A GREAT TEMPTATION BY DORA RUSSELL, CHAPTER I. A LETTER FROM THE DEAD. ' I wish you would tell me the truth,' said a girl, looking earnestly at the embarrassed face of a man standing before her. ' The truth is often very painful, Miss Ingram,' he answered, with down- cast eyes. * Still I should rather hear it. You VOL. I. A 2 A Great Temptation. say my poor father has left very little behind him. What do you mean by little?' Again there was a painful pause Ñ painful to the lawyer, George Gifford, who was unwilling to wound his listener; painful to the girl whose future depended on his words. But after a moment or two of silence she looked up impatiently. ' Do speak ! ' she said. < Well,' replied Mr Gifford, slowly, ' as far as I can ascertain, after the Major's debts are paid, and you wish this done Ñ ' Certainly.' ' There will be very little left Ñ some three hundred pounds, not more.' ' Three hundred pounds ! ' repeated the girl, also slowly, and a thought- A Letter from the Dead. 3 ful expression passed over her face. ' I can live for a year on that.' * Yes, perhaps a year.' 1 And in a year I shall have done something! Your news is not worse than I expected, Mr Gifford, after the reckless way my poor father lived during the last years of his life. I knew he was very much in debt, and often begged him to be more economi- cal Ñ but it was no use.' And the girl gave a restless sigh. ' It was very unfortunate,' said Mr Gifford, gravely, and a kindly, almost a tender expression stole into his eyes as he spoke. He was a man of about thirty- three years of age, and fairly good-looking. His father, Mr Gifford, senior, was, and had been for half a century, the 4 A Great Temptation. principal lawyer of the country town of Suffold, in the Midlands, where this conversation took place. George Gifford, the speaker, was his father's partner, and only son, and the Giffords were supposed to be people in good circumstances, and were, in consequence, very generally esteemed. The girl Ñ the client standing before George Gifford, listening to the unsatis- factory state of her circumstances, was a young woman of twenty-two. A young woman tall and well formed, with an expressive, handsome face, and a proud and distinguished bearing. But what struck you most about Laura Ingram was a certain flash and light in her dark eyes that told of mental power of rare development. No ordinary girl this, you felt, as A Letter from the Dead. 5 she stood there hearing of her poverty without flinching ; and her bravery touched a responsive note in George Gifford's heart. ' It is very little,' he said. 1 Yes ; but enough to keep me from starving until I can make my own living,' replied Laura Ingram. * But Ñ ' hesitated the lawyer, ' what do you think of doing ? It is so difficult for women to make their way, and a girl brought up as you have been Ñ ' ¥ I know, but I mean to try.' George Gifford did not speak for a moment or two. He crossed the room restlessly ; he stood looking out of the window at the deserted garden below, where the nipping breezes of late October had thinned the leaves 6 A Great Temptation. and smote with a destroying hand the fading flowers. * Miss Ingram Ñ Laura,' he said at length, looking round and fixing his eyes on the handsome, resolute face of the tall girl, standing in her long black gown by the fire, thinking of her future fate ; ' there is something I wish to say to you. It may be too soon Ñ but still Ñ ' 4 What is it, Mr Gifford ? ' answered Laura Ingram, calmly. ' It is this/ and George Gifford turned from the window and went to the hearth, ' I can't bear to think of you doing anything ; of you going out alone into the world. Do not go ! I have a home to offer you, and I offer it to you with all my heart.' 'You mean Ñ ' and Laura Ingram's A Letter from the Dead. 7 face flushed, and then grew a little pale. c I mean will you be my wife ? ' and George Gifford took her hand. ' My father, I know, will be pleased to wel- come you at Red House. He wishes me to marry, and since my poor mother's death we have both felt the sad want of a woman's presence at home. If you will come Ñ ' but some- thing in her face here made him pause. ' It is very kind of you, Mr Gifford/ she said, gravely, and she gently with- drew her hand from his as she spoke ; ' more than kind to speak such words to an almost penniless girl like me Ñ but it cannot be/ 1 But why ? ' asked George Gifford, eagerly. 8 A Great Temptation. 1 Because I mean to try a different life than the one I could lead here. You have offered me a comfortable home, and, I am sure, a good hus- band, but I do not wish to stay at Suffold. 1 Do Ñ you dislike me ? ' said George Gifford, with faltering lips. 1 On the contrary, I like you better than anyone I know. But I am not fit, Mr Gifford, for a life in a country town. I chafe and fret here! I want to see the world and the great people in it ; I want, in fact, to live, and not to vegetate.' * But, my poor girl, how can you do that on three hundred pounds ? ' ' Of course I cannot. The three hundred pounds will pay my way until I do something else.' A Letter from the Dead. 9 ' But think of the struggle Ñ a struggle of which you know nothing Ñ before either man or woman succeeds in a profession they have to make. It is different step- ping into a business made by your father, as I have done ; but the truth is, every- thing untried has to be fought for in the world.' ' I mean to fight,' answered Laura, with a smile. ' But what do you mean to try ? ; 1 1 can write, I can paint, and there is the stage always open to me.' ' The stage ! Surely you would not go on the stage!' 'Why not, Mr Gifford ? It's better reciting the thoughts of great minds, in my opinion, than listening to and answering the thoughts of small ones. Here the people talk of the most trivial io A Great Temptation. things! Who dined with the other; what they had for dinner; the fights with their servants. Now, is it not so?' * Yet these great minds you talk of no doubt also fight, or fought with their servants.' Laura laughed. 6 Perhaps so,' she said ; ' they were, or are, human, and servants are so aggravating. But they have other and loftier themes, and I want to hear really clever people talk, and to see them/ 'You will be disappointed.' ' Please do not try to disenchant me!' 6 Then you mean, I suppose, to go to London ? ' 4 Yes.' A Letter from the Dead. 1 1 'And have you any friends there? Any introductions?' ' Not one ! ' ' Miss Ingram Ñ may I say Laura Ñ forgive me, but it is most rash.' ' You must always run risks to gain anything. I mean to try, Mr Gifford, and if I failÑ' 'At least promise to let me know. Will you promise to remember that whether you fail or succeed, you have a sincere friend in a despised county town ? ' 'You are very kind!' she answered, and for a moment her face softened, and she held out her hand, which Gifford took. ' I will promise,' she went on, faintly smiling, 'to let you know if I succeed, but Ñ ' 'No, no ; in failure I might be, I 12 A Great Temptation. could be, of some use to you ; and I entreat you do not let any foolish pride prevent your applying to me.' Again her face softened. She looked at the good-looking man at her side ; the man with his earnest truth-telling eyes fixed on her face. A half doubt stole into her heart. She knew very well he loved her ; knew a honourable home would be hers if she chose to accept it. But on the other hand Ñ ' I do not love him ; I could not do my duty ; I would weary of my life,' she whispered to her heart. And these thoughts, as they passed swiftly through her brain, decided her. 4 It is very good of you to say so,' she said, still half smiling, ' and if I am driven to desperation, if I am A Letter from the Dead. 13 thinking of blowing out my brains, or jumping into the Thames, I will remember Ñ my friend in the country town.' He pressed her hand ; his lips quivered, and then he turned away. 'Thank you,' he said briefly, and a moment or two later he left the room and the house, and Laura Ingram was alone. * Poor fellow ! ' she thought ; ' but it would never do.' Yet she felt sorry ; sorry to have given pain, though she did not wish her words unsaid. She was ambitious, but not with mean ambitions ; she felt, in fact, as she had told him, that a life in a country town would never satisfy the cravings of her heart. Still she liked George Gifford ; 14 A Great Temptation. but liking is not love. One is as the stream gurgling on its placid way ; the other the deep sea in its resistless force. This meeting took place late in the afternoon, and soon after dark a letter with an enclosure was brought to Miss Ingram from Mr Gifford. She knew his handwriting, and opened it quickly and with interest. The en- velope contained a letter and a key, the letter consisting of the following words : Ñ ' Dear Miss Ingram, Ñ During our meeting this afternoon I forgot to return to you the key of your poor father's escritoire, with which you in- trusted me so that I might examine his papers. I regret deeply that I A Letter from the Dead. 15 could not give a more favourable account of his affairs than I did, and I have arranged his liabilities (as far as these papers acquainted me with them) in one packet, and his assets in another, and it would be well that you should look them over. There is also in the escritoire a sealed letter addressed to yourself, which, of course, I left untouched. 1 1 need scarcely repeat to you what I said to-day, yet I will do so ; which is, that if ever you re- quire a friend I hope you will not forget a very sincere one. And I remain always, Ñ Yours faithfully, 1 Geo. Gifford.' Laura Ingram read this letter sit- ting by the fire, where it had been 1 6 A Great Temptation. brought to her, and then rose hastily. 1 A sealed letter,' she repeated half aloud ; and then she began to think of her father and his last years and days. A strange, gloomy and eccentric man had been this Major Ingram, who had passed away from his earthly troubles some three months ago, and left his young daughter alone in the world. Laura never could understand her father, nor account for his habitual morose- ness. Yet he had given her a good education, and afterwards brought her to an uncongenial home. He was not rich, and had never been rich, yet he was careless about money, and his ex- penditure had always exceeded his in- come. The consequence was debts and unpleasantness of all sorts, and when A Letter from the Dead. 1 7 Laura had ventured to remonstrate, Major Ingram had answered testily, Ñ ' What matter is it ? ' And thus things had drifted on until the summons came he was forced to heed. He died as he had lived, and only his young daughter shed tears by the dead man's side. She had not loved him, but he was her father, and she had never before wit- nessed the last struggles of a part- ing soul. It was not a peaceful death- bed ; some grim memories seemed to haunt the dying Major, and he had cried out more than once, as if ad- dressing an invisible presence whom he still defied. All this had left a very painful im- pression on Laura Ingram's mind, and she had shrank from going into his vol. 1. B 1 8 A Great Temptation. affairs, and had deputed her father's lawyers, the Giffords, to do so. Old Mr Gifford rarely left his home, and therefore George Gifford had acted in the matter, and had thus been thrown a good deal with Laura, whom he already pitied and admired. But after reading his letter Laura felt that she must face the painful duty that lay before her. She must read her father's last letter, and she therefore lit a candle for the pur- pose of proceeding to his room. She was alone in the house, except one servant, and she slightly shuddered as she went up the chill, silent staircase. Then she came to the locked door of the room where the Major had died. She had brought the key up with her, and she shuddered again as A Letter from the Dead. 19 she placed it in the lock. She turned it, and entered the dark room be- yond. A sort of superstitious feeling crept over her, but still she went on. She placed the candle on the table, and approached the escritoire, and stood looking at it. It was of some dark wood, and brass bound. It bore the marks of age and travel, and looked a fit receptacle for hidden things. The girl turned pale, and glanced somewhat fearfully round the room, lit by the faint and fitful candle light. There seemed to her excited imagi- nation to be a shadow in one corner ; a reflection, doubtless, of the heavy window curtains, the next moment she told herself. She pulled herself to- gether ; she unlocked the escritoire, 20 A Great Temptation. she went for the candle to examine its contents. These consisted of two packets of letters, neatly labelled in George Gif- ford's handwriting, with which she was familiar. ' Unpaid bills,' was on one. ' Assets,' on the other. Laura scarcely- glanced at these. Her eyes were fixed on a large envelope in the centre, ad- dressed to herself. ' For my daughter Laura ; to be opened after I am dead.' This was the letter Mr Gifford had told her of. She hastily put out her hand and snatched it up. She placed the candle on the ledge of the escritoire, and tore it open. She read the first lines, and a cry escaped her quivering lips. She read on, and her face grew white with A Letter from the Dead. 21 horror, her eyes dilated, and her breath came short. ' My God ! it cannot Ñ it cannot be ! ' she muttered. Yes, there, in her fathers handwriting Ñ there, lying before her, was the hideous secret of his life, the damning self-evidence of his sin ! Again Laura cried out ; she put her hand to her face ; and in doing so must have touched the ledge of the escritoire, for suddenly the candle fell from it on the floor, and the light was extinguished in doing so. She was a brave girl ; she was in complete darkness, but she was one of those whose courage rise in an emer- gency, and with swift, sure footsteps, she at once left the room, going to her own, which was on the same landing, 22 A Great Temptation. carrying the letter she had just read in her hand. She was going for a fresh light, which she quickly procured, and then again she read the letter from the dead; the words that had blanched her face, and left an indelible shadow on her heart. CHAPTER II, FIRST WORDS. A month later Laura Ingram was sitting, one sunny day early in the afternoon, at her easel in the National Gallery, copying with no unequal hand that masterpiece, to those who love his kind, ' A Distinguished Member of the Humane Society.' She was sketching the grand head, the proud, sagacious eyes, and was so absorbed in her work that she never 23 24 A Great Temptation. noticed that she had attracted the attention of a young man Ñ not one of the students Ñ who was standing a little behind her watching her supple fingers, and admiring the profile of her face. This girl in black, with her fine form and resolute expression, seemed to this young man to be unlike, some- how, any other of her sex that he had ever seen. He had looked on fairer women, but Laura Ingram, with her clear brown skin, and straight dark brows, and clever eyes, was to him as one apart. He stood behind her unnoticed for a few minutes, and then moved on, glancing carelessly at the other groups of students, and stopping to admire a picture here and there, for he was a great lover of art, and First Words. 25 then he returned to watch the stranger painting the noble dog. She never raised her head. He was in front of her now, and could see her full face more distinctly, and he read there, as he looked with those keen eyes of his, that there was a shadow on her heart. He saw her lips quiver once, and an impatient sigh, which she checked, rose on her lips. She inter- ested him greatly. He was a student of human nature, and this clever face caught his fancy. He began specu- lating about her in his mind. Was she a love-lorn damsel, he asked him- self with a smile, or did some hus- band of her youth lie in his untimely grave ? He lingered about the galleries till closing time came, and he watched the 26 A Great Temptation. black-robed figure still, and saw her consign her canvas to one of the attend- ants, and then put on her hat, fasten some rich fur round her throat, and leave the Gallery. He made haste to follow her. She descended the steps outside still without looking round ; she hailed a cab, and she was gone. ' But next students' day I will see her, I suppose, if I come Ñ but what folly it is,' he thought, and he smiled cynically. He was tall and dark, with a face some might call good-looking, some plain. A powerful face, thin and lined, and pale, and yet he was young. Per- haps seven-and-twenty at the utmost, and he looked a man of strong feelings and masterful will. First Words. 27 He walked round one side of Trafal- gar Square Ñ he was going to meet a friend at one of the hotels in Nor- thumberland Avenue Ñ but still this girl's clear-cut, proud face haunted him. ' I must find out who she is,' at last he decided, and when he made up his mind about anything he was not one to change. Accordingly, the next students' day at the Gallery found him once more in the vicinity of Laura Ingram's easel. Again he looked at her graceful, bent head and oval cheek, which he could see from where he stood, but again with the same result. She took not the slightest notice of him ; in fact, never noticed him, and the effect of this was that he became more anxious still to see something more of her. 28 A Great Temptation. The way he effected this must now be told. On the third working day after he had first seen her, Laura found, on her arrival at the Gallery, on going up to the picture she was copying, that another student had also set up his easel there, and was apparently busily engaged in copying the noble dog. He was a dark young man, and he said something courteous on the attendant placing Laura's easel, that he hoped he was not in her way. She answered gravely and courteously, also, that he was not in the least. And then, without another word, settled to her work. An hour passed, and she never once looked at anything except the picture and her canvas. The dark First Words. 29 young man also worked, and made a quick and masterly sketch, but he also found time to look very often at his handsome neighbour. But she was apparently unconscious of this, and at last this had such an irritating effect on his temper that he rose hastily, and, either by design or accident, passed so close to Laura's easel that he touched it, and Laura naturally looked up. 6 1 beg your pardon, a thousand pardons,' he said. ' I am ashamed of my stupidity.' 'You have luckily done no harm,' answered Laura, with a smile. 1 I hope not ; may I look at your work ? ' ' Certainly.' The young man stood for a few 30 A Great Temptation. moments and looked at Laura's copy critically. Then he looked at the girl herself. ' You are an artist, I perceive ? ' he said. ' 1 wish to be one, at least.' ' Then your wish will soon be real- ised. This is a splendid copy as far as it has gone, and you have chosen a fine subject.' 'It is one that interests me/ said Laura, looking also critically at her work, and moving a little back so that she could get a better view. 'You are a lover of animals then, I presume, and of dogs in par- ticular.' ' I love and pity all animals ; their wrongs are one of the miseries of my life.' First Words. 31 ' Well, I own to a strong desire to lay a horsewhip over the shoulders of some of the brutes who ill-treat them. But I am stopping your work, I trust you will forgive my awkward- ness in accidentally touching your easel.' He raised his hat as he spoke, and Laura bowed gravely, and then he moved away, nor did he return to his easel while she was there. His face had rather interested her; it was so strong, so intellectual, and his eyes were full of thought. ' 1 wonder if he is an artist ? ' she reflected, and before she left the Gallery she went round and looked at his unfinished sketch. Every line told how well he knew his work. Laura began to be dis- 32 A Great Temptation. satisfied with her own copy after looking at his. ' I wonder if he will finish it,' she thought, and a day or two later she found that he intended to do so. She found him, in fact, at work when she arrived at the Gallery, and he took off his hat and bowed when Laura approached her easel. In common courtesy she returned this, and thus an acquaintance was estab- lished between them. But he did not intrude on this. He saw this proud, self-contained girl was not one to rush lightly into an intimacy with a stranger. He allowed her quite time enough to get accustomed to him ; to exchange a few words with him, and not to be afraid that he would encroach because she permitted him to speak to her. First Words. 33 And thus gradually the barriers were broken down between them, and still they did not know each other's names. But one day he asked her rather a personal question. ' Are you a Londoner ? ' he said. Laura shook her head. * No/ she answered, ' I come from a country town in the Midlands.' ' A country town,' he repeated, smil- ing ; ' and what is life like in a country town ? ' * Dreary and stupid in the extreme ; at least I thought so.' 1 The young ladies, I presume, make an idol of the curate.' * There was not even that source of amusement at my country town, for the curate was married.' 1 Then what did you do ? ' VOL. I. C 4 34 A Great Temptation. ' I tried to do a lot of things. I tried to write, to paint, to sing. I never meant to remain in the place. I had no interest there, except Ñ ' ' I presume some relative, some parent ? ' ' Yes,' answered Laura, and the young man, looking at her, saw her face sud- denly grow pale ; ' my father lived there, and at his death I came here.' 1 Forgive me if I have mentioned a painful subject/ Laura did not answer. She bent her head lower over her canvas, and her lips quivered, but she made no other sign of pain or grief. Then pre- sently the young man began to speak of other things. He asked what she had written, and if she had had anything published. I First Words, 35 ' No, I have not,' said Laura. ' Have you tried ? ' * Yes, I have tried.' 1 It's always dificult at first ; I wonder if I could help you ? I know a fellow who is editor of one of the society magazines ; in fact, I know two men who have some influence. Shall I try ? ' ' It is very kind of you, and I should feel very grateful ; of course an intro- duction is so much.' ' Not always,' answered the dark young man, with a smile. ' But will you bring one of your stories here Ñ I presume they are stories that you write ? ' ' Yes.' ' And I will try to find a landing- place for it. If you write as well as you paint you will do.' 36 A Great Temptation. ' 1 shall be very pleased if it is so, for it is necessary I should do some- thing to earn my own living,' added Laura, with a sort of proud humility. The young man made no remark on this communication. He began to talk of literature, and Laura perceived he was well and extensively read, and that his taste was good. ' I ought to tell you my name,' he said, suddenly ; ' it is Wood- land Ñ Ralph Woodland. May I ask yours ? ' ' I am called Laura Ingram,' answered Laura, with a quick blush. 'Then, Miss Ingram, if you will bring me one of your stories on Fri- day, I will see what I can do with it' First Words. $7 ' Thank you very much. And now I think I must go.' 1 Let me escort you outside, and first give your work in charge. It was raining tremendously when I came in.' 1 But I am giving you so much trouble.' ' Not at all. Ah, here is the fellow who will take care of your picture. Now we can go/ They walked through the Galleries together ; Laura, like all young authors, naturally anxious to please anyone who was going to try to dispose of one of her stories. And when they got outside they found it was blowing a tempest, and raining in torrents, mingled with sleet. ' What a fearful day/ said Laura. ' 1 must get a cab.' 38 A Great Temptation. 1 No, let me drive you home in my brougham ; it is waiting down there. You would get wet in a cab. ' Oh, thanks ; but I should rather go in a cab.' ' Let me over-persuade you. Come,' and he offered her his hand to assist her down the wet and slippery steps, and as he did so a neat and well- appointed brougham drew up at the base. But Laura shrank back. * Indeed, I should rather go in a cab,' she said. 1 Oh, no, let me hand you in. Where shall I drive you ? ' ' I lodge in Maddox Street, off Regent Street,' answered Laura, who was beginning to be afraid of thus First Words, 39 being taken possession of against her will. 1 Maddox Street,' cried her com- panion to the coachman, who touched his hat. ' Yes, Sir Ralph,' he answered. Laura heard this, and looked round inquiringly as she took her seat in the brougham, but 6 Sir Ralph ' made no remark. He drove her to Maddox Street, talking quietly on the way, and when they arrived at the house she directed him to, he left the brougham and handed Laura out. 'By-the-bye, I may as well give you my card,' he said, as they stood a moment or two on the pavement together after he had rung the house door bell. ' Thank you,' said Laura, as he pro- 40 A Great Temptation. duced his card-case and placed a card in her hand. Then he took off his hat and re-entered the brougham, and was driven away. When he had disappeared, and as Laura entered the narrow passage of the house she glanced at the card she held. On it was engraved Ñ SIR RALPH WOODLAND, Bart., Rathbourne Hall, Yorks. There was also his club in town, and so at length Laura knew who her acquaint- ance actually was. ' Sir Ralph Woodland/ she repeated over as she entered her small back sitting-room, for, though she was living in what is called ' a good neighbourhood,' her apartments were by no means either large or luxurious. She had gone to First Words. 41 this house because she had once been there with her father, and she had written to the people who kept it when she wished to leave SufTold, as they were the only rooms she knew any- thing of in town. She had told them she wished for two small rooms, and she had certainly got them. They both looked back, yet she paid highly for them, and was beginning to consider that she had better seek out a cheaper home. ' Woodland ! ' Where had she heard the name? Suddenly a flush rose to her face, and her hands began to tremble. In a corner of the room stood the brass-bound escritoire which had formerly been her father's, and which she had brought with her to London. She sought her keys ; she 42 A Great Temptation. unlocked it with strange interest, and once more drew out the letter which her father had left her to be read after his death. Again she opened it, and almost the same look of horror and pain spread over her face as when she had first read the dead man's words. Woodland ! The name occurred more than once in the closely-written pages ; a name loaded with bitter execrations by the writer. ' But for this scoundrel Woodland,' Laura read in one line. 'The accursed Woodland only met his just reward,' in another. Laura turned faint and cold. Could this dead Woodland be any relation of the live Woodland from whom she had just parted? It might be; there was at least a doubt, and this doubt filled First Words. 43 Laura's heart with a strange dread shrinking. ' I had better not see him any more,' she thought, 'and yet Ñ ' He was the one acquaintance she had made in town ; the one among the vast mul- titudes by whom she was surrounded. She had felt it inexpressibly dreary when she had first arrived. Almost bewildering, this rush of human life which knew no end. And then Sir Ralph Woodland had offered to try to find her an opening for her literary work. It was throwing away a chance which might not occur again if she did not see this young man any more. And, moreover, she liked him. There was something in his clever face which took her fancy. At all events, it ended in her going to the National Gallery 44 A Great Temptation. on Friday, as they had arranged, carry- ing the MS. of what she considered her best story with her. She was disappointed not to find Sir Ralph Woodland in his accus- tomed place, and sat down to her easel with a somewhat chill feeling in her heart. She looked round more than once, but still he did not ap- pear. She was beginning to think he did not mean to come, when she heard a quick footfall near her, and looking hastily up she saw him stand- ing by her side. Laura was conscious that she blushed, and that her manner was confused. 1 Good morning, Miss Ingram,' said Sir Ralph, holding out his hand. c Well, have you brought the story ? ' First Words. 45 ' Yes,' answered Laura, with some nervousness. ' That is right. I asked my editor friend to dinner yesterday for the pur- pose of softening his heart.' Laura smiled brightly. ' You may smile, but we are all influenced by these small attentions, even when we perceive their motive. My editor doubtless saw through mine, as I had never asked him to dinner before ; yet it made him more genial. He promised, in fact, to read your story, and to consider it favourably Ñ if he could.' ' Ah Ñ if he could ! ' said Laura, quickly. 'There is always an "if," you know, in these things. But,' and he glanced at Laura's copy as he spoke, 'you have 46 A Great Temptation. not been working very hard to-day, I see ? ' 'No, indeed, I have not; I have been thinking Ñ well, of the fate of my story.' ' Suppose you take a holiday to-day, then, and let us walk together through the galleries for a while.' Laura felt it would be wiser not to go, but the temptation proved to strong for her. She, however, hesitated ; but Sir Ralph, in that masterful way of his, did not seem to perceive this. He led her from gallery to gallery, point- ing out as they went what most struck his fancy. He was clever. There was a sort of graphic picturesqueness in his phrases which pleased Laura's ears, though he aimed at no effect. He had travelled, and spoke of what he First Words. 47 had seen easily and well, and alto- gether was undoubtedly an agreeable companion when it pleased him to be so. The time passed swiftly for Laura, but suddenly she looked up quickly and eagerly in his face. ' Have you/ she said, with a sort of nervous anxiety in her voice which she could not suppress, 'ever been in India?' ' How strange that you should ask me that question,' answered Sir Ralph, smiling. ' Is there anything oriental in my appearance except my dark skin? Yes, I have been in India; my early days were spent there ; but on my father's tragic death I returned to England.' 'Tragic?' repeated Laura, in a low, 48 A Great Temptation. sharp tone of pain, and her face paled. 'Yes. He was supposed to be murdered Ñ but it is a painful subject, let us change it.' Laura said nothing more. But her interest in the pictures and her com- panions conversation visibly flagged, and a few minutes later she proposed to leave the Gallery. ' I will see you home, then,' said Sir Ralph, quietly, and he did, though Laura scarcely made any answer to this offer, and spoke but little on their way to Maddox Street. But when they reached it, their arrival there created quite a little sensation. Two young ladies were looking out of the drawing-room windows of the house where Laura lived, watching First Words. 49 their luggage being carried in, for they were new arrivals, and when Sir Ralph and Laura neared the door they both instantly recognised Sir Ralph. ' Why, Patty ! ' cried one, ' look, there is Ralph Woodland!' 'So it is,' answered the other, ex- citedly. 'Who is the girl, I wonder, he is with ? See, she is coming in here. Can she live here? Really, this is very funny that we should see him on the very first day.' ' He is not coming in. They are shaking hands. Well, we must find out all about the girl.' vol. 1. CHAPTER III. PATTY. The two young ladies who had such a strong interest in the unexpected appearance of Sir Ralph Woodland were both good-looking girls, the one bearing the name of ' Patty ' consider ing herself, and being sometimes con- sidered, a beauty. They were half - sisters, and their names Patrica and Ella May. They were the daughters of the late Colonel May, and had been sent, when young 50 Patty. 5 1 girls, from India by their father to his only sister, Mrs Phillips, who was the widow of a country clergyman. Mrs Phillips, who had no children, was only too delighted to receive the two lively Anglo-Indians, who bright- ened her home by their prattle, and altogether cheered her life. Her husband, the Rev. John Phillips, had died a year before her nieces ar- rived, but she had continued to live in the vicarage at Laytonside by the favour of the patron of the living, Sir Ralph Woodland, who had been a pupil in the days of his boyhood of the late vicar. The present vicar, Mr Snowe, was an unmarried man, and preferred living in rooms to the cares of a household. This arrangement, therefore, suited both Mrs Phillips and 52 A Great Temptation. Mr Snowe, and it lasted for six years, and only ended at Mrs Phillips' death. In the meanwhile the two pretty girls at the vicarage had caused a good deal of gossip in the village of Laytonside. A struggling village this, with a green in the centre, and three or four good houses standing back from it. The doctor lived in one of these, and had two ordinary - looking daughters, who did not admire the Anglo-Indians, and thought them what they called 'forward.' But if the Misses Williams did not admire them, the vicar, Mr Snowe, did. He was a good- looking man, portly, comely and rosy, and he fell a victim, almost from the first time he saw her, to the charms of Patrica (Patty) May. She was, in truth, an attractive young Patty. 53 woman, with her tall, slender, well- made form, her abundant golden hair, and her fairly pretty features. Her nose had a little tilt at the end, which Mr Snowe thought perfection, but which her enemies did not. ' She is always trying to attract men,' the Misses Williams said, and, it must be admitted, with some truth. When, therefore, one day the young landlord of the greater part of Lay- tonside, and the owner of Rathbourne Hall Ñ the big house standing about a mile from the village Ñ called on the widow of his old tutor, Mrs Phillips, at the vicarage, Patty felt she was no longer wasting her time. Sir Ralph Woodland had been abroad for the three years that the girls had already lived with their aunt 54 A Great Temptation. when he appeared, and thus he had never seen, nor indeed heard of them. But they had heard of him, and their aunt had often talked of him, and wondered when he would return. When he was ushered into the old-fashioned drawing-room, therefore, his surprise was great to find a handsome, yellow- haired girl sitting by the open win- dow, reading a novel, instead of the white-capped widow he expected to see. But Patty was quite equal to the occasion. She rose from her lowly seat by the window with the supple grace which was one of her charms, and bowed smilingly. 1 Sir Ralph Woodland ? ' she said. 1 My aunt, I know, will be charmed to see you ; she has often spoken of you.' Patty. 55 Sir Ralph bowed, and looked, also smilingly, at the gracious blue-clad figure before him. 4 Then,' he said, 'you are Mrs Phillips' niece ? ' 6 Yes, Patrica May,' answered Patty ; 'you have been so long away, Sir Ralph, that you do not know any- thing that has happened here for absolutely years ! Do you know that my sister and I have lived, or rather been buried, here already for three years ! ' 'Then may I ask,' replied Sir Ralph, ' where you lived before you were buried ? ' Patty laughed sweetly, and flung back her shapely head. ' In India,' she said ; ' but my sister took fever, and then my poor father died, so here we had to stay.' 56 A Great Temptation. 1 And you find it very dull ? ' ' I should think so ! A country village ! ' ' Well, certainly Laytonside is not a very lively place.' 'It is simply awful ; and then the little quarrels and jealousies ! All the women here hate me, Sir Ralph ! ' ' I do not wonder at that' Again Patty laughed. ' Ah, I see,' she said, ' you under- stand things. I hope you Ñ but here is my aunt.' The widow entered at this moment, and warmly welcomed the young man, who had been her husband's pupil, and who had allowed her to live rent free so long. * This is my niece, Patrica May,' she said, introducing Patty. ' My poor Patty. 57 dear brother, Colonel May, died very suddenly in India, and his girls were with me when it happened, and now this is their home ; they are a great comfort to me.' ' I am sure they must be,' an- swered Sir Ralph, and for a moment his eyes rested on Patty's face with a look of suppressed amusement, which she quite understood. Such was the beginning of an acquaint- ance which had gone on nearly three years, when Patty and Ella May recog- nised Sir Ralph Woodland from the windows of the house in Maddox Street, just as he was parting with Laura Ingram. It was an acquaintance which for a time flourished vigorously, and then the young man cooled, and finally again 58 A Great Temptation. went abroad, and only occasionally appeared at Rathbourne Hall. He had admired Patrica May at first, and Patrica had decided to be Lady Woodland, but she over-shot her mark. She, in fact, was too frank, and made Sir Ralph feel that he had no need to woo, and he was not a man to be won by such advances. So he went away, and when he was away Patty amused herself with the vicar, to the disgust of the rest of his female parishioners. But she had no idea of becoming Mrs Snowe, and be ' cutting out flannel petticoats for the poor all my life,' she confided to her sister Ella. ' I am sure Sir Ralph likes me,' she also confided ; ' there must be something prevents his proposing to me ; but I Patty. 59 believe it will all come right in the end.' She, in fact, never gave up the idea. Sir Ralph came and went away ; and then, as time progressed, her aunt, Mrs Phillips, died, and the home at the vicarage of Laytonside was broken up. Mr Snowe again and again asked Patty to become its mistress and remain there, but Patty always sweetly declined. 1 I am not good enough to be a clergyman's wife,' she said, looking gently in the vicar's face, as if she regretted her shortcomings. It was her nature, in fact, to try to please every man she came near. Even the doctor's ugly little son was smiled upon by Patty May when no one else was by. And 60 A Great Temptation, when, after their aunt's death, it was found that both the girls were left fairly well off, young Mr Williams proposed to Patty, as well as the vicar. But she would have none of him. She had made up her mind, and meant to carry out her purpose. Sir Ralph Woodland was living at this time in town, and to town Fatty meant to go. The vicar bought the furniture at the vicarage just as it stood, and this put a little additional ready money into Patty's pocket, and she intended to spend it. They had, moreover, about two hundred a year each, and were thus able to live where they pleased. Patty, however, did not quarrel with her admirers at Laytonside. She left the vicar with the impression that she Patty. 6 1 would return, and looked softly also at young Mr Williams when she parted with him. Then the two girls started for London, and on the first day of their arrival there saw the very person whom they had gone to seek. They watched Sir Ralph Woodland part with Laura Ingram in the street below, and then Patty hastily, and in a state of great excitement, rang the room bell. This was answered in a moment or two by the smart little maid of the establishment. 'Who is that young lady that has just come in ? ' asked Patty. 4 Oh, miss, that is Miss Ingram,' answered the maid. 1 Does she live here ? ' went on Patty. 62 A Great Temptation. 'Yes, miss, she does; she has the back parlour and the back bed- room.' ' And Ñ does anyone come to see her?' inquired Patty, with heightened colour. ' Any gentlemen ? ' ' No, miss ; she's one of the hartist sort, I think, and paints or writes all day. Once a gentleman brought her 'ome in a carriage, though.' 'Ah Ñ ' said Patty, and she drew a long breath, and when the maid was gone she turned to her sister Ella. ' Where can he have picked her up?' she said. Ella May was not so striking-looking as Patty, nor were her characteristics so marked. She was two years younger, and the daughter of a dif- ferent mother. But still there was a Patty. 63 sort of resemblance between them, for they had both abundant fair hair, the bright golden tint of which was pro- duced by art ; they had also pretty much the same views of life, meaning to do well in it, and looking at it from no very elevated standpoint. ' It was certainly Ralph Woodland,' said Ella, in answer to her sister's remark. ' No doubt about it/ replied Patty, decidedly. 'We must get to know this girl, Ella ; must pick up her ac- quaintance somehow.' 'How can we do that?' 1 Oh, run up against her on the stairs Ñ anyhow ! We must do it, and then through her we will get hold of Sir Ralph. Perhaps,' added Patty, thoughtfully, ' she has stood in the 64 A Great Temptation. way all this time Ñ I always thought it might be some woman.' ' Perhaps. She seemed good - look- ing.' ' She was dark, wasn't she ? Well, dark or fair, she sha'n't have Ralph Woodland, if I can help it.' The girl whom these two free-spoken young women were discussing was, in the meanwhile, standing in her back sitting-room with a pained and very strained expression on her face. She also was thinking of Sir Ralph Wood- land ; thinking of his father's tragic death, and of the dark suspicion which haunted her own mind concerning it. ' And he is so kind, so clever,' she reflected wistfully ; ' taking so much trouble about my story Ñ it is very sad Ñ if Ñ it be true; but it may not be.' Patty. 65 And she sighed. Then she sat down and tried to compose another story, but somehow she could not concentrate her mind to her work. She was restless and excited, and in no mood to create joys and sorrows, when her own heart was so disturbed and ill at ease. Presently she rose and began walk- ing slowly up and down the little room with her hands clasped loosely together at her back. ' There might be a hundred Wood- lands,' she was telling herself; but the dark face of the Woodland she knew seemed to haunt her. His thoughts did, most certainly. He had left her unwillingly, and as he proceeded to the publisher's office, to which he meant to take her manuscript, his mind vol. 1. E 66 A Great Temptation. was dwelling on her the whole time. 1 A noble face, 5 he was telling him- self ; * I wonder what made her brow so suddenly cloud, and her manner change ? Can she care for anyone ? She is a woman who could care most deeply, I am certain. Well, he'll be a lucky fellow, whoever it is. A woman like that is worth winning, worth wooing ; not like the girls who make a rush at one if you say a civil word to them.' And Sir Ralph thought a little scorn- fully at this moment of Miss Patty May. Then presently he reached the office for which he was bound. He had written articles for the magazine which was published here Ñ articles clever, concise, and always readable Ñ and he was well received by rather a good-looking, Patty. 67 well-dressed young man, who was the editor, but whose face, nevertheless, did not show much intellectual ability. But Mr Valentine Ross was essentially what is called ' smart.' Quick to perceive power in others, to seek them out, and not pay over highly for their work. He knew, in fact, what he was about, and steered his course fairly successfully. 'Ah, Sir Ralph,' he said, rising from his seat, with outstretched hand, ' so you are bringing me the story by the fair authoress you told me of last night?' 1 The lady cannot be called a fair authoress ; she is dark/ replied Sir Ralph, a little grimly. 1 But handsome ? Don't tell me she is not, my good friend ! ' laughed Mr Valentine Ross. ' I know you ; a plain 68 A Great Temptation. woman's scribblings would never have weighed down your coat-pocket.' ' But I don't expect they are scrib- blings ; the young lady is decidedly clever.' ' But they all think they are clever, and the rot I have sent here for my approval is simply appalling. However, let me have the story, and for your sake, if I can publish it, I will.' 'Thanks, very much,' said Sir Ralph, producing from his coat - pocket the neat roll of manuscript that had cost Laura Ingram so much time and trouble. Mr Valentine Ross untied the string, and read the first few lines. ' Doesn't seem altogether bad/ he said, critically. ' 1 am sure you will not find it alto- Patty. 69 gether bad. She is a girl with a great deal of mental power, and paints also remarkably well/ 'Do you mean her face?' smiled Mr Ross, looking up. Sir Ralph felt unreasonably angry, though with that power of restraint which he had over his feelings he did not show this. 'No/ he said, quietly ; * not her face, but her canvas.' 'For my own part,' replied the smil- ing, fair-complexioned young man before him, * I like women who paint their faces; it shows such a desire to please us.' * Miss Ingram doesn't need paint, she has a clear, rather olive - tinted skin.' 1 1 declare, Woodland, I believe you jo A Great Temptation. are pretty far gone ! ' laughed Mr Ross. 'Well, suppose we leave sentiment and complexions and go to business/ said Sir Ralph. 'If you accept this story you will, of course, pay for it?' Mr Ross shrugged his shoulders. 1 Heaps of stories, my dear fellow, are published that are not worth paying for.' ' I am sure you will find this one will be worth paying for.' 1 All in good time, then. To please you, I will take it home to - night and look it over, and can let you know to-morrow what I think.' 1 Then I will call about this time to-morrow to hear your opinion,' said Sir Ralph, rising. ' Good-bye, Ross ; Patty. 7 1 much obliged for the trouble you have taken.' ' Always glad to do anything for a friend,' smiled Mr Ross, taking the hand that was extended to him, and pressing it warmly. ' Will be glad to see you to-morrow, Woodland.' But scarcely had the door closed behind Sir Ralph when Mr Valentine Ross openly yawned. 'What a bore it is,' he said, half aloud. 'Well, such is life.' CHAPTER IV. FIRST EARNINGS. The next day, however, Mr Ross again received Sir Ralph in the most friendly- fashion. He was a young man, in truth, who liked to be on pleasant terms with those who held a certain position in the world. Sir Ralph was a baronet, was well off, and moved in good society when he cared to go into it, and Mr Valentine Ross re spected him accordingly. 1 Well/ he said, after shaking hands with him, ' it will do.' 72 First Earnings. 73 ' Miss Ingram's story ? ' inquired Sir Ralph, with unmistakable interest. ' Yes, Miss Ingram's story,' replied Mr Ross. ' It shows promise ; yes, decidedly promise.' 6 I'm glad,' said Sir Ralph heartily. * Yes, there is more in her than the clear olive skin, my friend,' continued Mr Ross, with that curious little laugh of his. ' I do not say she is a genius, but the young woman is clever/ ' I knew she was.' c Of course, she's got a good deal to learn. Novelists aren't ready made, you know. But they must have some- thing original to go upon or they'll do nothing. They can't learn it all, however hard they try, but still they have a lot to learn.' 1 1 suppose she'll soon pick it all up.' 74 A Great Temptation. ' Probably ; and now tell me who she is, and all about her ? ' Sir Ralph looked annoyed. ' She is a young lady for whom I have great respect,' he said. ' Will you publish her story soon, Ross?' * In a couple of months or so ; I'm full up till then/ ' And what will you pay for it ? ' ' Isn't it too soon to talk about that ? ' ' No ; I want to know.' Mr Ross began counting the pages of Laura Ingram's story, which was lying before him, and then the words in a page, and afterwards made a brief mental calculation, and then named a remarkably small price. ' That is very little,' said Sir Ralph, in a dissatisfied tone. First Earnings, 75 6 Our usual terms to new beginners, my dear fellow. Can't tell how they turn out ; and one bad story does a magazine harm.' ' I don't think this one will. 5 ' I hope not, but I can't tell. Come, Woodland, not many young women get their stories accepted the first time they offer them ; and but for your sake, my friend, I'll tell you candidly, I should never have looked at it' 1 Very well,' said Sir Ralph, after a moment's consideration. ' But we must have better terms for the next, Ross.' ' Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof,' answered Ross, with an affected sigh. Sir Ralph laughed a short laugh, and soon afterwards left the office, and, call- ing a cab, drove in the direction of J 6 A Great Temptation. Laura Ingram's rooms. And as he went on his way he also made a small mental calculation. The money which Mr Ross had proposed to give for Laura's story was unequal money, Mr Ross paying so much a page. It came to under five pounds, but Sir Ralph decided he would make it straight. ' She will never know,' he thought, kindly, 'and it will please her to re- ceive her first earnings. Ross must pay me ; ' and he smiled, and his dark marked face looked almost hand- some as he did so. Then when he reached Maddox Street he left the cab, and was speedily ringing at the door of the house where Laura Ingram lived. Patty May, in the drawing-room, heard his ring, and ran to the win- First Earnings. jj dow, but was too late to see who it was. She, however, heard some- one enter the house, and hurried out of the room and went on the staircase, and looked over the ban- isters. There she saw Sir Ralph Woodland following the maid, who rapped at the back sitting-room door, which a moment later Sir Ralph entered. Patty's heart beat fast, and her cheeks grew pale. She really cared for Sir Ralph, though in the begin- ning she had cared chiefly for his title and fortune. But gradually Ñ as he drew back Ñ she had learnt to like the man himself, and was de- termined to win him. To see him, then, visiting another woman was not pleasant to Patty's feelings. 78 A Great Temptation. She laid a trembling hand on the banister ; she drew a long, quivering sigh. Then she recovered herself. Sir Ralph should not leave the house without speaking to her, Patty de- cided, if she remained on the land- ing of the staircase all day. Therefore Patty remained. The landlady passed her, and made some remark about the weather, which Patty answered, but did not stir. A quarter of an hour later the landlady came down from the upper part of the house and looked surprised when she found Miss May still stationary. But Patty was not a young woman to allow landladies, or any other ladies, to move her from her purpose. She was waiting to waylay Sir Ralph, and wait she did. First Earnings. 79 In the meantime, in the back sitting-room, Sir Ralph was telling Laura Ingram his news. She had been sitting writing when he was ushered in, and she rose with a smile and a charming blush to wel- come him. They shook hands, and then Sir Ralph made a sort of apology for calling. ' I hope you will forgive me for intruding on you without any invita- tion,' he said, ' but I have something to tell you.' i Yes ? ' said Laura, inquiringly, look- ing with her dark eyes at his face. * So I could not resist coming. Well, your story is accepted.' ' No ! Not really ? ' cried Laura, eagerly, and her faced flushed. 80 A Great Temptation. 'Yes, really,' he answered. I saw Mr Ross to-day, and he had read it, and spoke highly of it Ñ and here,' continued Sir Ralph, drawing a five- pound note from his pocket, and placing it in Laura's hand, 'are your first earnings.' Laura's face flushed more deeply still, and her bosom heaved. 1 I can scarcely believe it,' she said ; ' it cannot be true ? ' 'Nevertheless it is/ smiled Sir Ralph, ' and I have great pleasure in being the bearer to you of good news.' 'It is good news.' ' Besides, Ross spoke of it so favour- ably. It is very little money, cer- tainly.' 'It's a great deal to me.' And for a moment Laura's eyes grew First Earnings. 8 r a little dim with unshed tears. Then she turned her head away to hide this, and went to the window, and stood there looking out on the smoky walls. She felt so grateful ; and a strange emotion stirred in her heart. It was so good of Sir Ralph, she was think- ing, so good to take all this trouble, and also to come and tell her. ' I Ñ I have not thanked you,' she presently said, with faltering tongue, * but Ñ I am very grateful.' * It has been a pleasure to me to do anything for you, though this was such a little thing,' answered Sir Ralph. * And to pay so promptly,' con- tinued Laura. ' 1 do not understand it.' ' Oh, I admit I asked Ross for the VOL. I. f 82 A Great Temptation. money/ laughed Sir Ralph ; ' it's no good being too modest, and in two months it will be published. By-the- bye, will you use your own name, or a nom de plume ? ' ' I don't know ; what do you think ? 7 Sir Ralph hesitated; he! was of that order of mankind who rather shrink from any publicity for women ; at least women for whom they have any regard. It would make others talk of her, and know her. These were the thoughts which at this moment flashed through his mind, ' If you choose a nom de plume you must choose a pretty one/ he said. ' Or a manly one ? ' smiled Laura. ' But you are not manly, and I don't think your writings will be manly.' 'Yet,' said Laura, still smiling, 'at First Earnings, %$ Suffold, the country town I came from, I was, I believe, called strong-minded.' ' A terrible sobriquet ! ' * Rather a good one, I think, though, for a poor woman who has to make her way alone in the world.' ' You may not always be alone,' said Sir Ralph, without looking at her. 1 1 expect to be so, therefore I must cultivate the strong-mindedness. But about my nom de plume, how would J. Hill do ? The J. would stand either for a man or a woman, you know, and the Hill denotes stability,' and Laura laughed. Sir Ralph also laughed. 'It's not bad,' he said. 'Well, I hope J. Hill will be a great success/ 6 If he or she is/ answered Laura, speaking gaily, though with a little 84 A Great Temptation. tremor in her voice, * I shall owe it all to you.' 'No author owes all, or indeed much, to anyone. They stand or fall on their own merits.' After this Sir Ralph began to talk about books and book makers, and Laura sat interested and absorbed. Half an hour passed, three-quarters, and impatient Patty, on the landing of the staircase, kept stamping with rage. There was a frightful draught blowing on her head, and this added to the exasperation of her heart. But still she remained at her post. Then, as it was almost growing dark, she heard the handle of the door of the back sitting- room turn, and in a moment Patty hurried downstairs, and met Sir Ralph just as he emerged from Lauras room. First Earnings. 85 ' Sir Ralph ! ' she cried, breathlessly, with outstretched hand. 1 Miss May ! ' said Sir Ralph, utterly astonished, and by no means delighted. ' Yes,' answered Patty, volubly, ' we have come to live in town, you know, since poor aunt's death. We are stay- ing in this house ; isn't it funny we should meet ? ' And Patty smiled her most charming smile. * I heard poor Mrs Phillips was dead ; I was very sorry to hear it.' 1 Yes ; but you must come up to our room and hear all the news.' ' I am afraid not this afternoon,' said Sir Ralph, drawing out his watch. 1 Oh ! but you must, you must ! ? cried Patty, positively. 'What, do you think I am going to lose sight 86 A Great Temptation. of such an old friend without a word. Come up, now/ and Patty laid her pretty, slender hand per- suasively on his arm. Sir Ralph laughed and yielded ; and Patty led him in triumph up to the drawing-room, where he also found Ella May, who had been sitting in some anxiety, awaiting the result of Patty's long watch. ' Ella, here is Sir Ralph, ¥ said Patty ; ' isn't it strange I met him at the foot of the staircase ? ' ' Very strange ! ' said Ella, rising and shaking hands with Sir Ralph. 1 Now, please sit down,' continued Patty, addressing him, ' I've got such lots to tell you. But first of all tell me something. Do you know anyone staying in the house ? ' First Earnings. 87 * Yes, I have an acquaintance who is staying here,' replied Sir Ralph. ' There is a lady staying here, a Miss Ingram, a dark girl, is she your friend ? ' inquired Patty. 1 I know a Miss Ingram,' answered Sir Ralph, with a certain reserve in his tone, which Patty's sharp ears were quick to catch. 1 Oh ! how nice ! You must intro- duce us to her if she is a friend of yours, and living in the house,' said Patty. 1 I have only a slight acquaintance with her Ñ I scarcely should like,' hesi- tated Sir Ralph. * Oh ! Acquaintances are easily made and dropped in London I am told,' answered Patty, ' not like old friends ; ' and Patty's white eyelids fell over her 88 A Great Temptation. bright eyes. 'I'm so awfully glad to see you again, Sir Ralph. Ella, go and tell them to bring some tea, and then we must have our gossip. 7 Patty passed close to where Sir Ralph was sitting as she said this, and went to stir the fire, moving her fine form as she did so with a sort of seductive grace which was natural to her. Then she looked round at Sir Ralph. ' It's like the old days and the old home, isn't it ? ' she said. 1 You mean at Laytonside ? ' asked Sir Ralph, who had been admiring Patty's figure and well-made dress. ' Yes, at the drowsy, sleepy old vicar- age ; and yet I had some happy days there,' and Patty sighed ever so softly. First Earnings. 89 ' Were you sorry to leave it ? ' said Sir Ralph. ' I need not have left it, sir ! ' answered Patty, coquettishly. ' The vicar, good man, offered to take me, and keep me with the rest of the goods and chattels.' * And you would not ? ' laughed Sir Ralph. ' No, I would not,' and again Patty's white eyelids fell. * Mr Snowe is, I believe, a very kind and worthy man- Ñ but one can't help one's feelings.' Sir Ralph moved rather uneasily. * Of course not,' he said, briefly. ' And unless you Ñ care for a person,' continued Patty, still with her eyes fixed on the carpet, ' what good is it Ñ it is better to be alone.' * Certainly.' 90 A Great Temptation. 1 1 was sorry to disappoint him, but Ñ it was not to be/ * Not written in the book of fate, eh ? ' said Sir Ralph, somewhat feebly. ' No, not written in the book of fate. What I would give to peep into it ! ' ' It might not make you any happier.' ' Still, I should like to know/ con- tinued Patty, beginning to walk up and down the room, as if the conversation excited her ; ' to look for a moment at the future years Ñ would you not ? ' and she suddenly stopped before Sir Ralph and looked with her bright eyes in his face. * Yes, I think I would/ he answered, and as he spoke he was not thinking of the yellow-haired girl standing before him. First Earnings. 9 1 Yet Patty May was looking very pretty this afternoon, and Sir Ralph was quite ready to admit it. She pleased his eyes but not his heart. Her form, her colouring, her grace, made her attractive, yet she lacked something. A subtle something which shone in Laura Ingram's dark eyes, and told of a truer, nobler soul ; and this thought passed through the young man's mind as he looked on Patty's fair eager face. 6 But men are so different to us ; they can make their fate,' continued Patty. ' Not always.' ' They can strive for it at all events ; but we have to sit and wait.' Sir Ralph smiled a little grimly. Patty was by no means a young woman to 'sit and wait,' he knew from experience. A mental vision rose 92 A Great Temptation. before him at this moment ; a vision of Patty May and himself on a moonlit night standing together in a country lane. He had dined at the vicarage, and Patty, with her golden hair un- covered, had lured him first into the garden, and then beyond. He was young, and as the girl looked up in his face with her shining eyes he had been strongly tempted to kiss her. Some subtle instinct told Patty this, and she bent her head nearer his shoulder, and in a foolish mood Sir Ralph did kiss her, but the next moment apologised. 'Forgive me/ he said; 'it was wrong of me to do that. ? 'It might not be/ half whispered Patty, and these words recalled Sir Ralph completely to his senses. First Earnings. 93 'It is late, we had better go in/ he said, and Patty, disgusted with his coldness, was compelled to return to the house. The recollection of this little scene acted as a warning to Sir Ralph ever afterwards. He knew she was trying to lead him on to speak words that he had no intention of saying. And he knew this now as Patty stood before him in her London lodging. He therefore rose, and held out his hand to say good-bye. * I really must go,' he said ; ' I have an appointment this afternoon which I must keep. I have stayed too long.' 'Oh, do not go yet, when we have not met for so long,' urged Patty. 1 Ella will be here in a moment or two/ 94 A Great Temptation. ' I really cannot stay to-day.' ' When will you come again, then ? And about your friend downstairs, I shall call on her, as any friend of yours I am sure will be so nice.' 'But Miss Ingram is very quiet; she is a painter and a writer.' 1 How delightful ! I shall be charmed to know her ; I will call to-morrow.' ' ButÑ' * Indeed you must introduce no "buts," Sir Ralph, it will be so pleasant to have her near us, and as we are all girls we will be quite companions.' Sir Ralph could not very well say anything more, but as he went down the staircase he thought he might as well give Miss Ingram notice of Miss Patty May's intentions regarding her. He therefore paused a moment at First Earnings. 95 Laura's door, and as he did so the unmistakable sound of a low sob fell on his ears. It alarmed Sir Ralph ; it struck him that Laura might be ill, and require some assistance, so he rapped. There was no answer for a moment, and he rapped again. Then Laura, in a very broken voice, said 'Come in.' Upon which Sir Ralph entered, and as he did so Laura turned her head hastily round, and he saw by the firelight that she had been crying. She was sitting at the table, with her back to the door, and an open letter was lying before her, which, as she recog- nised Sir Ralph, she quickly caught in her hand, and rose in apparent agitation. 1 1 fear I am intruding, but Ñ are you 96 A Great Temptation. not well, Miss Ingram?' said Sir Ralph, nervously. 1 Oh, yes ! But Ñ but I was reading an old letter/ faltered Laura, also nervously ; and as she spoke she crossed the room and went to an open escritoire standing in one corner of the room, and placed the letter in it, and then locked it, leaving Sir Ralph standing, feeling far from happy. CHAPTER V. MAKING ACQUAINTANCE. Laura, however, quickly recovered her self-possession, and, having locked the escritoire, turned round with a faint endeavour at a smile. 'It is foolish to look at things that worry you,' she said ; ' but this letter was left by my poor father.' Sir Ralph's clouded brow instantly cleared. 1 Ah, by your father ? ' he said, in a relieved tone. ' I am so vexed I in- VOL. I. g 98 A Great Temptation. truded on you Ñ and about such non- sense, too.' ' And what is the nonsense ? ' asked Laura. ' But will you not sit down ? ' There was a good fire burning in the grate, and at either side of the hearthrug two basket - chairs stood empty. Sir Ralph looked at one of these, and laid his hand on the back of it. 1 May I sit here for a few min- utes ? ' he asked. 'Yes, do,' and then Laura sat down opposite to him. ' I'm afraid what I have got to say will be rather a nuisance to you,' con- tinued Sir Ralph, stretching out his long legs before the ruddy glow of the fire, with a sense of inward satis- faction ; ' but there are two girls in Making A cqua intance. 9 9 this house I know, that I have known for some years, and as I left you I encountered one of them in the hall.' * I heard that there were two young ladies here.' ' Yes, the two Mays ; they are the nieces of my old tutor, Mr Phillips, who was vicar of Laytonside, and these girls are Anglo-Indians, and lived with their aunt. I saw them some- times, and Miss Patty is rather a gushing young person, and, when she heard I knew you, she insisted that she would call on you and make your acquaintance ; so I came to warn you.' And Sir Ralph laughed. 'It is very kind,' said Laura, with a faint uneasiness in her tone ; but I fear I have no time to make new acquaintances.' ioo A Great Temptation. ' Then just tell the maid to say you are not at home/ ' That would be rather uncourteous, would it not ? ' ' She had no right to propose such a thing ; but Miss Patty is by no means shy.' ' She may not really come.' 1 Perhaps not, but I thought I would tell you. Their uncle was a nice old man ; my place, you know, is not far from Laytonside, and when I was a lad I used to ride to the vicarage every day.' 'Then you have known these young ladies a long time.' ' Oh, not so long as that Ñ about three years, I think. Their father was a colonel out in India, and he died, and that is how they Making Acqtiaintance. i o i came to live with their aunt, Mrs Phillips.' 1 And are they pretty girls ? ' ' They are good-looking, I think. ' And you are not sure ? ' smiled Laura. ' Not quite sure,' answered Sir Ralph, also smiling. ' I used to think Patty rather pretty, but one's ideas change, I think.' ' Well, I shall tell you what I think when I see her/ ' She's a showy sort of girl, with golden hair ; but I hope they won't bore you.' * Perhaps she will do for a model, a study ? ' said Laura, still smiling. ' Do you mean for literature or art ? ' 1 Oh, the study of a head ; the golden hair you talk of is always artistic' 102 A Great Temptation. ¥ Miss Patty's is very artistic, I should say,' said Sir Ralph, with a some- what grim little laugh. Then he added, 1 But I suppose I should go now, only it's so comfortable here I do not feel inclined to move.' ' There is no hurry.' 'Am I not keeping you from your work ? ' ' No, it's too dark to work. Would you like some tea ? ' ' I should most awfully/ Laura put out her hand and rang the bell, and Sir Ralph breathed a sigh of inward satisfaction. He was not at all fond of tea, but it gave him an excuse to stay a quarter of an hour or so longer with Laura, and he would have drunk many cups of tea for this pleasure. Making Acquaintance. 103 So the tea was brought in, and Laura poured it out, and Sir Ralph sat watching her by the flickering fire- light. Laura was graceful, but she had none of the sensuous grace that distinguished Patty May. She moved with a certain dignity of bearing, and made no effort, and indeed never thought of attracting admiration. She was simple and natural alike in her words and manner, and all this Sir Ralph had been quick to perceive. 'What a difference there is between them,' he was thinking ; comparing in his mental vision the two girls he knew under the same roof; 'the one upstairs frightens me, but with Miss Ingram I feel at home.' So much at home, indeed, did he feel, that he sat talking to Laura what 104 A Great Temptation. he knew was an unreasonable time. Then suddenly he sprang up. ' I am ashamed of myself,' he said. 1 Here I've been sitting wasting your time, and, I dare say, you have been wishing me away a thousand times.' ' No, I have not/ answered Laura pleasantly. * I have enjoyed your con- versation.' ' Then I may come again ? ' asked Sir Ralph, holding out his hand. 'Yes,' answered Laura, as she took it. So they parted, and Sir Ralph went out into the now lighted streets with a new sense of elation and pleasure in his heart. Laura was such a charm- ing companion, he told himself; so well-read, so thoughtful. Not always thinking of her handsome face, though Making A cquaintance. 105 it was a hundred times handsomer than Patty May's. He was sorry Patty was in the same house, but what did it matter ? Patty had nothing particular to tell against him. 'And she's not one to listen to idle gossip or insinuations,' thought Sir Ralph. ' She's a dear girl. It makes a man feel better to have known her.' At this moment Miss Patty May was receiving what to her was almost a shock. The maid of the house, whose name was Brice, and who was of a talkative and lively disposition, was en- gaged in removing the afternoon tea which had been ordered for Sir Ralph, but which he had declined to partake of. And as she was placing the cups on the tray, she remarked casually, Ñ ' The gentleman who called here had jo6 A Great Temptation. tea with Miss Ingram downstairs, miss/ * What ? ' said Patty, looking quickly up, who was leaning back in an easy chair by the fire, with a novel lying on her lap. 'Not Sir Ralph?' 'Yes, miss, he was called Sir Ralph something, but I have forgot the rest ; but he called on Miss Ingram first this afternoon, then on you, and after he left you he went again to Miss Ingram's room, and they had tea to- gether ; he's just gone.' A pang shot through Patty's vain heart ; an absolute pang of pain. He had declined to stay and have tea with her, and yet he had gone to this other girl! 1 Are you sure ? ' she said ; ' Sir Ralph Woodland is an old friend of ours.' Making Acquaintance. 107 ' Yes, miss, I am quite sure, for I took in the tray. They were sitting together by the fire when I went in.' Patty asked no more questions ; she turned almost faint. She had set her heart on marrying Sir Ralph Wood- land, and if this other girl had really come between she felt it was more than she could bear. She looked at Ella, who was lying on a couch, and Ella gave an answering glance. Then, when Brice and her tea-tray were gone, she rose from her seat, and said hastily, Ñ 'What do you think of that, Ella?' * It looked rather queer,' answered Ella. ' What can she be to him ? ' went on Patty excitedly. ' She's an artist,' 108 A Great Temptation. he said, 'and a writer. Fancy Ralph Woodland carrying on a flirtation with a blue stocking ! What shall we do, I must stop it somehow ? ' 1 It may not be a flirtation,' suggested Ella. 1 It may not, but he would not stay to have tea here, and he went back you see to her ! I think,' and Patty stamped one of her pretty feet vehe- mently on the floor, ' I could kill her if she takes him away from me ! ' ' Don't be silly, Patty.' 'That's what I feel, I can tell you. I am certain he cared for me at one time ; cared for me awfully, and to think that anyone should come between us would just drive me mad. We must get to know her at once, Ella, and see what sort of girl she is. Making Acquaintance. 109 I wonder if she is as good-looking as I am?' She went up to the mirror in the overmantel as she spoke, and stood there looking at her pretty face. It was a fair image, and Patty's eyes did not recognise nor see its faults. She believed in her own beauty, and was proud of it ; and she felt as she gazed at herself that she would win Sir Ralph still. * She shall not cut me out/ she said at length, turning away. ' Let us call on her to-morrow, Ella ; I told Ralph Woodland we would call/ ' Do you think you would until you know more about her ? ' suggested Ella. ' I do not care who she is, or what no A Great Temptation. she is, as long as I stop her affair with Sir Ralph,' answered Patty, reck- lessly. ' Yes, we must go, Ella, and I'll try to get out from her how she got to know him, and how long she has known him, and all about it.' Accordingly the next afternoon Patty and Ella May, having dressed them- selves in their most becoming costumes, and having learnt from the maid Brice that Miss Ingram was at home, pro- ceeded downstairs, and told Brice to rap at the door of Miss Ingram's room, and take in their cards. This Brice did, and Patty then heard a sweet-toned voice say, ' Show the young ladies in, Brice,' which the maid at once proceeded to do. Then Patty and Ella entered, and Making Acquaintance. 1 1 1 Laura Ingram rose to receive them, and bowed gravely. * Excuse us for coming,' said Patty, advancing smilingly ; ' but a very great and a very old friend of ours told us all about you, and I think you know him also Ñ Sir Ralph Woodland ? ' ' Yes, I know Sir Ralph Woodland/ answered Laura, looking somewhat curi- ously at the two pretty girls before her. And the two pretty girls Ñ one of them, at least, was looking most critically at her. And Patty was too shrewd, too clever, not to admit that the slender, black-robed woman before her, with her handsome face and noble bearing, was a dangerous rival. Patty recognised this at once, but she made no sign of any such feeeling. She looked in the ii2 A Great Temptation. most friendly manner at Laura ; she smiled her sweetest smiles. 1 Sir Ralph told us you are a writer and a painter,' she said, 'and I was so interested. It must be charm- ing to be clever, and as we are in the same house, and all girls, we took the liberty of calling.' ' I am very pleased to see you,' answered Laura courteously. ' Where will you sit ? ' Patty having placed herself in a grace- ful attitude on a chair, commenced again to talk of Sir Ralph Woodland. ' It was so odd,' she said, ' but I met Sir Ralph yesterday afternoon just coming out of your room. He is a very old friend, indeed, of ours,' and here Patty cast down her eyes. ' He was a pupil of my poor uncle's, you Making Acquaintance. 113 know, the vicar of Laytonside, when he was a youth. Of course we were chil- dren then. Have you known him long ? * * Not very long,' answered Laura, with a half-smile. She was beginning to perceive the cause of Miss Patty May's visit from the drift of her con- versation. * Do tell me what you write ? ' went on the voluble Patty. ' Are they love stories ? ' ' There must be some love in all stories, you know,' replied Laura, with a little laugh. * Can you lend me one ; I am dying to read it ? ' ' I am sorry I cannot, as I have had none published yet, but I have had one accepted, and then I shall be glad to lend it to you. vol. 1. H ii4 A Great Temptation. ' Oh, how delightful ! Thank you so much. And Sir Ralph said you paint too ; is this one of yours ? ' And Patty rose, and went up to an easel in the corner of the room, on which there was an unfinished study of a girl's head. ' Yes,' said Laura, following her, and looking at her work ; ' but, as you see, this is in a very crude state/ ' Still, I see, it will be lovely when it is done. How clever you are ! Ah, I wish I was clever/ Patty rattled on in this fashion for at least half an hour longer, Ella chim- ing in occasionally, and then the two rose to go, Patty warmly pressing Laura to return their visit early. Then, as the door closed behind the sisters, they looked at each other significantly, Making Acqtiaintance. 115 and Patty's expression was not a very happy one, and as soon as they reached their own room, she said quickly, Ñ ' What do you think of her, Ella ? ' ' She is good-looking, almost hand- some for a dark girl,' replied Ella. ' Yes,' admitted Patty unwillingly. ' But she wants something - Ñ I don't think that Ralph Woodland can really admire her.' 1 She did not say much about him.' 1 Oh ! I think nothing of that ; that might be just slyness, and she looks one of those sly creatures to keep every- thing to themselves. Of course, she'll try to make up to him Ñ a girl working for her bread, I suppose, and living in a back room. But we'll see.' And Patty nodded her golden head, and again went to the mirror, and n6 A Great Temptation. arranged her pretty bonnet more to her satisfaction before going out into the streets. The evening did not pass, however, before Laura Ingram was again reminded of her neighbours. This time the communication came in the form of a little note from Patty May, and was as follows : Ñ 4 Dear Miss Ingram, Ñ Would you very kindly (if you have it) give me Sir Ralph Woodland's address in town ? Was it not stupid of us, but though he left his card yesterday, we have contrived to mislay it, and I wish to ask him to come and have tea with us to-morrow, and I hope you will come also. Do come. Ñ Yours sincerely, ' Patrica May.' Making Acquaintance. 117 Laura replied by giving Sir Ralph's address at his club, and also accepted the invitation to tea. She felt a little curious about these two girls, and their evident interest in Sir Ralph, excited hers. ' She is handsome Ñ the eldest one/ she thought ; ' at least she has a sort of captivation about her. I wonder if he admires her.' And Laura sighed. CHAPTER VI. AFTERNOON TEA. Sir Ralph received Patty May's invita- tion the next morning, and she had duly baited it. ' Your friend downstairs,' she wrote, ' is coming to have tea with us to- morrow, so will you come also ? Do come ; ' and so on. Sir Ralph certainly would not have gone unless his ' friend downstairs 7 had been going, but he could not resist the pleasure of seeing Laura Ingram again 118 Afternoon Tea. 119 so soon. He therefore sent a telegram to accept Patty's invitation, and at five o'clock in the afternoon was ringing at the street door of the house in Maddox Street. He asked for Miss Ingram, but was told by Brice that she was 'having tea with the two other ladies in the drawing- room. But they expect you, sir,' added the maid, smiling. Sir Ralph accordingly proceeded up- stairs, and was received with effusion and a great show of intimacy by Patty May. It annoyed him, the references she constantly made to their former friendship. ' Ah, don't you remember that day we went so-and-so, Sir Ralph ? ' It was always, ' Don't you remember this or the other ? ' and Sir Ralph did 120 A Great Temptation. not like all this before Laura Ingram. Patty was also dressed to perfection, and looked really very handsome, and certainly did her best to fascinate her guest, but Sir Ralph was not re- sponsive. He sat and looked at the three girls, and the one that made no effort to attract his admiration attracted him most. Laura did not say very much, for Patty seemed determined to let no one speak but herself. She wished to show Sir Ralph how much more brilliant she was than the quiet, dark-eyed girl dressed in her black gown, whom she wished to eclipse. Poor Patty ! Sir Ralph was soon tired of her chatter, and longing to have a quiet conversation with Laura. He addressed Laura once or twice, and she answered Afternoon Tea. 121 sensibly and to the point, but Patty speedily interrupted them. 'And where did you two first meet?' she said presently, and a quick blush rose to Laura's oval cheeks as she listened to the question. 1 We met at the National Gallery,' she replied, with a slight reserve in her tone. 'At the National Gallery!' echoed Patty. ' Then were you introduced to each other ? ' ' Of course we were,' said Sir Ralph sharply. ' But what a funny place to meet ; I have never been there ; I should like to go ; will you take us some day, Sir Ralph ? ' went on Patty. 6 Yes, if you wish it,' replied Sir Ralph coldly. 122 A Great Temptation. ' Oh, I do wish it ; I love pictures ; do let us fix a day ? ' ' If you go on a students' day Èyou will see a picture by Miss Ingram very well worth looking at' said Sir Ralph. ' Then let us go on a students' day by all means. What day shall we fix ? I shall be delighted to go, wont we, Ella?' remarked Patty, with affected enthusiasm. 1 You should not say that, Sir Ralph,' smiled Laura Ingram, ' or Miss May will be disappointed with my poor attempt.' 'Not if she knows how to judge good work,' said Sir Ralph, also smiling, and his dark face softened wonderfully as he looked at Laura. 1 Well, after that pretty speech, I Afternoon Tea. 123 think I must go,' said Laura, rising, and holding out her hand to Patty, who took it. ' Good-bye, Miss May ; good-bye, Sir Ralph,' and she next offered her hand to Sir Ralph Wood- land, who, however, rose without taking it in his. ' I will see you safely downstairs if you will allow me,' he said. ' Good- bye, Miss May.' ' What ! you are surely not going ? ' cried Patty, greatly annoyed. * Yes, thank you ; good-bye, Miss Ella.' ' But about going to the National Gallery ? ' said Patty, trying to detain him. But Laura was already at the door of the room, and Sir Ralph hurried after her. 1 If you will fix with Miss Ingram 124 A Great Temptation. any day I will meet you there, ' an- swered Sir Ralph, glancing round, and the next moment he closed the door, and followed Laura downstairs, leaving Patty intensely chagrined. * Did you ever see anything so rude, so ungentlemanly ! ' she cried, ' going after that girl like that? I don't know what to think ; yes, I do, I don't believe she's respectable ! ' 1 He behaved very oddly, certainly ; I think he must admire her,' answered Ella. 'Admire her!' and Patty stamped her little foot on the floor. ' Men don't really admire women of that sort. They run after them, and let them make fools of them, but admire, in- deed ! ' Patty in truth was in a towering rage, and could not conceal it. Her Afternoon Tea. 125 cheeks flushed, her eyes flashed, and then filled with tears, and she began walking up and down the room with irregular footsteps. 6 We should never have got to know her,' she said presently. 'Well, we don't know anything against her really,' suggested Ella. ' Oh ! don't we. Do you suppose a stiff and starched man like Ralph Woodland would run after her as he did unless she had him in her toils ? Do you think it's proper him going down and sitting all alone with her in that back room of hers? It's disgust- ing, simply disgusting, and the next time I see him I'll give him a piece of my mind.' ' That would be very silly. You might make him think of marrying 126 A Great Temptation. her, if you were to attack her like that.' 1 Marry her ! ' screamed Patty. ' Do you think he'd marry a girl like that ? A beggar like that ! I know no man prouder than Ralph Woodland. She's all very well to amuse himself with, to make a fool of for a time, but marry her, not he ! ' In the meanwhile the two whose conduct had created all this commotion were standing quietly together by the fire in Laura's room. ' She is certainly pretty,' Laura was saying, speaking of Patty May. ' Yes, in a way,' answered Sir Ralph ; 'but I don't admire her style par- ticularly.' ' I am afraid she did not like you leaving with me.' Afternoon Tea. 127 ' I don't care whether she liked it or not; I liked it, and I should not have gone unless I had expected to meet you there.' Laura sighed ever so softly, and her head drooped a little lower, but she did not speak. ' I want you to do me a favour, Miss Ingram,' said Sir Ralph, after a little pause. ' Yes,' answered Laura, looking up. 6 Will you come with me to the Lyceum some night? You told me you had never seen Irving, and I should like you to see him.' Laura hesitated. 'It is very good of you,' she said ; 4 butÑ' ' Why should you not go ? I wish 128 A Great Temptation. you would let me take you about a little to different places.' 'What would the Misses May say? what would Mrs Grundy say ? ' answered Laura, with a somewhat un- easy little laugh. ' I don't care either what the Misses May say, or Mrs Grundy ! I want you to have a little amusement and pleasure.' 'And my work?' ' You will work all the better.' Laura gently shook her head, 'No, I think not,' she said ; ' I want to try to live for my work, to live in it, and forget myself entirely.' ' That is folly ; forgive my saying so ; but indeed it is. You have your life to live ; your work may be part of it, but never the chief part.' Afternoon Tea. 129 1 1 wish to feel that it is so.' ' But why ? You are young, and, don't be angry, you are handsome, and naturally life has much to offer you.' Again Laura slightly shook her head. ' Life is a mystery to me/ she said. 1 It is to us all more or less, but I think we should try to make the best of it' ' It is so difficult always,' went on Laura. ' It seems to me there is always a struggle between what we want to do and what we ought to do. And it is so tangled ; the sins and sorrows of others burden those who have had no part in them.' * The wisest plan is not to let them do so. Our own sins and sorrows are enough, and too much. But we have vol. 1. 1 130 A Great Temptation. drifted away from the point. Will you go somewhere with me to-morrow ? ' ' It would be a pleasure to me to do so,' said Laura, raising her dark eyes and looking in Sir Ralph's face steadily and sadly, 'but I think I had better not.' 4 If it will be a pleasure to you I will listen to no "buts,"' answered Sir Ralph brightly. ' I will call for you at four, or say three o'clock, and we can go where you like, and then we must fix about the theatre.' 'You will make me quite idle.' ' Is that a hint that I have stayed long enough just now ? Let me stay five minutes more, Miss Ingram, and then I really will go.' ' I never give hints,' answered Laura, smiling. Afternoon Tea. 131 ' I'm glad of that. If you are tired of me, tell me plainly out that you are.' ' But that would not be polite,' said Laura, still smiling. 1 1 don't care about you being polite to me, I want you just to say what you think.' { No one does that, Sir Ralph.' ' I know ; not among people that do not understand each other ; but some- how or other I think that we do. At least I know that I like talking to you better than to anyone else, and you seem able to talk to me, though I am not as a rule very easy to get on with, they say.' * I find it very easy to talk to you.' 1 I'm glad of that. Well, then, to 132 A Great Temptation. morrow at three o'clock I will call for you, and now good-bye.' He pressed her hand as he parted with her, and Laura sighed deeply after he was gone. ' I suppose I should not have pro- mised to go with him,' she was thinking ; ' but his will is stronger than mine, I think, and after all it can do me no harm to be friends with him Ñ and I like him so much.' Then she smiled a little to herself, thinking of the two girls upstairs, and their evident annoyance because he had left the room with her. ' He had better not have done so, perhaps,' she reflected, and yet she was pleased that he had. And something of the same feeling rose in her heart the next day when it neared three o'clock. She had Afternoon Tea. 133 looked more than once at her watch, and when just at the hour she heard the house door bell ring she listened anxiously. A minute or two later Sir Ralph was ushered into her room, and, as she rose to receive him, she saw he was carrying a magnificent bouquet. ' Will you accept a posey I have brought for you?' he said, as he placed it in her hand. Laura's face flushed with pleasure, and her heart beat fast. ' How lovely they are ! How beauti- ful,' she said ; ' but you should not have brought them.' 'Why not? I have been down to Covent Garden to get them for you, as I fancied somehow that you would like flowers.' ' Indeed, I do. I love them, and it 134 A Great Temptation. was so kind of you to think of it, yet Ñ ' ' Yet what ? ' ' I think I should scold you for bring- ing them.' * If they give you any pleasure, please don't scold me. And now are you ready to go out ? ' ' I have just my hat to put on ; but first I must ring for a vase or something for my beautiful flowers in ; thank you for them so much.' Presently the maid brought in a vase, and Sir Ralph stood by as Laura placed the flowers in it, and he noticed that her hands trembled a little as she did so. Then she ran upstairs to put on her hat, and on the landing she encountered Patty May, who turned her head away with a sudden jerk when she saw her. Afternoon Tea. 135 Laura naturally felt surprised. Miss May had sought her acquaintance, and to treat her in this uncourteous fashion, to say the least, was very strange. But she took no notice, and passed into her own room to prepare herself for going out. The truth was that Patty May, who had been nursing her wrath ever since Sir Ralph had left the drawing-room with Laura on the previous day, had also heard the door bell ring, and, after rush- ing to the window, she had seen Sir Ralph alight from a hansom, carrying a large bouquet in his hand. For a moment or two Patty's heart beat fast, and her cheeks flushed. There had been days when Sir Ralph had brought her flowers, and it flashed through Patty's mind that these might be for her. But no ; he entered the j 36 A Great Temptation. house, but he did not come upstairs. He had brought them for that girl, and Patty's anger was almost too great for words. She panted, she grew pale, and then she went out on the landing to try if she could hear or see anything. She saw the maid carry in the vase for the flowers, and then Laura Ingram came running upstairs, and Patty in her rage purposely cut her. ' It's too disgusting,' she told Ella a minute or two later. And she thought it more disgusting still when, by-and- by, she saw Laura leave the house with Sir Ralph, and the two walk down the street together side by side. Patty indeed lost all control over her- self with rage. She raved, she cried, and declared Sir Ralph had treated her Afternoon Tea, 137 disgracefully, though in truth he had done nothing of the sort. Sir Ralph in the meantime was feeling exceedingly happy, and had utterly forgotten the very existence of Miss Patty May. He was with Laura, and Laura had become to him the one woman he cared for in the world. He took her to a picture gallery in New Bond Street, and they spent the afternoon together, and there was a subtle joy in Laura's heart she did not care to analyse. That secret sympathy which we cannot create, that silent knowledge of an unseen bond which we cannot ignore, had arisen be- tween these two, and for the time at least made the world seem bright to them both. There was not many people in the gallery, and they sat down and talked i$& A Great Temptation. quietly enough, but quiet words can be full of meaning. Laura forgot in these sweet moments the haunting shadow that hung over her life. She did not ask herself does he love me, but she felt it, and the knowledge brought joy to her soul. At last, unwillingly, she rose to go, and, turning to Sir Ralph, she said, with a smile, Ñ '' It is time my holiday was over.' ' Your first holiday/ he answered pleasantly, also rising ; ' but I hope you mean to have many/ ' No, I must not have many/ ' Yes, you must.' * I am afraid you are a wilful man, Sir Ralph.' ' Upon this point, yes.' Laura laughed softly. Women as a Afternoon Tea. 139 rule by no means dislike to be treated in this lordly fashion. She liked to be told she must do what this strong, resolute-faced man bade her. But she said nothing ; they walked back to Lauras room together, and never saw or thought of looking up to see the white-faced, red-eyed woman who was sitting at the drawing-room window watching for their return. ' Will you come in and have some tea ? ' said Laura, when they reached the door of the house, and Sir Ralph was only too glad to accept the invitation. He went in with her, and noticed as he passed her table that a letter directed to her lay there; a letter in a man's handwriting. Laura also noticed this, and lifted it up, and re- 140 A Great Temptation, cognised that Mr George Gifford, of Suffold, was her correspondent. A faint colour passed over her face as she saw this, for she had not heard from George Gifford since her arrival in town. But she quietly laid the letter down on the table without opening it, and glanced at Sir Ralph as she did so, who was somewhat moodily regarding it. 'It is from my lawyer at Suffold,' said Laura, with momentarily instinct, and Sir Ralph's expression at once changed. ' Lawyers are often great bores, and very expensive bores too,' he said. c Mine was very kind to me at the time of my poor father's death,' an- swered Laura, and then she changed Afternoon Tea. 141 the conversation, and Sir Ralph drank manfully three cups of tea, so as to prolong the interview. At last he rose to go. ' May I call to-morrow afternoon for you ? ' he said, as he held out his hand. 1 No, to-morrow afternoon I am going to be busy, I can go nowhere,' answered Laura decidedly. ' The next afternoon then ; till then good-bye, and with a significant press- ure of her hand he went away. And all the next day he kept thinking of Laura ; of Laura whom he meant to ask to be his wife, and to whom his heart yearned with strange deep tenderness. Imagine with what dismay and shock then he received the following 142 A Great Temptation. letter by an early post on the morn- ing of the day he again intended to call on Laura ; the day he had said he would do so, when he parted with her. It was written in, to him, an unknown handwriting, and he read the words it contained with a fast- beating angry heart. ' Sir, Ñ This is written by a friend to warm you of the character of the person whom you visit in Maddox Street. Miss Laura Ingram is a woman of bad character, the writer of this knows too well, and a gentle- man spent many hours alone with her yesterday in your absence. Be warned in time. A Victim.' CHAPTER VII. A PROPOSAL. It is almost impossible to describe the feelings with which Sir Ralph again and again read this shameful letter. He was a man with strong, though suppressed passions, and one of his first actions was to fling it indig- nantly on the floor. 4 It is a lie ! ' he said aloud. ' An utter lie ! ' Then he began to pace the room 143 144 A Great Temptation, with knitted brow, remembering his first acquaintance with Laura ; certainly she had not sought him, he told himself. Could there be anyone else ? He lifted up the letter again and read the condemning words. A gentleman with her all yesterday afternoon ? Yesterday afternoon, when he had offered to call and take her out, and she had said she would be too busy to go. Could there be any truth in this ? But no, no ! He was too loyal to believe anything absolutely against the lofty-mannered, high-minded girl who now rose before his mental vision, sitting by his side in the picture gallery, with her dark eyes raised to his, and full of thought. Some enemy has done it, some jealous woman, reflected Sir Ralph, and in a A Proposal, 145 moment the memory of Patty May flashed across his mind. ' Yet could she be so base, so shame- ful, as to endeavour to destroy a woman's character like this ? ' he asked himself. He did not think highly of Patty May, but this was too low. It could not be Patty, and finally Sir Ralph determined to go to Maddox Street and ask Miss Ingram herself who was likely to try to injure her, as the writer of this letter had certainly intended to do. Accordingly, early in the afternoon, Sir Ralph was ushered into Lauras room by the waiting maid, and Laura rose with a pleased smile to receive him. But Sir Ralph's manner was uncertain and absent, and more than once Laura glanced at him, wondering vol. 1. K 146 A Great Temptation. what had happened to him. At last Sir Ralph blurted out the somewhat startling words, Ñ 'Miss Ingram, I want to ask you something Ñ is there anyone who has a grudge against you ? Have you any enemy ?' 1 An enemy ! ' repeated Laura, in great surprise. ' No, not that I know of certainly.' ' Yet you must have.' 1 Why do you say so, what reason have you ? ' asked Laura. 1 I have received a letter ; a disgrace- ful letter Ñ ' ' About me ? Impossible ! I not only have no enemies in town, but I know no one ? ' ' Yet this letter had been posted in town.' A Proposal. 147 ' What is it about ? Will you let me see it ? ' ' 1 cannot let you see it' 1 But, I think, Sir Ralph, you ought. If anyone has been writing things that are not true about me, I ought to have the opportunity of contradicting them.' Sir Ralph hesitated. ' I did not believe a word of the letter,' he said, 'only I wanted to ask you if you knew of anyone who was likely to wish to do you harm.' 1 But what was the letter about ? ' 1 Oh, it was a nasty letter ; it said you had a gentleman with you all yesterday afternoon for one thing.' A slight flush spread over Laura's clear face. 'There is some truth in that at 148 A Great Te7nptation. least,' she said, after a moment's pause. * My lawyer, Mr Gifford, was here yesterday afternoon, and remained for some time. It must have been some- one in the house then that wrote it. Probably Miss May.' 'If I thought so Ñ ' began Sir Ralph angrily, and then he stopped. 4 It is most likely ; you know these young ladies called on me, and that I met you in their room ? Well, after you left with me that day, I saw Miss May by accident on the staircase, and she determinately cut me ! What absurd folly, is it not ? ' c If I thought Patty May would do such a thing as write such a letter, I should go to her and tell her very plainly what I thought. But I can scarcely believe it ? ' A Proposal. 149 ' But there is no one else could know Mr Gifford was here yesterday/ ' And Ñ have you known Mr Gifford long ? ' ' For some years at least ; he and his father are the principal solicitors in the country town where I lived when my poor father was alive. And Mr Gifford also knows very few, if any one, in town, so the letter could be written by none of his acquaintances Ñ no, I believe it was Miss May.' Sir Ralph was silent. He began walking slowly up and down the room, with a contracted brow and a disturbed heart. And Laura's eyes followed him as he did so. Then suddenly an idea flashed through her brain which drove the blood from her cheeks. Could this letter be written by any- 150 A Great Temptation. one who knew, or guessed, of the dark tragedy that her father's last letter had disclosed ? If so this might account for Sir Ralph's evident uneasiness and distress. ' I should rather see the letter,' she said a moment later, and she listened with parted lips for an answer. * I cannot show it to you,' he replied abruptly. * Is Ñ is there any other name men- tioned in it but mine ? ' went on Laura, with an earnest ring in her voice. 1 None, except the gentleman, this Mr Gifford, who was with you yes- terday, and his name even is not mentioned.' 'Then it is some piece of spiteful folly,' said Laura, a little scornfully, ' and I do not mean to think of it A Proposal. 151 any more. By-the-bye, I have got something to tell you ; Mr Valentine Ross, the editor, wishes me to call at his office about the story he accepted ; he wants some small alter- ations made in it.' ' Why can't he send it here ? ' an- swered Sir Ralph, rather sharply. ' I suppose he wishes to talk it over ; I have written to say I will call to-morrow.' Sir Ralph felt unreasonably annoyed. * He's rather a forward fellow Ross/ he said. 'Is he?' replied Laura, with a smile. ' Well, I do not think I shall be afraid of him.' ' Let me go with you ? ' ' No, I think you had better not. It is very good of you to offer to 152 A Great Temptation. do so, but you see I must get ac- customed to going about among pub- lishers' offices, if I ever really became a writer.' ' It must be very unpleasant for ladies, I think.' 1 But what can poor ladies do who have to work for their bread ? ' ' I do not like to hear you say thatÑ Laura,' and a sudden flush spread over Sir Ralph's dark face ; ' Miss In- gram, I should say Ñ I have some- thing to say to you.' ' Yes,' answered Laura quietly. 'It is something that this con- founded letter has only made me more anxious to say Ñ you have some enemy, someone at least who wishes to do you an injury Ñ give me a right to protect you ; to make it im- A Proposal, 153 possible for anyone to say injurious things of you.' ' You are very good Ñ ' said Laura, with a quick blush, and downcast eyes. * I mean will you be my wife ? That will end all scandals, and then, if Miss Patty May did write this odious letter about you, she will find out her mistake.' ' There could be no scandals about me, Sir Ralph,' said Laura, raising her head a little proudly. ' But people invent things, and Ñ and, Laura, if you will be my wife it will make me very happy.' Again Laura's eyes fell, and a little quivering sigh escaped her lips.' 'From the first time I saw you I liked you, you know,' continued Sir Ralph, and he took her hand, which 154 A Great Temptation, trembled in his clasp, ' and Ñ and I will try to make you very happy.' Then Laura lifted her dark eyes, and looked in his face. 1 It Ñ it cannot be, Sir Ralph,' she said, in a low tone. ' But why ? ' pleaded Sir Ralph. ' You do not dislike me, do you ? ' ' No, no, indeed ! But there are reasons Ñ a reason at least that must always prevent this.' ' You do not care for anyone else, do you ? ' ' I do notÑ I am very grateful for your kindness to me, most grateful Ñ I wish to remain your friend, but Ñ ' ' If you don't care for anyone else I will try to win you yet, Laura Ñ ? I must try, I have set my heart on this.' A Proposal. 155 ' 1 am very sorry, but it cannot be ; indeed, indeed, Sir Ralph, it can- not be.' 1 1 do not understand why ? ' Laura turned away her head. She could not tell him ' Why ' ; could not tell him the miserable suspicion which haunted her own mind. She began again after a little while to talk of the story with Mr Valentine Ross, and of another of which she had made a sketch. But Ralph Wood- land did not seem interested. He was moody, and his mind completely preoccupied with the idea why Laura should refuse him. He had believed that she liked him, and that strange subtle instincts by which we gauge others' feelings seemed to tell him still that this was true. Yet she 156 A Great Temptation. had spoken so positively ; she had given him no hope. Presently he went away, and his face was very gloomy as he did so. Laura spoke to him kindly and gently, but she also was greatly disturbed. They shook hands, and thus they parted, and Sir Ralph went slowly down the street and turned into 'Regent Street with downcast eyes and a strange uneasy feeling in his heart. 'There must be some strong reason, he told himself ; ' a girl struggling for her daily bread to act thus.' Then the hateful letter that he had received recurred to his mind. He was thinking of it when someone addressed him, and looking up he saw the smiling, pretty face of Patty May, with her yellow hair more elaborately arranged A Proposal. 157 even than usual beneath a very becom- ing little bonnet. ' How are you, Sir Ralph ? ' she said, holding out her well-gloved hand. ' I am so glad to see you Ñ I have some thing to tell you.' ' Yes,' answered Sir Ralph briefly. 'May I turn with you a few steps, or will you turn with me ? ' continued Patty in her airy fashion. ' Just as you please,' said Sir Ralph, who was not over pleased to have her company thus thrust on him. 'Then I will turn with you. Such an extraordinary thing has happened, Sir Ralph, and I told Ella I was de- termined to tell you of it. You know that lady who is in the same house with us Ñ Miss Ingram ? ' 158 A Great Temptation. ' Yes, what of her ? ' answered Sir Ralph quickly. ' Well, you know, we thought as she was a friend of yours it was sure to be all right, so we called on her, and, as you remember, we had her to tea to meet you?' ' Yes.' ' I did not quite like her manner, however,' went on Patty, with a little shrug of her pretty shoulders, ' but still that is nothing. But, just fancy, this morning I got a letter warning me against her, saying the most dreadful things.' A flush rose on Sir Ralph's face, and spread to his very brow. ' A letter ? ' he repeated, a little huskily. ' What sort of a letter ? ' 'Oh, a letter to tell us Ñ well, that A Proposal. 159 she was no fit acquaintance for us Ñ that she had done, and did the most dreadful things. That she was not a fit person to know, in fact Ñ that she received gentlemen alone, in fact, and this letter was signed "A Victim/' and whoever wrote it seemed to know all about her.' ' I don't believe a word of it,' answered Sir Ralph roughly. ' Not that I got the letter ? ' said Patty, opening her large blue eyes a little wider. ' I daresay you may have got the letter, but I believe it's all lies.' 'Well, I only know that after I read the letter I asked the maid of the house about her, and she said a gentleman spent all yesterday afternoon with her, and, when Brice took in the tea, she 160 A Great Temptation, heard this man say something very- sweet to her about bygone days.' Sir Ralph made no answer ; he bit his lip under his heavy moustache, and knit his dark brows. * It is very disagreeable to have made such an aquaintance,' continued Patty, with affected demureness. ' How was it you got to know her ? ' * Can I see the letter ? ' asked Sir Ralph abruptly, without replying to Patty's question. * Certainly, if you will go with me to the house. I have not got it with me/ ' All right, let us turn ; it is only just to Miss Ingram that such a letter should be seen to.' 1 Yes, of course ; but do you know anything about her family or friends ? ' A Proposal. 161 Again Sir Ralph made no reply. He turned and strode quickly on, and Patty tripped daintily by his side, until they reached Maddox Street. They turned into it, and as they did they both saw a gentleman standing at the door of the house where Laura Ingram and Patty lived. He was ringing at the door bell, and just as they neared the house he was admitted. ' Perhaps that is one of Miss Ingram's admirers ? ' said Patty, looking smilingly up in Sir Ralph's gloomy face. Then they in their turn rang the bell, and as the maid opened the door Patty addressed her. 1 Who was that gentlemen, Brice,' she said, ' who has just gone in ? ' ' A gentleman for Miss Ingram, miss,' replied the maid, with a smile ; VOL. I. L 1 62 A Great Temptation, 1 the same that was here yester- day/ Patty said nothing further ; she gave a significant glance at Sir Ralph, who had, of course, overheard the brief con- versation, and then she led the way upstairs, and Sir Ralph followed her to the drawing-room. ' I will show you the letter,' said Patty, as soon as they reached it, ' I fear there must be some truth in it.' She then unlocked a little leather desk, and produced a letter in the same handwriting as the one Sir Ralph had received about Laura. He opened it, and read it with eager eyes. It was not worded exactly as his was, but it was to the same effect. Miss Laura Ingram was not a fit person to be an acquaintance of young ladies like the A Proposal, 163 Misses May. She was of bad charac- ter, and so on. And it was signed, as Patty had said, 'A Victim.' ' Isn't it most disagreeable,' remarked Patty, as Sir Ralph finished reading it, ' to be in the house with such a person ? ' ' It's an extraordinary thing ! Who- ever wrote it must have a motive, and she knows so few, or indeed no one in London,' said Sir Ralph. 1 So she tells you.' Patty said this with such marked emphasis that Sir Ralph looked at her keenly. ' Why should she seek to deceive me ? ' he said. 1 Oh ! ' and once more Patty shrugged her shoulders, ' she may want you for a victim, too, you know.' 164 A Great Temptation. < What folly ! ' 'Oh, but I don't know that it's folly. Adventuresses, like she is, think a great deal of a title, you know.' Sir Ralph gave an impatient gesture. ' It was I who sought Miss Ingram's acquaintance,' he said, ' not Miss Ingram mine.' ' That may be, but my advice would be to drop her acquaintance as quickly as possible ; at least we shall.' Sir Ralph made no reply to this. He felt intensely annoyed with Patty May, and left her as soon as possible, but Patty smiled a little triumphantly after he was gone. ' I think I have spoilt her little game,' she thought ; ' and he never suspected me, I am almost sure.' CHAPTER VIII. GATHERING CLOUDS. Whilst Patty May was abusing her upstairs, Laura Ingram was sitting down- stairs talking gravely and quietly to her old friend Mr George Gifford of Suffold. 6 And you say you have got one story accepted ? ' said Mr Gifford. ' Yes,' answered Laura, ' but it's only a short story.' 'And will not be highly remunerated, I fear?' 165 1 66 A Great Temptation. ' It seemed quite a large sum to me,' smiled Laura, 'five pounds Ñ my first earnings.' ' Five pounds,' repeated Mr Gifford reflectively, 'but it takes a great many five pounds to live ? ' 1 Still it is a beginning.' * Yes, no doubt, and also an assistance to an income, but I am half afraid you know Ñ 5 ' That I shall come to starve ? ' c Please do not speak thus ; but I know living in London is expensive, and your capital is so small.' * I daresay you think I have made too large a hole in it already, but I hope soon to be paid for another story, and then I shall begin to save.' 'It is a very precarious way of living/ said Mr Gifford gravely, 'and I am Gathering Clouds. 167 going to take the privilege of an old friend, and tell you that you do not look very well, and rather worried.' ' I have been worried to-day.' ' 1 am sorry for that. Can I help you in any way ? ' ' No ; it is only about a spiteful letter, but it is a very strange thing.' 1 Will you tell me what it is ? ' ' Well I know a gentleman who has received an anonymous letter abusing me.' ' Abusing you ! How could anyone abuse you?' 'That was what I flattered myself,' smiled Laura, c but it seems I flattered myself in vain.' 1 Did you see the letter ? ' ' No ; it was too bad to show me, I believe.' 1 68 A Great Temptation. ' Perhaps the gentleman invented the whole thing?' 'Oh, no, I am sure he did not. He came to me and asked me if I knew of any enemy I had, and I candidly an- swered I did not.' 'You could have no enemy Ñ unless it was a jealous woman.' Laura laughed softly. ' How long is it since you began to pay compliments, Mr Gifford ? ? ' I did not mean it as a compliment.' 'Well, it was a very pretty one. But now tell me about all the people at Suffold?' ' The despised country town ? ' said George Gifford, a little sadly. 1 Please do not say that. I have some very kindly memories of Suffold.' A faint flush spread over George Gathering Clouds. 169 Gifford's pleasant good-looking face as he listened to these words. ' I am glad to hear that,' he said. * Well, all those whom you knew are well, I think. One of the vicar's daughters is married to Mr Masterman, the curate, and the other they say is engaged, and for the rest, I think, everything is the same as when you went away.' ' And your father ? ' ' My father is very well. We have got a cousin to live with us at Red House now to manage the house.' And here George Gifford sighed, and Laura blushed. They were both thinking at this moment of whom he had wished to be the mistress and manager of Red House, but neither alluded to it. 170 A Great Temptation, 1 And is your cousin young or old ? ' asked Laura. ' Neither one nor the other, I should say,' answered George Gifford, smiling. ' However, the old gentleman likes her, and gets on very well with her, and a house is never the same without a woman.' And again George Gifford sighed. Laura felt sorry for him at this moment. No good woman is really ever indifferent to the honest love of an honest man. She did not love him ; knew she could never love him, but she liked and respected him, and knew she could depend on his constant kindness and friendship. Therefore, when he asked her if she would drive with him to one of the Exhibitions, she hardly liked to Gathering Clouds. 171 refuse. He had arranged all her father's affairs and her own free of charge, and she felt grateful to him, and did not like to wound him in any way. ' It will be quite a charity if you will, Miss Ingram,' urged George Gifford, 'for otherwise I shall have to go alone, and I always find public places so desolate when I am alone.' So after a little hesitation Laura consented to accompany him. He hailed a hansom when they reached Regent Street, and handed Laura in ; and as he did this, as ill-luck would have it, a pair of jealous gloomy eyes fell on Laura's slender, black-robed form. This observer was Sir Ralph Wood- land. He had left Patty's room disgusted and annoyed, but also with 172 A Great Temptation. a conviction in his mind that the two anonymous letters about Laura Ingram were certainly very disquieting and disturbing to anyone who had a re- gard for her. And then her own positive refusal of his offer of marriage seemed to him utterly un- accountable. She had said there were reasons, a reason that it never could be. What could these reasons, or reason be? Sir Ralph had asked himself with an angry, uneasy heart. Was it some secret knowledge that she was unworthy to hold the position that he had offered her? He knew nothing of her past life, and he remembered now that the first time he had seen her he had been struck with a look in her dark eyes which told of some hidden sorrow. She had roused her- Gathering Clouds. 173 self and gone on with her painting, but still it was there. ' And then these confounded letters must have something to go upon,' Sir Ralph told himself uneasily. Altogether he was in anything but a happy frame of mind after he left Patty May's rooms. He kept strolling up and down Regent Street, thinking what he must do. Should he tell Laura of this second letter ? But no ; he had better not see her again to-day at least. And just as he made that de- cision he did see her. He saw her handed into a cab by a good - looking young man, and he saw the good-looking young man take a seat by her side, and he saw Laura look at him and smile! Something very like an oath escaped 174 A Great Temptation. his lips, and then a hard, grim smile distorted his mouth. 6 It was all true, then/ he decided at this moment. The girl he had asked that very day to be his wife, the girl that he had wished to take his dead mother's place, and whom he had be- lieved cared for him, was carrying on an intrigue with another man. Sir Ralph never reflected how unjust might be such a conclusion. He had quick passions, and he felt himself degraded. 'What a fool I have been to be taken in with a pair of handsome eyes,' he told himself scornfully. 'Well, she had the decency to refuse me, but per- haps she couldn't help herself. She is probably bound to this other man Ñ I am well out it/ Gathering Clouds. 175 It was very easy to say all this, but it is not so easy to put a strong feel- ing away from one's heart when once it has got there. Sir Ralph scarcely knew himself how much he had cared for Laura Ingram until the belief that she was unworthy of his love cut him to the soul. He was so restless and unhappy during the next few days after he had seen Laura handed into a cab by Mr Gifford, and read the two anonymous letters against her char- acter, that he suddenly determined to leave town and go to Paris. ' She will get knocked out of my head there, I suppose,' he thought bitterly, and so he went away, with- out a word to the girl of whom he ever thought. In the meanwhile Laura naturally won- 176 A Great Temptation. dered what had become of him. George Gifford had left town the day after she had gone to the Exhibition with him, and she, of course, knew nothing of the second anonymous letter that Patty May had shown Sir Ralph. She also wished to see Sir Ralph about something that had occurred to her when she had called on Mr Valentine Ross, which had greatly disturbed her. Mr Ross had received her smilingly, and when he looked on her handsome face, quite understood, he thought, the cause of Sir Ralph Woodland's interest in her writings. He wished her story slightly shortened, and he proceeded to point out the alteration he required made, and after he had done so, Laura said to him courteously, Ñ Gathering Clouds. 177 ' 1 ought to thank you for sending me the money for it so promptly.' Mr Valentine Ross raised his light eyebrows in surprise, and an odd ex- pression passed over his face. ' Was this young lady sarcastic ? ' he was thinking. 'Sir Ralph Woodland gave the money to me/ continued Laura, ' and he said I need not write to thank you for it, as he had already done so.' Then Mr Ross's blue eyes shone with amusement, and he smiled, and showed his white teeth. ' Sir Ralph must have taken time by the forelock,' he said. * May I ask what he gave you ? ' ' Five pounds,' answered Laura, sur- prised. 8 Five pounds ! ' repeated Mr Ross, vol. 1. M 178 A Great Temptation. yet more amused. ' Well, take my ad- vice, Miss Ingram, and always be paid through Sir Ralph Woodland.' ' 1 do not understand you.' ' Never mind, take my advice,' laughed Mr Ross. 1 But you do not mean that Ñ that Sir Ralph did not receive this five pounds from you ? ' ' I shall betray no secrets, but it is well to have so rich and generous a friend.' These words made Laura feel ex- ceedingly uncomfortable. She remem- bered that Sir Ralph had said, ' Ross is rather a forward fellow/ so she did not care to bandy any further words with him on the subject, but shortly afterwards took her leave, carrying her story away with her for correction. But Gathering Clottds. 179 she determined to ask Sir Ralph all about it the first time she saw him. But a week passed away, and she neither saw nor heard from him. Then a fortnight, and a strange feeling of uneasiness and unrest crept into Laura's heart. She knew his address in town, and also the name of his country place, but she did not like to write after the conversation which had passed between them the last time they met. 4 1 cannot marry him,' Laura thought many times, ' but we might remain friends. I told him this, but he seems to have forgotten me.' In the meantime she had once or twice met Patty and Ella May on the stairs, and they had coolly ignored her presence. Once they actually met at the door of the house, but Patty and 180 A Great Temptation. Ella turned their heads another way, and pretended not to see her. Laura naturally felt annoyed, and wondered if they had anything to do with the dis- appearance of Sir Ralph. Altogether she began to feel very dreary and weary. She had written two other short stories, and they had both been rejected by three different magazines. Then she had sent them to Mr Valentine Ross, who wrote in the reply that, as he had not yet found room for the one of hers that he al- ready held, he feared it would be im- possible, for that year at least, to look at another. He added in his letter that accompanied the returned MS., Ñ ' Have you seen anything lately of our friend Sir Ralph Woodland? I have not' Gathering Clouds. 181 All this was very discouraging, and Laura found that the loss of Sir Ralph's occasional society made all the difference to her life. However, she worked bravely on. She began a three- volume novel, and sometimes forgot her own troubles in thinking of imaginary ones. But these troubles threatened to become real and tangible. She had been six months in London, and, with the exception of the solitary five-pound note given her by Sir Ralph, she had made nothing. The golden gates of fortune seemed closed to her, and the bitter ways of poverty to lie at her feet. At last she determined to leave the rooms where she was, and go to cheaper ones. She did this most un- willingly. To go from Maddox Street 1 82 A Great Temptation. seemed to cut off her last chance of again seeing Sir Ralph Woodland. He would not know her new address, and as he had seemingly so completely dropped her acquaintance, how could she let him know it? However, it could not be helped. She could not afford to go on paying for the rooms in Maddox Street, and so removed to cheap lodgings in Edgware Road. There she went on with her novel, and tried to sell some of her paintings, but with the same result as her stories. It was the old story ! The weary struggle for fame which does not come. And so month after month passed away. The house where she lived was dusty and dreary, the landlady stout, dirty and exacting, and at nights given Gathering Clouds. 183 to over strong potations. But Laura tried to buoy herself up about the novel. 6 If I can get it published,' she often thought, 'he may see it adver- tised ; he may go to the publishers and find out where I live, and then he will surely come to see me.' She could not understand how the few words that she had said to him about not marrying him had so completely severed their lives. He had seemed to care for her, and to be discouraged so soon ! At last the novel was done in the sweet spring - time, when the parks lay in their fresh beauty, and the sons and daughters of wealth rode or sat beneath the green trees. The sons and daughters of toil sometimes caught 184 A Great Temptation. a glimpse of them also, and forgot for a while the carking cares of their daily lives. The beautiful sunshine is for all, and brightens the meanest dwelling. It shone into Laura's dingy sitting-room; it fell on her face, which had changed and saddened. 4 He will return to town for the season,' she told herself, as she felt the warmth of the glad beams. * I may see him in the Park.' She had formed a theory in her mind that in his disappointment at her refusal he had probably left England. But he would come back. And so Laura, in her black gown which had not improved by wear, took many a walk in the spring days alone in the Park, and looked at the riders on the Row with wistful eyes. Sir Ralph, Gathering Clouds. 185 she knew, rode regularly when in town, but for a long time she saw nothing of his tall figure and strong, dark face. In the meanwhile she had sent her novel to a publisher's, and it had been returned to her with a civil note of thanks and regret. Then she tried another and another. The third wrote to say his reader's opinion was not highly favourable, but that if she were willing to advance a certain sum of money, he would venture to publish it on the system of half- profits after all expenses had been paid. The sum required to be advanced was fifty pounds, and fifty pounds would nearly make an end of Laura's little capital. Still she was so weary of waiting, 1 86 A Great Temptation. so tired of disappointment, that she resolved to risk it. She knew it was very rash, but, like all young writers, she had a great belief in the first big child of her brain. She thought once more of writing to consult George Gifford at Suffold, and then remembered with a blush it would almost be like asking him to advance the money. So with trembling fingers she drew the cheque, and with a sinking heart a- waited the result. And at this very time drove up to her old lodgings in Maddox Street the very man of whom she had thought, and was still thinking so much. Sir Ralph Woodland had tired of a somewhat reckless life abroad, and had returned to England, and a strong feeling had come over him once again to see the Gathering Clouds. 187 dark-eyed girl, whom he never forgot. He had begun also to ask himself had he not judged her too harshly, and on too slight evidence? At all events, he would go to see her ; and so he drove to Maddox Street, and was informed there by the maid that Miss Ingram had left some months since. ' Do you know where she is ? Did she leave no address ? ' inquired Sir Ralph, with a cold, strange feeling of disappointment at his heart. The maid could not tell him, but at this moment the light little feet of Patty May were hurrying down the staircase. She had seen Sir Ralph's cab drive to the house door ; she had seen him alight, and she was not going to miss such an opportunity. 1 88 A Great Temptation. She was in the hall with outstretched hand before he turned away from the door. ' Sir Ralph ! ' she cried, with real pleasure lighting her pretty face. ' We are still here, you see. Where have you been all this time ? We thought you were lost.' 1 1 have been abroad,' said Sir Ralph. ' Come in. I am so pleased you have come to see us/ continued Patty excitedly ; and Sir Ralph found it im- possible to tell the eager girl his real errand to the house. He therefore followed Patty upstairs, and sat talking to her for a little while, and then, in a somewhat husky voice, inquired for Laura. ' Is Miss Ingram still here?' he asked. Gathering Clotids. 189 'Oh, no,' answered Patty, putting on quite a shocked air. c She has been gone for months Ñ there was a great scandal about her, you know Ñ she went away with a young man.' Sir Ralph made no answer to Patty's mendacious words. He sat silent, also, when she prattled on about the anonymous warning they had both received, and then rose and went away, in spite of Patty's entreaties, with a certain grey look on his face she had never seen there before. And, some days after this, he saw standing beneath the fresh-leafed trees in the Park, as he rode slowly along, a tall, slender, somewhat shabbily-dressed figure, whom he instantly recognised. It was Laura Ingram, and her dark eyes were fixed on his face, and a 190 A Great Temptation. sudden flush rose to her cheeks as she bowed and smiled. But Sir Ralph did not smile. He touched his hat, bowed coldly, and passed on. CHAPTER IX. A FIRST NOVEL. Laura walked no more in the Park after this meeting. She turned, and went back to her dreary home with a bowed head and a stricken heart. For she never for a moment deceived herself. The man of whom she had thought so much ; the man who at one time had liked her well enough to ask her to be his wife, had now plainly shown her that he did not wish to see her again. 191 192 A G? r eat Temptation. ' He has learnt to care for some- one else, I suppose,' thought Laura, with a sigh, and the idea was inex- pressibly painful and bitter to her. It made the daily increasing anxieties of her life more galling ; it made the spring-time dull, and her work a labour. But still it must go on. The knowledge that she was nearly at the end of her resources was a spur she could not ignore. So she sat weav- ing stories of destinies bright or sad, while her own lay overshadowed with such heavy clouds. At last Ñ about the middle of summer Ñ her novel was published, and when Laura received six copies that the publisher sent her, hope once more rose in her saddened heart. A First Novel. 193 The book was fairly well got up, and to see her own name on the fresh pages, for the publisher had advised her to drop her nom de plume in the novel, no doubt sent a thrill of pride through her whole being. She packed a copy up and sent it to George Gifford, at Suffold, writing his name in it, 'with kind regards.' In return for this gift she received a letter in which Mr Gifford's con- gratulations were mingled with anxiety for the writer's position. George Gifford did not know the terms on which this book had been published, but the manager of the bank in Suffold, where Laura's small capital had been placed, had given him a hint which had disquieted him exceedingly. VOL. I. N 194 A Great Temptation. This manager had been dining at Red House on the very day when Lauras book had arrived there, and it was lying in state on the drawing- room table before dinner, and George Gifford pointed it out, not without some little pride, to his guest. 'Ah/ said this Mr Hay, taking one of the volumes up, ' I am very glad to see this, for I was afraid, poor girl Ñ ' And then he paused, and looked significantly at George Gifford. ' What is this young lady like ? ' asked Miss Lindsay, who was George Gifford's cousin, and lived now at Red House as housekeeper and com- panion to her uncle, old Mr Gifford. ' She's a very handsome girl,' re- plied Mr Hay; 'but the old Major A First Novel. 195 was an extravagant fellow, and left his affairs in a sad state, and his daughter badly off, so it's very well if she can earn her livelihood by her pen, for she has little or nothing else.' George Gifford did not speak, but he listened, and wondered if Mr Hay knew more than he did. Then, after dinner, when Miss Lindsay had re- tired, and old Mr Gifford had sub- sided into a nap in an armchair, he once more turned the conversation to Laura. 1 1 sincerely hope, I am sure, that Miss Ingram's book may be a success,' he said. 'And so do I,' replied Mr Hay, cracking his walnuts and sipping his port. ' How much do you suppose, 196 A Great Temptation. now, Gifford, she will make by this book, for, to tell you the truth, she is confoundedly near the end of her tether regarding any money she has in the bank.' * I am very sorry to hear that,' answered George Gifford, gravely. * I know she was paid for a short story she wrote, but it is a most precarious life/ 'And such hard work, too, I should think/ said Mr Hay. 'Well, penniless women must do something, and I believe Miss Ingram was well educated. Poor girl, I hope she will get on/ This was all that was said on the subject, but it made Gifford uneasy. He really liked Laura Ingram, and not all the attentions which his cousin, Miss Lindsay, had lavished on him A First Novel. 197 during the last few months had served to put Laura out of his mind. Therefore, when he wrote to thank her for the book, he hinted that he hoped she had been well paid for it. Laura smiled sadly enough when she read this letter. Her fifty pounds was gone, and as yet she had not received a farthing in return. And so another month passed away, and then her affairs became almost desperate. She had not succeeded in getting either another story or a painting dis- posed of; she had pinched herself in her daily food, and a biscuit and a glass of milk frequently served her for dinner, and she had got into arrears with her landlady for three weeks' lodgings. This lady was not a very pleasant 198 A Great Temptation. person to deal with, and had observed that her young lodger was getting thinner and paler, and that her dress was shabby, and that she generally went out to dine. 6 I don't believe she gets any dinner, that's my opinion,' she confided to a neighbour, who also let lodgings. * And as for them books what do they make? A set of trash the most of them, so, if Miss Ingram doesn't stump down on Saturday, she must go.' She more than hinted this unpleas- ant fact to Laura during the same evening when she had returned hot and tired from, as usual, an unsuccess- ful errand. The poor girl was quite worn out. It was a fiery August day, and Laura felt utterly weary A First Novel. 199 when she reached Edgware Road, and weak from want of food. She sat down in her dingy room and cried bitterly. And when she was in this depressed condition, Mrs Fryer, the landlady, entered the room with wrath in her watery eyes, and a considerable amount of brandy on her brain. * Oh, you're there, are you, Miss Ingram/ she began ; * well, I would just like a word with you, please. You see you'll owe me three weeks' lodgings on Saturday, and you'll oblige me by settling.' c I am very sorry, Mrs Fryer,' re- plied Laura, with a sinking heart, * I've been expecting some money from my publishers or you should have had the money before.' ' Oh, I know nothing about pub- 200 A Great Temptation, Ushers ! Their money may be good for anything I know, but I want mine, and cannot depend on their vagaries.' c I will try to pay you,' said Laura, with the sad humility born of poverty. ' I must be paid, and on Saturday,' retorted Mrs Fryer, her red visage growing scarlet. ' How can I meet my rent and rates do you think if my lodgers don't pay me ? Why, there's a notice lying downstairs that the water will be turned off if the water-rate isn't paid on Monday. It's ridiculous ! Ladies, indeed ! Fine ladies that can't pay for their rooms ! ' ' I will pay you on Saturday,' said Laura in desperation ; and, muttering to herself, Mrs Fryer, having received this promise, went out of the room, slamming the door behind her. A First Novel 201 Laura spent a miserable night after this, but she resolved in the morning to go down to the publishers of her novel and inquire what the profits were likely to be from it, and ask an advance on them. She was at this time literally almost penniless, and had no money to pay for her rooms, nor indeed to live. Mr Hay, the banker at Suffold, had good reason to say she had nearly exhausted her means, for she had actually done so. She had risked all on the fifty pounds she had advanced to have her novel published, and now she was going to learn its fate. So she started for the publishers, and was received by one of the firm civilly, though by no means with effu- sion. She was nervous, and no wonder 202 A Great Temptation. when so much depended on this inter- view. But she sat down, and, after a moment's hesitation, plucked up courage. 'I Ñ have come to ask about my book, Mr Brooke/ she said. ' I hope it is doing fairly well ? ' Mr Brooke cleared his throat and cast down his eyes. He did not care to look at the eager young face before him at this moment. ' I am sorry it is not, Miss Ingram,' he answered. ' Not well ? ' asked Laura, almost with a gasp. ' No, not at all well. It is a most difficult thing to launch a young author, you know. Sometimes first books do take, but not as a rule, and yours has been no exception. It has fallen very flat.' A First Novel. 203 ' And Ñ will there be no profits ? ' * Not a penny ; in fact, we will lose by it, and it won't pay the expenses of publication. However, don't lose heart,' for he saw the grey look of despair that was spreading over Laura's face ; ' another may succeed, you know, but there will be no profits to divide this time, of that I am quite certain ; in fact, it is no use going on binding any more of the edition, for they won't sell' Laura said nothing more. She felt faint and ill, as though all strength had suddenly passed away from her limbs. She rose and went out of the office, and Mr Brooke's parting words fell on dulled ears. It was all over she told herself as she went along the crowded street outside, noticing no 204 A Great Temptation. one. She had risked everything on this book, and it had failed. She could not be an author now ; she had not the means to live while she wrote another book, and therefore she must turn to something else. ' I could be a governess, I suppose,' she thought gloomily ; ' but in the meantime what shall I do to pay Mrs Fryer?' Suddenly she remembered George GirTord. ' He would lend me ten pounds, I think, and when I get a situation I will repay him. Ah, he warned me Ñ he knew the world better than I did, and what a hard and bitter struggle it is to live. But I must pay that dreadful woman ; this is Thursday ; I will write to George A First Novel. 205 Gifford to-day, and ask him to help me in this dreadful strait.' Having made up her mind to do this she lost no time in carrying out her determination. It was very bitter and painful for her to do it, but still she felt George Gifford would not grudge the money to save her from the galling humiliation of her position towards her landlady. Therefore, when she arrived at her poor rooms she wrote to him in the following words : Ñ ' Dear Mr Gifford, Ñ I have had a very great blow to-day, for I went to the publishers and found that my novel has been a complete failure. It was published on the half-profit system, and I was obliged to advance fifty pounds towards the expenses. The publishers 206 A Great Temptation, assure me there will be no profits, and that they will lose by it. I shall therefore be forced to give up the idea of being an author, and try to get some situation or other. In the mean- time, I am almost quite penniless, and owe my landlady three weeks' rent. Under these painful circumstances, I am going to ask you to lend me ten pounds until I can get a situation, when I shall be sure to repay you. Do you remember you warned me, and I said I had enough to live on for a year, and that before the year was over I should be earning my own living ? Little more than the year is over, and I have earned nothing but five pounds ! Forgive me for asking this favour of you, and troubling you with my annoyances, but you are an old A First Novel. 207 friend. Ñ With kind regards, sincerely yours, Laura Ingram.' She went out to post this letter after she had written it, and spent a miserable, restless, nay, almost a sleep- less night. If he should refuse? But still she did not think he would, and her belief was fully justified, for by eleven the next day she received a telegram from George GifTord, which Laura read with a grateful heart. ' I will send what you require with the greatest pleasure. You will re- ceive it by the first post to - morrow morning. In the meantime have no anxiety. Gifford.' Laura's eyes filled with tears after she read these brief words. How good 208 A Great Temptation. he was, how kind and thoughtful to telegraph, and thus relieve her mind, she thought. She knew that she had no grace to expect from Mrs Fryer, and the idea of being turned into the street, homeless, had filled her with ab- solute dismay. Now she could pay this woman and have a few days to look around. And the next morning's post did bring her the letter she expected with such feverish anxiety. It was a registered letter, and as she tore it open she saw that it contained two five-pound notes, a cheque, and a letter from Mr Gifford. She looked at the cheque, it was drawn in her name on a London Bank for fifty pounds and bore George Gif- ford's signature. Then she read the letter she held in her trembling hand. A First Novel. 209 'My Dear Miss Ingram, Ñ I thank you very much for your letter, and I have the greatest possible pleasure in forwarding you the little sum you require. I also enclose a cheque for fifty pounds, and have to-day lodged a further sum of one hundred pounds in your name in the same bank, which you can draw out as you require it. Thus you will have no reason to give up your writing, or think of going to a situation. For whatever your publishers may say, I am sure the book is a clever one that you sent me, and I think you should have had your lawyer with you when you made your agreement. How- ever, we can talk this over when I see you, as I propose to be in town on Monday next, and shall give myself the pleasure of calling to see vol. 1. o 210 A Great Temptation. you. I am, indeed, pleased that you did not forget your promise of remem- bering your country friend when you required anything. I propose calling about four o'clock on Monday, and, with kind regards, Ñ Remain yours faith- fully, George Gifford.' Laura heaved a great sigh of relief after she had read this letter, and then she sat down with it in her hand and thought of the kindly writer. But could she take his money, this fifty pounds, she might never be able to repay ? Still her luck might turn. She had heard of cruel hours of want and despair which some now famous writers had once gone through, and might not fortune smile on her also? At all events she could now pay the odious A First Novel. 2 1 1 woman of the house, and with a light- ened heart, she presently was proceed- ing down stairs for the purpose of getting one of her five-pound notes changed, when she met Mrs Fryer, who eyed her suspiciously. ' You're not going out, are ye, Miss Ingram?' she said. 'Yes, I am for a short time,' an- swered Laura. ' Then I wish you could settle with me before you do,' replied Mrs Fryer, in a bellicose tone. 'This is the day, you'll be pleased to remem- ber, that you promised to pay the four pounds ten you are owing me.' 'Yes, I know,' said Laura, with a mild feeling of triumph in her heart, 'and if you can change me a &ve- 212 A Great Temptation. pound note I will settle with you be- fore I go out.' It was positively amusing to watch the woman's change of expression. 'Oh! a five-pound note,' she said. ' Yes, miss, I can send out and get it changed in a minute.' Upon this Laura produced her purse, and her five-pound note, and placed the money in Mrs Fryer's hand. ' If you bring me the change and the receipt it will be all right,' said Laura, ' and I will wait for you upstairs.' Never had Mrs Fryer been so sur- prised, and there was actually a feeling of almost disappointment in her heart that she was unable to indulge in all the unpleasant things she had fixed to say. Still money is money, and with A First Novel. 2 1 3 the five-pound note in her hand she ran out of the house to her neighbour, Mrs Pond, who was standing in the area steps engaging in bargaining for vegetables from a hand-cart. She was just concluding her business when she saw Mrs Fryer with her cap awry, and excitement depicted on her ruddled face, hurry from her own house to hers. 1 Good morning, Mrs Fryer,' she said, 'come in and have a bit chat.' The two women descended the area steps together, Mrs Pond carrying her basket of potatoes and carrots, and Mrs Fryer brimful with her news. And they had scarcely reached the underground kitchen together, when she burst forth, Ñ ¥ She has paid me ! ' 214 A Great Temptation, 'What, Miss Ingram?' answered Mrs Pond in surprise, setting down her basket on the kitchen table. ' Not in full, surely ? ' * Yes, in full ; she owed four pounds ten, and here's the five - pound note she put in my hand to settle, and she's waiting for the change.' Both the women then examined the crisp bank note fresh from the bank, and could find no fault with it, and then they looked at each other. ' I wonder how she came by it,' re- marked Mrs Pond, ' she seemed poor enough.' ' A letter came for her this morning,' replied Mrs Fryer. ' It came in that then you may de- pend. Well, Mrs Fryer, it's well you've got your money. I think we A First Novel. 215 should have a drop to drink your health on it.' 'All right; I'll just get the change for her ladyship, for I can tell you she was as grand as could be when she gave me the note. I'll get it changed at the ' Saxon,' and I'll buy a bottle of brandy at the same time, and you come in and have a taste, for it's a nasty misty morning, and catches one by the throat.' Mrs Fryer accordingly carried out this plan, and quickly went up and rapped at Laura's sitting-room door. ' Come in,' said Laura, and the land- lady entered, all smiles and blandish- ments. 'Here is your change, Miss Ingram,' she said, 'and the receipt, and many thanks for the money. I am sure I 216 A Great Temptation. hope you are comfortable here,' she continued, looking contemplatively round her dingy apartment. ' I was thinking yesterday you wanted a new pair of shades. What colour do you prefer ? White, or one of those mixed up things, that I am told you hartist ladies set such a store on?' Laura could not help smiling. ' I really have no choice,' she said. ' Oh, but I wish to please you, Miss Ingram, and consult you on the deco- rations of your apartment. I'll see about the shades on Monday, and by that time you'll have thought out your choice of the colours.' After this the landlady left the room, and Laura smiled a little bitterly after she took her departure. A First Novel. 2 1 7 ' She's only like the rest,' she re- flected, 'and yet not all.' And at this moment she thought of George Gifford. CHAPTER X. A FRIEND IN NEED. Laura awoke the next morning with a feeling of rest, as though she had escaped from some great danger be- fore she even remembered what had happened the previous day. And it had been a great danger. But for the kindly friend who had helped her, where might she now have been ? Homeless and penniless in the vast city, which gives so warm a 218 A Friend in Need. 2 1 9 welcome to the rich, and so cold a shelter to the poor! ' I will work until I can repay him. Oh ! how hard I will work,' thought the girl, turning on her pillow with a restless sigh, and thinking of the cheque of fifty pounds which lay un- cashed in her escritoire. And as she looked at that escritoire, her thoughts went back to the weird secret it con- tained Ñ to the letter her dead father had left behind to darken her young life. In the overpowering anxiety she had lately gone through, she scarcely had had time to dwell on this. The fight for daily bread had been too keen, the struggle for life too great. Now she remembered it only too plainly, and the wreck it had brought to her own happiness. 220 A Great Temptation. ' But for that Ñ ' And she sighed deeply. But for that, she might not now have been alone. But for that the strong, dark face that she had loved so well might not have looked coldly on her. How often Laura had mused on that chance meeting in the Park, when Sir Ralph had bowed to her with such marked unfriendliness. The only possible way she could account for his conduct was that his feelings had completely changed to her. ' He cares for, perhaps he is married to, someone else,' she had told herself a thousand times. ' He had a brief fancy for me, and it has passed away, and yet I thought his nature was not fickle, but strong and deep Ñ but it could not have been.' A Friend in Need. 221 One after the other these thoughts passed through her mind this Sunday morning, as she lay reviewing her past life, while the bells were ringing for early service, and already the hum and bustle of the street was stirring below. And now ? What was before her now? The endless toil of a woman who has to make her daily bread. Laura's first experience in novel writing had been a failure, her publisher had assured her, therefore she had no bright prospects before her as regards literature. Hers was not to be one of those rare and swift ascents to fame that she had read of, and dreamed of, and on which she had built her hopes. ' But, perhaps, I may make enough to exist on/ she reflected. But it 222 A Great Temptation. was only 'perhaps.' It was a dreary enough forecast, and when she thought of the heavy debt she must incur even to try to continue her career as an author, the outlook was not cheerful. But we must live. How often is that sometimes cruel necessity forced on our minds. Live whether we are happy or miserable ; live whether we are rich or poor, until we are summoned hence. Laura thought this as she rose and dressed in the August sunshine. Then she went downstairs, and found the breakfast table laid out with new attention to cleanliness and comfort. True she had purchased some small luxuries the afternoon before in the shape of a fresh pat of butter, a new-laid tgg y and a brown A Friend in Need. 223 loaf. But Mrs Fryer was bent on being agreeable to her lodger. And her attentions continued during the whole day. It was a quiet Sunday for Laura. She did not go to church, but sat at the window looking down on the passers-by, each with his or her care, pent silent in the breast. 1 1 wonder if some of them are as weary as I am,' she kept thinking, watching the human stream. For she was weary, very weary. Weary of the joyless struggle, ' the constant anguish of patience.' She had literally done no- thing after more than twelve months of hard work, she told herself; work begun so full of hope. At last she turned from the window with a restless sigh, and took up a book to try to beguile her mind. But she was in no mood for 224 A Great Temptation. reading, her own thoughts overpowered the thoughts of the writer, and came crowding through her brain whether she would or no. And so the day wore away, and the morrow came, and in the afternoon George Clifford had said he would call. Laura womanlike made a little effort to improve the appearance of her room before the arrival of her visitor. She went out and bought a bunch of red roses at a flower stand in the street, and she shook the curtains into more grace- ful folds. She felt a little excited too, and not a little ashamed. She had been forced to ask help from this generous friend, but she felt herself degraded by having done so. She, so proud and self- reliant, shrank from the very name of borrowing. A Friend in Need. 225 She asked Mrs Fryer to bring up some tea at four o'clock, and cut a plate of bread and butter. ' As I expect a friend/ she said, with a faint blush stealing over her pale face. ' Oh, a friend ? ' replied Mrs Fryer in her would-be agreeable manner. 'Yes, a gentleman,' said Laura. 1 Oh, a gentleman ? ' again answered Mrs Fryer, and a peculiar look flitted over her ruddled face. She guessed at this moment where her rent had come from. But she also reflected 'good money is good money wherever it comes from.' ' Yes, my lawyer,' said Laura quickly ; 'so will you have tea ready by four, Mrs Fryer, as he said he would call then.' vol. 1. p 226 A Great Temptation. /Yes, certainly, Miss Ingram,' an- swered the portly landlady, and she bustled out of the room, and was as good as her word. And precisely at four o'clock a hansom drove up to Mrs Fryer's house, and from it descended what Mrs Fryer after- wards designated to her friend, Mrs Pond, ' a fine well-built young man.' This was George Gifford, and Mrs Fryer herself opened the door for him, and ushered him upstairs to Laura's room. Laura rose hastily to receive him, with a flush on her cheeks and a fast-beating heart. They were both, in fact, agitated, but it was Laura who spoke first. * I do not know how to thank you,' she faltered. ' There is nothing to thank me for, A Friend in Need. 227 answered George Gifford with grave kindliness, still holding her hand ; ' and I thank you very much for treating me as a friend.' 1 A friend indeed ! ' murmured Laura, almost below her breath, and a mist came over her eyes of unshed tears, which she turned away her head to hide. ' 1 hope you are comfortable here ? ' said George Gifford, glancing round the shabby room by way of changing the conversation. 1 Oh, fairly well,' answered Laura, with a faint attempt at a smile ; c but I have been too much occupied, too Ñ miserable, in fact, to care about my surroundings.' ' It is too noisy a place for a writer, I should say.' 228 A Great Temptation. 1 Yes Ñ but what can poor people do?' 'Come, you must not talk thus Ñ And have you been well all this hot weather ? ' And Gifford's kindly grey eyes rested inquiringly on Laura's altered face. ' Not very,' she answered ; * anxiety and worry are not good for one, you know.' ' Anything but that ; but you must have no more anxieties ; remember in future, I am your lawyer, your banker, and your friend/ ' How good you are ! ' said Laura, with genuine emotion. ' Please do not say that. But you must let me take you about a bit while I am in town. Would you like to go down the river for a day ? ' A Friend in Need. 229 ' Yes, very much ; to look again on the green grass would be a great treat after the noise and dust of the streets/ 'Suppose we go to-morrow, then, and we can dine at the " Star and Garter" at Richmond, and have a day's holiday ? ' ' It is very kind of you Ñ but Ñ ' * No, Miss Ingram, I won't listen to any " buts," ' smiled George GifTord, cheerily. He looked well, and brown, and happy, and presently, after they had had some tea, he proposed they should go out. 6 1 want to look at the shops/ he said ; ' and I suppose I ought to take my cousin, Anna Lindsay, some article of female finery or other, for one's 230 A Great Temptation. relations always expect something when one's been a visit to town ; so will you help me to choose something ? ' ' With pleasure, if you will tell me what the young lady is like?' 'Oh, well, I scarcely know/ laughed Gifford, good - temperedly. ' She's not plain, I think, exactly ; she's tall' ' What a description ! ' smiled Laura. 'One never looks at one's relations, you know,' answered Gifford, still laugh- ing. The idea seemed to amuse him for some reason or other ; and then he told her about his father, and her old acquaintance at Suffold, and exerted himself apparently to make her forget her troubles. They drove to Regent Street, and George Gifford made various purchases. A Friend in Need. 231 Then when they were at one big shop he looked at Laura half - shyly, half- pleasantly. 6 1 want to buy you something,' he said; 'what may I buy you?' But Laura shrank back. ' No,' she said, and she shook her head. 6 But why ? An old friend like I am, there can surely be no reason why I should not.' ' I should rather not take anything, really Ñ I am too deeply indebted to you already/ ' What nonsense ! Wouldn't you like one of those black lace mantilla things, or whatever you call them ? ' went on George Gifford, pointing out with his stick at some handsome Spanish black lace mantillas hanging in the window. 232 A Great Temptation. The obsequious shopman who was serving them speedily spread some similar ones before George Gifford and Laura, and in spite of Laura's whis- pered remonstrances, Gifford purchased the handsomest and most expensive one he could find. Then, after they returned to their cab, Laura said : * I really must scold you, Mr Gifford.' 'Well, I shall be very submissive/ he answered smiling. 1 To buy such an expensive thing as that! It is : quite unsuitable for me, you know ; you must take it to your cousin at Suffold.' ' It would be quite unsuitable for her,' laughed Gifford, good-naturedly ; ' a thing like that requires a graceful A Friend in Need. 233 woman ; now, poor Anna Ñ ' and again he laughed. ' But where shall we go next ? ' ? I shall go into no more shops with you,' said Laura positively. ' Well, you'll go to one of the theatres to-night, won't you, so I'll go and buy stall tickets.' * No, really I will not; will you take me home now, Mr Gifford ? ' 'Yes, if you like, but do go to one of the theatres ? ' But Laura declined, and so they drove back to Edgware Road, and when they arrived at Mrs Fryer's, Gifford, after handing Laura out, drew from the cab all the various purchases he had made, including the black lace mantilla, and followed Laura into the house, to the intense curiosity of Mrs 234 A Great Temptation. Fryer, who had opened the door for them. * I don't believe he's her lawyer/ she afterwards told Mrs Pond ; ' lawyer's ain't so fond of parting with their money ; and if you had seen the sight of parcels he brought in ; pounds and pounds worth ! ' In the meanwhile, in the drawing- room, Laura had found courage to approach the subject which had been on her mind ever since George Gifford's arrival. ' About that cheque for fifty pounds, Mr Gifford,' she said ; ' I cannot take so much, but if you will lend me twenty-five pounds of it, by the time that is spent, I surely will have made some money, and as soon as ever I can I will return it to you.' A Friendin Need. 235 George Gifford turned round and took her hand, for he had been placing some of the parcels he had carried in on the couch, when Laura addressed him. 'You scolded me a little while ago,' he said, 'and now I am going to scold you. What nonsense to talk about a little sum like that! Why, you are welcome to six times, and six times over the amount. Have you cashed the cheque yet ? ' 1 No, indeed, I have not' ' I'll get it cashed for you in the morning then, and you've not forgotten I've lodged a hundreds pounds in your name at the Union Bank. I have brought you your cheque-book, you see. And as he spoke he produced a cheque-book from his pocket and held it towards Laura. 236 A Great Temptation. i Oh ! Mr Gifford, you are far too good to me. I never can repay all your goodness ! ' 'Yes, you can/ answered George Gifford with some significance. ' But you are tired now, so I will go away, but to-morrow morning may I call at twelve, and we'll have a long day on the river?' * Yes/ answered Laura, and then they shook hands and he went away, and after he was gone Laura went to the window and stood looking absently down on the street below. She was thinking of George Gifford. How kind, how generous he was, how thoughtful for others, what a true and faithful friend. ' I wish I had married him long ago, before all this pain and trouble A Friend in Need. 237 came to me,' she reflected. ' I wish I had never seen Ralph Woodland's face.' Oh ! why could she not forget him ! She believed at this moment that George Gifford still liked her, but she knew also that the mysterious passion we call love would never thrill through her breast for him. She respected him, she had a strong regard for him, but that subtle instinct which draws two souls so near, was utterly absent from her heart. She felt restless and disturbed. The cheque-book that he had brought her was lying on the table before her, and her eyes vaguely fell on it. Then she opened the parcel containing the black mantilla he had given her, and tried it on, and the rich lace fell in grace- ful folds over her shapely shoulders. 238 A Great Temptation. 1 It hides my shabby dress/ she thought, not ill-pleased. It suited her artistic taste, and she determined to wear it the next day. And she did wear it. To George Gifford's great delight, when he arrived at Mrs Fryer's on the following morn- ing, he found Laura already dressed in a white gown, and his handsome gift. She wore also a large, wide - brimmed black hat, and her whole effect was graceful and picturesque. * How well you look,' he said, with his grey eyes fixed on her admiringly. ? Fine feathers,' answered Laura, smil- ing, lifting an end of her lace scarf. ' It certainly becomes you, and thank you very much for wearing it.' ' I could not resist it. My female vanity was too strong for me.' A Friend in Need. 239 ' I am very pleased, and now are you ready ? ' Then they started, and presently found themselves on the sunlit river, gliding onwards between its willowy banks. It was a glorious day. The sky, deep blue, flecked here and there with feathery clouds, and the breeze fresh and strong. It brought a bloom to Laura's pale cheeks, and a brightness to her eyes, and for the time at least her life did not seem dreary and weary. ' How beautiful the sunshine is,' she said, pulling off her glove and dipping one of her little hands into the sparkling water. ' It makes a great difference/ answered George Gifford, who was using his oars steadily. Laura turned round and laughed. His 240 A Great Temptation, common-place reply amused her some- how, and tickled her sense of humour. George Gifford was not, in fact, a man of poetic dreams or fancies. He was sensible, straightforward, and honest- hearted, and Laura knew him to be all this. But his mind was no more akin to hers than the flower to the sturdy oak. But of this he was quite uncon- scious. And this denseness made him pluck up his courage, and as they were walking together after leaving the boat on their way to the hotel, he once more asked her to be his wife. * Perhaps I should not speak now, when you are my guest,' he said, ' but will you give me a little hope, Laura ? ' 'It is so sudden. I Ñ I never thought of this,' faltered Laura. A Friend in Need. 241 4 1 thought of it, as you know, a long while ago, and I have thought of it ever since/ answered Gifford. 'And I can't bear to think of you struggling on alone in the world. I will try all I can to make you happy, Laura.' ' I am sure you would do that ; you are so good,' answered Laura, with downcast eyes. 1 1 don't know about goodness, but I know I would do my best for you, and a man can do no more.' ' No, indeed.' ' Don't answer now unless you like, continued Gifford, ' but think it over, and it will make me very happy if your answer is favourable.' 'Very well,' half whispered Laura, and not another word was said on the sub- ject during the rest of the day, until vol. 1. Q 242 A Great Temptation. just as they were parting at Mrs Fryer's door on their return. 1 Let me know to-morrow,' said Gifford in a low tone, as he warmly pressed Laura's hand in his, and the next moment he was gone. END OF VOL. I. CHAPTER I. NEWS OF MARRIAGE. Laura Ingram did * think it over,' most seriously, after George Gifford left. She thought of her position and his ; a life of toil and struggle on one hand, of ease and comfort on the other. And she liked him ; liked this kindly, honest gentleman, with his somewhat countrified and old-fashioned VOL. II. A 2 A Great Temptation. ideas ; but Ñ ah, how often in the lives of fair women that momentous ' but ' occurs ! ' He can give me much, but I do not love him,' said her heart. 1 He can give me daily bread, and I may starve/ on the other hand spake reason and common sense. And after a struggle Ñ a long struggle Ñ reason and common sense prevailed. The romance of her life was done and ended, Laura Ingram told herself, but the reality remained. She would have no troubles about money as George Gifford's wife, and she would make him a good wife. He should never regret his generosity and kindness to her ; he should never know that the very essence that makes marriage sacred was absent from her heart. So, when he came the next day, News of Mawiage. 3 nervous and anxious Ñ for he really loved her Ñ Laura received him with a blush and a smile. He took her hand, he looked into her face, and something there gave him hope. ' Will you give me your answer now ? ' he asked, a little tremulously. 'Yes,' answered Laura, in a low tone, with her eyes cast down. ' Laura, will you be my wife ? ' 'Yes,' again answered Laura, and, when he heard the welcome mono- syllable, he caught her in his arms and kissed her sweet lips. ' My dear, dear girl ! You have made me so happy ! ' he exclaimed, and he stood there holding both her hands, his heart full of infinite con- tent. ' I am sure my father will be 4 A Great Temptation. pleased/ he said presently. ' You will make the old house quite bright, Laura.' 6 1 will do my best/ she answered softly. 1 And I will do my best to make you happy.' e I am sure you will/ 'And you won't mind settling down in a country town, will you, dear ? ' inquired George Gifford, with just a touch of anxiety in his tone. f Oh, no, I have not found much happiness here/ answered Laura, and she suppressed a sigh as she spoke. *Well, you know, we can run up to London whenever you like,' said George Gifford cheerily. 'You'll want to come up about your books and News of Marriage. 5 stories, won't you? But perhaps you won't write now ? ' 'We shall see,' smiled Laura. ' Well, just as you please ; at all events, you need not do it for the sake of pocket-money,' replied George Gifford, also smiling. 1 It has not brought me in much pocket-money.' 1 Never mind, you shall have pocket- money without it. And now, Laura, dear, let us sit down and talk it all over. To begin with, I hope you won't think me selfish when I ask for our marriage to be very soon.' 'Why very soon, George?' ' Well, to tell you the truth, I don't like leaving you alone in London any longer. I suppose I am jealous,' B he added, with a laugh, 'but there it is! 6 A Great Temptation. You are too handsome to be alone, Laura, and want your husband to take care of you.' Laura sighed softly. c And why should we wait?' con- tinued George GifTord in his practical way. e There is nothing to wait for. We have both made up our minds, and I want to take my dear wife with me when I go home this time.' 'Not this time?* 'Yes, this time. I don't want to leave you any more, Laura. I will write and tell my father to-day that we have settled it all, and we can be married quite well in a day or two.' 'Oh, that is too soon.' c No, indeed, it's not. Come, Laura, if you will give way to me about News of Marriage. 7 this, I'll give way to you often and often.' Laura was silent. ' I want you to promise,' urged George Gifford, taking her hand. But Laura still hesitated. 1 Don't you think it would be better to wait a few weeks ? ' she said. 1 No, indeed, 1 don't ! This is Thurs- day ; suppose we are married to-day week, for I'm afraid I can't take a very long holiday, and my father is getting too old to look after the business.' ' But you can come back ? ' ' No, dear, I don't want to lose sight of you. I would be fit for nothing down there worrying about you. Come, Laura, let us fix to-day week.' And after a little more urging, and a little more delay, they did fix it. In 8 A Great Temptation. a week Laura was to be George Gifford s wife, and George Gifford finally left her to purchase the engagement ring, feeling entirely happy. And what did Laura feel when he was gone ? She sat down and sighed after the door closed behind him, and put her slender hand over her face. And a face Ñ strong, dark and intellectual Ñ not George Gifford's face, rose before her mental vision. ' I hope I shall never see him more ; I pray I shall never see him more/ she thought, and then again she sighed. But presently she roused herself. 1 How weak I am,' she said, half aloud, ' even to think of him, when he has quite forgotten me, and I have pro- mised to be the wife of another man. News of Marriage, 9 Of a good man ; a kind man, who will give me a sheltered home, and whom I truly like. And he seems so happy, too Ñ almost like a boy Ñ and I must try to make him always so.' In the meanwhile George Gifford was hurrying to a jeweller's shop, where he purchased a very handsome diamond engagement ring, a plain gold wedding ring, and a pearl keeper. They had settled to go out in the afternoon, and he wished to take his rings with him when he returned to Edgware Road. Then he went back to his hotel, and wrote the following letter to his father at Suffold:Ñ ' My Dear Father, Ñ I am going to give you a little surprise, but I hope it will be a pleasant one. I am going io A Great Temptation. to be married in a week to Miss Laura Ingram, and when I return home I hope to bring my wife with me. I have wished this for a long time ; and before Laura left Suffold, at the time of the old Major's death, I proposed to her, but we did not become engaged at that time. How- ever, we have settled it all now, and I hope you will be fond of your new daughter, and I am sure she will be worthy of your affection. As I shall be absent about a fortnight or three weeks longer, I have written some directions to Johnson at the office, but have requested him to consult you before acting in any matter. I pro- pose to settle the seven thousand pounds my dear mother left me on Laura, but this matter can wait over until News of Marriage. 1 1 my return. Ñ And I remain, dear father, your affectionate son, 'George Gifford.' This letter sped on its way, and was delivered the next morning at a tall, handsome, red house, standing in the Market Place of Suffold, which con- tained some of the best houses in the town. Red House was, however, the most imposing-looking of them all. It stood back from the street, and had a small railed-in garden in front and a large old-fashioned garden at the back, where grew and flourished apricot, apple and pear trees, flowers and sweet-smelling herbs of every description. The old man Ñ Mr George Gifford, senior Ñ was fond of his garden, and 12 A Great Temptation. spent a considerable sum of money on it yearly. He had walked - in it with his fair young wife by his side ; she had planted yon rose-tree clambering on the wall ; their boy had played in it. In fact, a hundred tender recollec- tions were connected in Mr Gifford's mind with this well-kept piece of ground; and now, with his bowed, white head, he walked daily in it still. He was a fine-looking, elderly man, and was held in high repute among his fellow townsmen. For one thing, he was known to be rich ; for another, his character for honour and just deal- ing had never been impugned. And now, let us look at the old lawyer on the morning that George Gifford's letter arrived at Suffold in News of Marriage. 1 3 which he announced his intended mar- riage to Laura Ingram. He was sitting with his back to the window at the breakfast-table, with double gold- rimmed glasses on his well-shaped nose, reading the morning papers. His clear skin made him look younger than he was, though both his hair and whiskers were white. He was, in fact, over seventy, but carried his years well, and looked in good if not robust health. Opposite to him at the breakfast- table sat his niece, Miss Anna Lind- say. She also had a clear skin, and a well-shaped nose, and reddish-tinted, abundant hair, in which there were, however, many lines of grey. But she was a good-looking woman, and her form was full and comely. Her eyes 14 A Great Temptation. were very peculiar. They were of a remarkably light reddish-brown tint, and her eyelashes were scant. She was, it was said, middle-aged, but she did not admit this. She called her- self the same age as her cousin George, and had ever since her arrival at Red House determined to remain there as its future mis- tress. She was talking pleasantly to her uncle when a neat maid brought in the letters on a silver salver. There were two ; one for Mr Gifford and one for Miss Lindsay ; and as she placed them on the table Miss Lindsay at once recognised her cousin George's handwriting. ' This is from George,' she said to her uncle, rising and putting it in his News of Marriage. 1 5 hand ; ' I suppose it will be to let us know when he is coming- back.' Mr Gifford opened the envelope, and settled his glasses more evenly on his nose, and then commenced to read his son's letter, and Miss Lindsay was so interested to hear the news about her cousin that she left her own letter unopened. ' Why, bless me!' cried old Mr Gifford the next minute, in a tone of utter astonishment, ' whoever would have believed this ? ' 'What is the matter?' asked Anna Lindsay, rising, and a sudden flush rose to her face as she spoke. 6 Why, George is going to be mar- ried Ñ actually married Ñ in a week to Miss Ingram, you know, the old 1 6 A Great Temptation. Major's daughter Ñ well, I am sur- prised ! ' No word came from Anna Lindsay's lips. Her face blanched suddenly ; she grasped the back of her chair as if for support, and her breath came in strange, heaving, painful gasps. ' I never knew there was anything between them,' continued the old law- yer ; ' yet he says he offered to her when her father died, which is more than a year ago now. Well, she's a handsome girl Ñ but you didn't know her, Anna, she had left Suffold before you came here.' Still Miss Lindsay did not speak. In fact, she could not ; her tongue seemed paralysed ; her lips refused to utter ; and her uncle, surprised by her silence, looked up from his son's letter, News of Marriage. 1 7 and glanced at his niece's white face. * Why, Anna, what is the matter ? How ill you look/ he said. 1 It is nothing,' muttered Anna Lind- say, hoarsely, and then, without an- other word, she walked feebly to the door. She had had a great and ter- rible shock, and for the first time a dim consciousness of the truth dawned on her uncle's mind. He had never dreamed that she had ever thought of George in any other light than as a cousin before. For one thing, she was older than George ; and, for another, George had always spoken of her somewhat carelessly. But, after she had almost staggered from the room, the old man sat feeling very uncom- fortable. He was fond of his niece, VOL. II. B 1 8 A Great Temptation. and he began to be afraid that George had not treated her well. 'Poor Anna! I'm afraid she's put out about this engagement,' he thought uneasily. ' Well, it's too sudden. George should have consulted me a bit, I think Ñ and yet young men will be young men ; ' and he sighed, remem- bering his own youth, and his ardent wooing of the woman he had loved. At all events, George's letter pre- vented two people eating their break- fasts. Mr Gifford felt no appetite, and Miss Lindsay did not return to the room. She had retired to her own, feeling that one blow had made her future life utterly desolate. CHAPTER II AT RED HOUSE. She had, in truth, cared for her cousin George with an overwhelming love. She had never remembered her years nor her grey hairs. She had been, of course, constantly thrown with him for many months, and, being a good- looking, personable woman, she had never doubted that in time he would return her attachment. Once or twice she had made her feelings rather evident, and George had drawn back 19 20 A Great Temptation. warily, Therefore she had deter- mined to wait. She was an excellent housekeeper, and knew that men like well - cooked and well - ordered meals, and so she devoted her energies to these points, and everything was served to perfection at Red House after her arrival there. And now to hear that George was engaged, that he was actually to be married in a week, that he would bring his wife in all likelihood to the very house, where she had reigned so long as mistress, filled her heart with alternate paroxysms of rage, despair and misery. She locked the door of her room and flung herself passionately on the floor, writhing there like a creature who had received a mortal wound. At Red House. 2 1 1 Why was I born, why was I born ? ' she moaned in her anguish. No tears came to her relief, but there was a choking sensation in her throat, and she gasped as if for breath. And she could do nothing ! She was powerless to stop this marriage for one single day. And she knew also that George Gifford had given her no just cause for complaint. He had always been kind and good-natured to her, but nothing more. And now it was all over. She would be nothing to him, and this strange woman would take her place ! A baneful light came into her curious red-brown eyes. She clenched her well- formed hands and ground her strong, white teeth. Could she part them after marriage if she could not before ? This 22 A Great Temptation. girl that he had picked up in London might have a past, and that past might not be all clear. The woman's face hardended as the thought flashed through her brain. If she were wretched, they might become wretched too. She would take her re- venge somehow ; and, having come to this determination, she endeavoured to calm herself. She had a part to play, and she must play it. So when the lunch hour came she reappeared at her place at the table, and endeavoured to hide her bitter emotions from her uncle's kindly eyes. She only partly succeeded in this, but Mr Gifford felt sorry for her, and when he spoke of George's coming marriage he did not look in her face. Miss Lindsay also spoke of it, and At Red House. 23 asked Mr Gifford if he had written to George. ' Not yet, my dear,' answered the old lawyer ; ' it is all too sudden for my fancy. But, of course, George has known her for years, and was a good deal with her when he was engaged winding up her father's affairs.' 'And did Major Ingram leave any money ? ' inquired Miss Lindsay. * Very little. He left everything in a sad jumble, and this girl went to London to try to support herself by her pen or her paint-brush, for she's a clever, accom- plished young lady, I am told, and very good-looking.' Miss Lindsay winced. ' However, we must make the best of it, whatever she is,' continued the old gentleman. ' She is George's choice, 24 A Great Temptation. and I trust she will make him happy.' ' And will they live here, do you think ? ' ' Of course, they will live here, my dear ; there is surely room for us all?' ' Oh, yes ; but she may not like my being here.' 1 My dear Anna, I asked you to live here, and this is your home as long as you choose to remain,' said Mr Gifford decidedly. And as he spoke Miss Lindsay rose and kissed the old man on the brow. ' Thank you, uncle,' she said ; ' it would have grieved me very much to be obliged to part with you.' 'There is no question of parting,' he answered kindly. ' I look on you as a At Red House, 25 daughter, and I mean to treat you as such.' Tears rushed into Miss Lindsay's eyes, and she leaned her hand on her uncle's shoulder. ' I will try always to be a daughter to you,' she said, and so the little scene ended, and Miss Lindsay was satisfied, at least, that she would not lose her home. In the meanwhile, the two most con- cerned in this conversation were busy making preparations for the event which had created such a sensation at Red House. George Gifford was most generous to his betrothed in providing the necessary trousseau, and cashed the hundred pounds he had placed in the bank in her name, and placed the money in her hand, as 26 A Great Temptation. well as the fifty pounds he had already- given her. To Laura a hundred and fifty pounds seemed quite a little fortune to spend on her own adornment, as in her fathers time her pocket-money had been of a very scant description. But imagine her astonishment when one day George brought a letter to her from his father, which the old man had enclosed in one to his son, and in this letter to Laura there was a cheque for five hundred pounds. ' I send the cheque,' wrote Mr Gifford, in his crabbed somewhat feeble handwriting, ' for you to buy yourself a wedding present with. You will know better what you like than I could select for you, as I am At Red House. 27 an old-fashioned man, and do not understand about ladies' dress or jewellery. But I wish to give you something to show that my new daughter is welcome to me, and I send you my hearty congratulations. George has been a good son to me, and I am sure he will make you a good husband. Trusting soon to see you at Red House, Ñ I remain, yours sincerely, George Gifford, Senior.' ' Oh, George ! how kind, how good of him,' said Laura, after she had read this letter, and saw the amount of the cheque. 'You must take this money as my little fortune, George,' she added, placing the cheque in his hand, but George refused to receive it. 1 No, thank you, dear,' he said, 28 A Great Temptation. laughing, 'this is my father's present to you, and I've no doubt you 11 find plenty to do with it in Paris when you get there/ Thus, for the first time in her life, Laura had plenty of money at her command, and bought pretty gowns and bonnets and hats to please George, who delighted to see her well dressed. There was no shabby black frocks to be seen now, and Laura became her new garments wonderfully, and selected them with great taste and judgment. She looked indeed a most graceful, handsome young woman during the few remain- ing , days before her marriage, and George GirTord felt vastly proud of her, and was only sorry there were so few people in town to see him At Red House. 29 daily with the beautiful girl so soon to be his wife. And we must not suppose that all these changes were unobserved down- stairs in the house in Edgware Road. At first Mrs Fryer could not make it out, and she confided to her friend Mrs Pond that she thought ' it looked remarkably queer.' ' The parcels that come in are beyond everything, and she dresses as fine as a queen now ; her who till this gentle- man came had scarcely a rag to her back.' But what was her excitement when one morning Laura rang the bell and asked to see her, to tell her she would no longer require the rooms. ' I am going to be married to Mr Gifford on Thursday morning, Mrs 30 A Great Temptation. Fryer,' she said quietly, ' and after that will leave here/ The landlady's face fell visibly. ' Oh, indeed, miss ! Well, I thought something must be going on, but was in hopes you might remain with me, as we've been so comfortable/ 4 But Mr Gifford lives in the country,' smiled Laura. 'Well, I hope you'll be happy, with my best respects ; of course, miss, you'll not forget I was to have a month's notice before leaving.' ' No, I shall not forget,' answered Laura, still smiling. ' I will pay you for a month from to-day.' ' And if you could recommend me, miss, I'll be much obliged ; or if you and Mr Gifford come to stay in town in the season I'll be proud to have At Red House. 3 1 you here. I'm sure he's a fine, pleasant-looking gentleman as ever I saw. As I said to my neighbour Mrs Pond, the first day he set his blessed feet over the doorstep, " I never. Mrs Pond,' says I, "saw a finer, hand- somer gentleman ; " those were my very words/ Laura could not help giving a little laugh. This woman, who had been so insolent, so careless, in the days of her poverty, was now all flattery and smiles. ' I owe it all to you, George,' she said, an hour later, putting her hand gratefully into her lover's, who bent down and kissed it with his honest lips. ' And what do I owe to you, my darling ? ' he answered. ' You have made me the happiest of men.' 32 A Great Temptation. He never saw that Laura's heart was not his. His mind was not acute enough to realise the great difference between them. But Laura saw this more plainly every day. He was every- thing that was kind and thoughtful, but she often found she had very little to say to him. George talked of Red House, and the furniture ; and Laura's thoughts wandered away as he did so. George talked of his business and the money he meant to settle on her, and he laughed a little, not unkindly though, at Anna Lindsay ; but Laura was not interested. She had none of the deep, sweet happiness which glows in the hearts of loving brides thinking of the coming days to be spent with him. His home was to be hers, but she did not care to talk about it. She was A t Red House. 3 3 most grateful to him, but she felt the time he spent with her sometimes very long. But the days passed away, and there was much to be done and thought of during the time of their brief engage- ment. . George insisted on ordering two bridescakes, one to be sent to Suffold, and the other to Edgware Road. He declared it would not be lucky to have none at the house from which they were to be married. They had settled that Laura was to be married in her travel- ling costume, but they were to return to Edgware Road after the ceremony for lunch, and also to collect their luggage. On the night before they were married he brought his bridal gift for her acceptance Ñ a thin, slender gold vol. 11. c 34 A Great Temptation. necklet, binding together seven diamond stars. It was a beautiful thing, and he claimed the privilege of clasping it for the first time round her white throat. 1 Fancy me having diamonds, George ! ' she said. ' No one could look better in them/ he answered with a pleased smile. In fact no man was* ever happier at the prospect of his marriage than George Gifford. He was proud and fond of his future wife, and never saw the strange, wistful far-away look that sometimes crept into Laura's dark eyes. But the swift hours fled on, and in the pale summer dawn Laura awoke to the knowledge that this was her wedding day. It seemed all so strange ! She was going back to the very town At Red Hotise. 35 she had left, meaning never to return ; going back with George Gifford, whom she had never meant to marry. * Our lives are not in our own keep- ing,' she thought ; ' we float hither and thither as the stream bears us onwards, and never can tell where we shall find ourselves.' And this certainly seemed very true with her, for actually when she went down to breakfast she found a letter await- ing her from the publisher of her novel, informing her that he hoped that the book was going to be a success after all, or at least certainly not a failure as he had feared. He, too, requested her to be good enough to call at his office, and expressed a hope that he might also publish the next work she gave to the world. 36 A Great Temptation. Laura sighed deeply as she read this letter, and sat down to think. If this letter had come a week ago this would not have been her wedding day ! She knew this only too well. She had promised to marry George Gifford to escape the miserable uncertainty of her position. And now, and now Ñ A ring at the house door interrupted her reflections, and a minute later George, radiant in a white waistcoat, with a white flower in his button-hole, hurried into the room, carrying a beauti- ful bouquet as an offering to his bride. c I ordered it yesterday at Covent Garden,' he said with some pride. 'They've not done it badly, have they, darling ? ' ' It is too lovely,' answered Laura, with her face bent over the white At Red House. 37 blossoms, and with a strange fluttering at her heart. ' Read that,' she added the next minute, putting the publisher's letter into his hand. ' Oh, he's singing a different tune now,' said George, after he had finished it. ' Well, thank goodness, publishers need be nothing to you now.' ' 1 must write to him to-day,' answered Laura. ' Oh, don't bother ; let him wait ; you can write to him from Paris.' ' Very well,' said Laura, and the sub- ject was dropped, but Laura thought of it more than once on her wedding day. The quiet ceremony took place at eleven o'clock, and Laura Ingram be- came George Gifford's wife. She looked pale, but her lips did not falter as she 38 A Great Tei7iptation. spoke the solemn words which bound her life to his. She was dressed in a rich soft grey silk, and looked very handsome, even Mrs Fryer admitted, who, with her friend Mrs Pond, had hastily followed the carriage which had conveyed the bride and bridegroom to church. ' Well, who would have thought she would have made such a fine end/ whispered Mrs Fryer in Mrs Ponds ear, as they watched the two standing before the altar ; 'I'm certain many a time before he came she hadn't enough to eat.' 6 There's ups and downs wherever you turn,' responded Mrs Pond philo- sophically, 'and it's her turn to be up this day.' At Red House. 39 It was all over almost as the two women spoke. George and Laura had vowed to be true to each other as long as they both should live, and each certainly meant to keep their troth. Then George kissed his wife very tenderly, and they went into the vestry to sign their names, and Mrs Fryer and Mrs Pond hurried home as fast as they had come, gossiping as they went. The newly-made husband and wife returned to Mrs Fryer's for lunch, and then started on their bridal trip to Paris, delighting Mrs Fryer's heart before they went by leaving the brides- cake behind them, as well as sundry bottles of champagne in which to drink their health. George also telegraphed to his father, and the following tele- 40 A Great Temptation. gram arrived at Red House an hour after they were married : Ñ ' All right ; we were married this morning ; off to Paris. Gifford.' A white-faced woman read these words, and a cold and bitter pang shot through her heart. It was all over, then. Per- haps she had kept hoping that some- thing unforeseen might occur to pre- vent the marriage, but she could have no such delusion now. George was married ; the man she had loved was another woman's husband, and Anna Lindsay's life, to her mind, was wrecked, and her happiness ended. Her uncle had given her the tele- gram to read, and as he glanced at her one moment he saw her white At Red House. 41 drawn face, and drew his own conclu- sions. But he said nothing. Anna Lindsay tried to say a few words, and then turned away, and went through the rest of the day as best she could. She was forced to endure it, but not less did she suffer her silent pain. Then in a few days came a letter from George, a letter full of * dear Laura,' and his own happiness. 1 I am so glad I brought dear Laura here/ he wrote, ' as she has never been in Paris before, and is delighted with it. We go shopping, and have great fun, and I am turning a regular domestic man, and carry parcels, etc., quite meekly. 1 A regular bridegroom's letter,' said old Mr Gifford, smiling, after he had 42 A Great Temptation. read his son's words, which were bub- bling all over with his own joy. But he did not give it to his niece to read. ' Well, well,' he added, returning it to its envelope, ' they'll settle down in time.' 1 Does he say anything about the time he will return ? ' asked Miss Lind- say, with faltering lips. 4 In a fortnight, he thinks. I'm sure I wish he was back, as we get on very badly without him at the office, ' answered Mr Gifford. Miss Lindsay asked no more ques- tions. She did not want to read the ' regular bridegroom's letter,' or to hear about the bride. She hated her already, and her very name was gall and worm- wood to her soul. Other letters came from George, and finally the day of their return was fixed. At Red House. 43 Mr Gifford gave his niece a cheque to buy some new furniture and curtains for the rooms intended for the newly-wedded pair, and Anna Lindsay bought these grudgingly, and made all arrangements with a bitter heart. And she grew very restless as the time drew near for the bride's arrival at her new home. The old man also grew a little nervous. He had come to the age when most people dislike change. And George's marriage was sure to bring many changes in the quiet household. At last the momentous day dawned, and George telegraphed to his father that they were in town, and would be at Suffold by dinner time. Miss Lindsay ordered the dinner with a gloomy brow, and wondered if this would be the last one she would be 44 A Great Temptation. expected to give orders in the house. Mr Gifford brought out some of his best wine, and the maids donned new caps and aprons, and everyone was anxious to have a look at the bride. And about seven o'clock on a bright evening, early in September, Laura re- entered the town where she had lived with her father, and where, during the closing months of her residence there, she had gone through such mental dis- tress and pain. She thought of this as George handed her from the train ; as she stood waiting on the platform for him to collect her luggage, and as the two drove together to Red House in the carriage George had requested to be in readiness for them. It seemed all so familiar to Laura, At Red House. 45 and yet so strange. There were the very shops she used to deal with, but somehow they seemed to have dwindled, and the whole town grown smaller. * How do you think the old place looks ? ' asked George, taking her hand. * Welcome back to Suffold, my darling.' It must be admitted that Laura thought the old place looked very dreary. Suffold is just one of those country towns where everything and everyone seem fast asleep. On market days Ñ the Saturdays Ñ there is a little more life. The country folks around come in to buy their groceries, that is the women-folk, and the men to sell their sheep and cattle, and drink together over their bargains. To Laura, fresh from Paris and \6 A Great Temptation. London, the quiet, empty streets seemed inexpressibly dull, but she did not tell her thoughts to George. ' It feels strange coming back,' she said, bending out of the carriage. * It will a bit, at first, but that will soon wear off, and I think you'll like Red House. Anna Lindsay has been doing it up very smart for us, I hear. I wonder how you will like Anna ? I am sure you will be fond of my father.' * I hope he will be fond of me,' answered Laura gently, and she turned round and looked at George with a smile. She was looking very well, and was dressed in a grey French travelling cloak, and a large grey felt hat, with long grey feathers. She was a graceful, At Red House. 47 distinguished-looking woman as she sat there by her husband's side, and George felt, not unreasonably, very proud of her. Then they turned into the market-place, and a few minutes later the carriage drew up in front of Red House, and the bride and bridegroom were at home. Jealous eyes were watching for them, and kindly ones. The door flew open, and servants ran down the door steps, and George saw his father's white head, who was waiting to welcome them in the hall. He handed Laura out of the carriage, he drew her arm through his, and led her up the steps to the house, and there his father met them, and warmly extended his hand to Laura. 'This is my new daughter, I suppose,' 48 A Great Temptation, he said, smiling. ' Welcome home, my dear.' A little behind old Mr Gififord stood a lady with reddish hair turning grey. This was Miss Lindsay, who was pale and agitated, and her red-brown eyes were fixed jealously on the bride. But even she secretly acknowledged her grace and beauty. It made her more bitter, but she could not deny it. ' Well, Anna, how are you ? ' cried George, after shaking his father's hand, holding his hand kindly to Anna Lind- say. ' Anna, this is my wife ; this is my cousin Anna, dear.' The wife and cousin shook hands also, and Laura wondered what made Miss Lindsay's face so pale. Could she have At Red House. 49 seen into her heart her own also might have paled. The woman whose hand she just had taken had vowed to mar the happiness of the young wife. VOL. II. CHAPTER III. LIFE IN A COUNTRY TOWN. Miss Lindsay had certainly ordered a very good dinner for the entertainment of the bride, yet when old Mr Gifford offered his arm to his son's wife, and led her to the head of the table opposite his own seat, Anna Lindsay felt a fresh pang in her envious breast. Laura was looking very handsome, and the excitement of her new sur- roundings had becomingly flushed her oval cheeks. She wore a French dress 50 Life in a Country Town. 51 of moss green silk, and rich white lace ruffles at wrist and throat, and when she had been dressing George had gone out into the garden and gathered her some white roses. Altogether he had every reason to be proud of her, and proud he certainly was. He saw his father's kindly eyes resting on her face, and we may be sure that his own did also. Laura exerted herself to be charming, and old Mr GifTord declared after dinner, over his old port, that he had quite fallen in love with her. This delighted George. He began to recount how clever she was ; how they had called by his request at the publisher's of her novel as they passed through town, and how civil and complimentary he had been. 52 A Great Temptation. 1 He has asked her to write another book for him,' said George, proudly, 'and, of course, she may, just to amuse herself, but, as I told the publisher, she has no need to write now.' 'No, of course, not,' answered his father, sipping his port, ' still if she has talents it seems a pity to waste them.' 1 She has got a husband to work for her now,' continued George proudly. But he said nothing of the dire straits from which he had relieved her. This was a subject never mentioned at Red House ; indeed, George had asked Laura to say nothing about it. 'There is no good in telling every- thing, my darling,' he had said in his sensible way. ' We can keep our own counsel ; and it was one of the hap- Life in a Country Town. 53 piest moments in my life when you wrote and told me of your troubles, for it showed you trusted me.' Thus neither old Mr Gifford nor Anna Lindsay had the slightest idea to what great poverty Laura had been reduced before she had married George. Mr Hay, the banker at Suffold, had an idea, but he was a discreet man, and said nothing about it, not caring to run the risk of offending one of the best depositors at the bank. In the meanwhile, when George, it must be admitted, was boasting some- what of her abilities and beauty to his father, Laura and Miss Lindsay were carrying on rather a strained conversa- tion in the drawing-room. Miss Lind- say was a woman that knew nothing of books or pictures; nothing, in fact, that 54 A Great Temptation. was in the least interesting to Laura. She had always lived in a narrow groove, and her mind was content to dwell therein. Servants and gossip were her themes. Had she had chil- dren, they, no doubt, would have been inflicted on her friends. But she had missed this most amiable of common- place subjects. Therefore Laura and she had nothing to say to each other. She was also full of envy of Laura's dress and general appearance. The Parisian -made gown, the rich lace were wormwood and gall to her. ' So absurd dressing as if she were going to a dinner party,' she sat thinking. She was conscious that her own black silk, had been made two years ago, and by a country dressmaker. The sleeves were old- Life in a Country Town. 55 fashioned, and the skirt hung badly, and these faults did not add to Miss Lindsay's good-temper. She was a good-looking woman in her way, but what chance had she to look well, she thought bitterly, by the side of this over-dressed creature. So when George and his father came into the drawing-room they found the ladies almost in silence. Then Miss Lindsay rose and rang for tea and coffee, and proceeded to arrange a card - table, and laid out two packs of cards. 1 I suppose you play whist, Mrs George ? ' she said, looking sourly at the bride. 1 No, indeed I do not ; I cannot endure cards,' answered Laura, smil- ingly. 56 A Great Temptation. 1 That is a pity,' continued Miss Lindsay, * as my uncle is extremely fond of his rubber, and you would have made the fourth if you had played. We used to play with a dummy.' 1 Never mind me, my dear Anna/ said old Mr Gifford, good-temperedly. 6 Oh, but I do mind you, uncle, and I know you enjoy your rubber. We must play with a dummy to- night ? ' ' No/ said George, who had seated himself by the side of his young wife. ' I am not going to play to- night, and Laura is tired with her journey, and so we'll not sit up late.' Miss Lindsay said nothing more. She put away the cards with an injured air, and she went and sat Life in a Country Town. 57 beside her uncle, who speedily dozed over in a nap into his easy chair. ' It's not good for him to sleep in his chair,' remarked Miss Lindsay in a low tone when she saw this, 6 but he always does when he can- not get his rubber.' ' I must try to learn to play,' said Laura, and George looked at her gratefully. On the whole Laura found her first evening at Red House anything but lively. Miss Lindsay was so entirely uncompanionable to her, that the idea of her constant society was far from agreeable. And the next morning something annoying also occurred. After break- fast was over, and George and his 58 A Great Temptation. father had gone to the office, Miss Lindsay came into the room where Laura was sitting reading the news- papers, and addressed some words to her which she had evidently come in prepared to say. ' About the housekeeping, Mrs George,' she said; * shall I carry it on as usual ? Laura looked up quietly from her paper. ' No, I think I had better do that,' she answered, 'as I am George's wife.' Anna Lindsay's clear skin flushed scarlet. 1 My uncle is very particular,' she said in a voice that trembled with anger, ' and do you think you are competent to order dinners and every- Life in a Country Town. 59 thing ? I thought authoresses were quite above being good housekeepers.' 'I must try to learn,' replied Laura, still quietly. * Oh, very well, Mrs George ! Then do you want to take possession of all the keys ? ' * Yes, please I shall need them, you know, when I am looking after the housekeeping.' Without another word Miss Lind- say flounced out of the room, and a few minutes later returned, carrying a key basket. 1 There is the cellar key, Mrs George ! ' she said in tones of sup- pressed indignation, putting a large key down with unnecessary force on the table, ' and there is the store- closet key, and the linen-press key, 60 A Great Temptation. and the jam-closet key. Perhaps you would like the larder key also, but at present cook keeps that?' Laura made no answer. Her clear skin flushed, and she put out her hand and drew the keys a little nearer to her, while Miss Lindsay's red, brown eyes positively flashed with anger. ' 1 can only say my uncle regards me as a daughter,' she said, ' yet the very second day you are in the house you wish to take all authority from me ! I don't know what my uncle will say.' ' We had better inquire what he wishes ; I naturally supposed, as George's wife, I should be the mistress of the house,' answered Laura, rising with some dignity of manner. ' Oh ! very well, I am not disputing it,' sneered Miss Lindsay; 'you have Life in a Country Town. 61 got the keys, and I suppose I had best send cook up to you.' ' Thank you,' said Laura coldly, and Miss Lindsay retired from the room feeling that she was defeated, and with her heart full of animosity and bitter- ness. But this little scene had been very unpleasant to Laura. And when the cook appeared for orders Ñ a majestic woman, with white bibbed apron and cuffs, and a large, fat, flowery face Ñ it must be admitted that Laura felt very much puzzled what to provide for dinner. Mrs Nisbet, the cook, was, however, not disagreeable like Miss Lindsay. Perhaps she preferred a younger mis- tress, and concluded that her dealings in the matters of butter and dripping, 62 A Great Temptation. would not be looked after so sharply as during Miss Lindsay's reign. She therefore suggested the dishes that 'the old gentleman,' as she called her master, preferred. And on the whole Laura felt that the first dinner that she had ordered in Red House would not be a bad one. And this was certainly the case. Mrs Nisbet exerted herself to please her young mistress, and Miss Lindsay ate her dinner with a doubly disappointed heart. But when George came in, and Laura told him about the keys, he was very angry. 'Why, of course, you are mistress,' he said. ¥ Do you say that woman was idiot enough to dispute it ? ' ' She was very disagreeable about it, at all events.' Life in a Country Town. 6$ ' This must be seen to ; however I am glad, my darling, you took your proper place. But I must get my father to speak to Anna Lindsay ; I shall have no more scenes of this sort.' And old Mr Gififord did speak to Anna Lindsay, and added not a little to her rage against the new mistress. ' My dear Anna,' he said gravely, 'George tells me you had some little dispute or other about who should be housekeeper. Of course, George's wife is the mistress in the house, and house- keeper also.' ' Then she has been making mis- chief already,' said Miss Lindsay, her face turning very red, and her eyes filling with sudden tears. 'She naturally told her husband that 64 A Great Temptation. something unpleasant had occurred. But there must be an end to all this. I will not have George's wife annoyed by anything of the kind. It was very unwise of you, Anna ; you should remember that in a few years at most George will be master here and then you might lose your home.' Miss Lindsay listened to these words with a sinking heart. The old lawyer had called her back into the dining- room to say them, and she saw he was entirely in earnest, and that he, as well as George, meant that she should take second place in the house- hold. ' I meant nothing,' she said with a sob, but her emotion had no effect on Mr Gifford. Life in a Country Town. 65 ' Let there be nothing more of the kind/ he added. * And now that is enough, I hope I shall have no occa- sion to speak to you again/ ' Very well, uncle,' answered Miss Lindsay meekly. She saw, in fact, it was no use to say anything further, and she dare not quarrel with her uncle, as her future entirely depended on him. She had no money, and she had always cherished a hope that he would provide for her at his death. So she determined to bide her time. She would be revenged on this inter- loper somehow she had made up her mind from the time she had heard of George's marriage, but at present she could do nothing. She therefore made a sort of apology to Laura, who took it good-naturedly. VOL. II. E 66 A Great Temptation. 1 It is all right,' she said, ' let us say no more about it.' And after this she tried to speak kindly of Anna Lindsay to George. ' You see,' she said, smiling, ' she was sure not to like my coming here when she had been accustomed to order every- thing. You must tell me if I give you very bad dinners, George, and also what you like.' 'You are sure to give me the very things I like without being told,' an- swered George, who, indeed, could see no fault in his young wife, and was never weary of praising her. But Miss Lindsay did not attempt to interfere in the household affairs after this, and made no comments on any failures which Laura sometimes com- mitted. Laura, however, did her best to Life in a Country Town. . 67 please both her husband and his father, and to study their tastes. She even tried to learn whist, though this was most wearisome to her. In fact, it was very dull at Red House, and Laura sometimes regretted the struggling past. The social aspect of Suffold was also not lively. Of course, everyone in the place remembered Laura Ingram, and the old Major, her father. The Major never went into company, but sometimes Laura had done so. Therefore, after her appearance with George at the church as his bride, all those she had known in her girlhood, and all the Giffords' friends and acquaintances called on her. She had known the vicar's family, for the vicar, a well-meaning man, had done his best to be on good terms with his morose, reserved parishioner, Major In- 68 A Great Temptation. gram. But the Major himself had firmly resisted any social intercourse. He never went to church, and he never went into any house but his own. He, however, did not restrain Laura, and she had sometimes gone to parties at the vicar's, and the vicar's wife, a motherly woman, had been sorry for the motherless girl. The vicar's two daughters, one of whom had been recently married to Mr Masterman, the senior curate, were two ordinary-looking, countrified girls. His son was an ordinary-looking, countrified young man. He was in the bank, and on very good terms with himself, which little weakness did not make him more attractive to others. In fact, they were an uninteresting family as a whole, but naturally did not themselves perceive Life in a Country Town. 69 this. They had been very much as- tonished, and the ladies a little jealous, when they had heard of George Gifford's marriage to Laura Ingram. But the Giffords were people of importance in their eyes, for old Mr Gifford gave generously to all church matters. There- fore Mrs Brentwood, the vicar's wife, proposed that they should give a dinner- party in honour of George Gifford's wife. A dinner - party was a serious affair to the Brentwoods. They were not rich, and so many had claims on them for invitations. Still it was advisable, and therefore Mrs Brent- wood and her two daughters had many consultations about whom it would be best to ask to meet the bride. Mrs Masterman was a sensible young woman, who had married a man jo A Great Temptation. many years her senior, and a widower with four children. But Lucy Brent- wood knew very well she could not pick and choose. The senior curate had chosen a lady for his first wife who had five thousand pounds, and he wanted someone to look after his motherless children. Thus it was arranged, and was, in fact, a mutual obligation. Lucy wanted a husband and a home ; Mr Masterman a house- keeper and a head nurse. The mar- riage gave great satisfaction to Mr and Mrs Brentwood, and Lucy seemed quite satisfied with her elderly curate. She had been born and bred at Suffold, and she knew by heart all the jealousies, the small cliques, and the petty ambitions of the place. She advised her mother, in the Life in a Country Town. 71 first place, to ask old Mrs Lynton to meet Mrs George Gifford. Old Mrs Lynton was not wealthy, but she possessed superior advantages as re- gards position to anyone in the town. Her husband had been a captain in the navy, and her only daughter had made what was considered a wonderfully good match. At a county ball in the neighbourhood, genial, jovial Sir Richard Danvers, a baronet, and a very rich man indeed, had seen and admired Lucinda Lynton, who was a handsome girl, and had very shortly afterwards proposed to her. Sir Richard came of a long line of wealthy brewers, who had amassed a vast fortune, and Sir Richard was said to have a hundred thousand a year at the very least, 72 A Great Temptation. It was a great change, therefore, to the fair Lucinda to go to Danvers Park and affluence, after spending many years of her young life in genteel poverty at Suffold. But to do Lady Danvers justice, she bore her honours very amiably. Danvers Park is about twenty miles from Suffold, but Lady Danvers did not forget her old mother or her old friends. She used to stay a few days with her mother at times, and she always on these occasions called on the vicar's family, and had more than once invited them to the magnificent country seat, which was now her home. Therefore Mrs Lynton and her daughter Lady Danvers were in great repute at the vicarage. They spoke of Lady Danvers habitually as Life in a Country Town. 73 'dear Lady Danvers,' and accordingly they decided to invite Mrs Lynton to meet Mrs George Gifford, the bride. They had first secured Laura and George, before they proceeded to invite their other friends, thus showing both prudence and good sense, as a dinner-party was a thing of great consideration in the limited vicarage household. Mr and Mrs George Gifford having duly accepted the invitation, Mrs Lynton was then asked, and imagine their delight when a note arrived from her telling them that her ' Dear daughter, Lady Danvers, 5 would be with her for a few days at the very time of the dinner-party, and asking if she might accompany her to the vicarage. 74 A Great Temptation. The whole family of the Brentwoods were actually uplifted at the idea of entertaining Lady Danvers. But Mrs Brentwood, who was a prudent woman, advised them not to say anything about it in the town until her lady- ship had really dined at the vicarage. 'Something might happen to prevent her coming, you know, my dears/ she said ; ' and you know, also, how spiteful people are ; they might say we had just invented the whole thing.' 'You are quite right, mother,' answered Mrs Masterman. * I never saw such spiteful people as there are here. Did I tell you that I was told that Dorothy White said I never left William alone till I got him?' Life in a Country Tozvn. 75 ' Never mind, my dear,' replied Mrs Brentwood, with a benign maternal smile mantling her face as she looked at her daughter ; ' you did get him, and that, perhaps, made Dorothy a little jealous.' Which speech greatly comforted the senior curate's wife. CHAPTER IV. A DINNER PARTY AND WHAT CAME OF IT. Anna Lindsay was not invited to dine at the vicarage on the 30th day of September, and she felt this to be a great slight. She had dined there be- fore Laura came to Red House, when her uncle and cousin were going, but she was left out now, and this added not a little to her anger and bitterness against the bride. But poor Mrs Brentwood had not the least idea of hurting her feelings, or 76 A Dinner Party, What came of It. yy slighting her in any way. She was obliged to do the best she could for her vicar and her family, and impor- tant parishioners were to be considered before a middle - aged lady of no im- portance. Proper attention had been paid to the GifTord family when a dinner-party had been made expressly for the bride and bridegroom, and Mrs Brentwood could only do what she could with her small means. There was Mr Hay, the manager of the bank where her son was a clerk, and an unmarried man, with a comfort- able house above the bank, all ready for a wife, as it were. Mrs Brentwood had still a daughter to marry, and Jane Brentwood would be a very suitable wife for Mr Hay, her mother reflected. 78 A Great Temptation. Therefore Mr Hay received an invita- tion for the 30th. Then there was the junior curate, a tall, dark, close-shaven young parson, also a suitable husband for Jane, though he declared he was not a marrying man, and that marri- age should not be for the priests of the Church. Mrs Brentwood, however, did not approve of this doctrine, and thought it savoured of Rome. But he might change his mind ; young men had often fads, and there was no say- ing what might happen, thought Mrs Brentwood ; so the closely-shaven junior curate was asked also. The doctor's family, too, were to be considered, to whom she and the vicar owed three dinners, and so on. She ' could only dine sixteen,' as she herself expressed it, in her small dining- A Dinner Party, What came of It. 79 room, so she did what she could, and invited those she thought were of the most use, or might be of use to her husband and children. At last the important day arrived, and Mrs Brentwood's arrangements did credit to herself and her daughters' good management. The hired cook knew her business, and the hired waiters theirs. Mrs Masterman and Jane Brentwood had decorated the table and drawing-room with taste, and the very first guests to arrive were Lady Danvers and Mrs Lynton, her mother. All the family bosoms glowed with triumph. There sat the gracious, hand- some, smiling woman, whom Sir Richard Danvers had made his wife, as one after the other the rest of the party were announced. Lady Danvers knew 80 A Great Temptation. some of them, and did not know others, but they all knew her by name and re- putation. Her husband was the richest man in the county, was a member of Parliament, a baronet, and the master of a pack of foxhounds. And Lady Danvers was a great lady, celebrated for her beauty, her sweetness and gener- osity. To dine with her at the same table was a compliment to themselves some of the guests silently reflected. And when George Gifford and his young wife entered the room, Lady Danvers, who knew George, pleas- antly held out her hand to him. ' How are you, Mr Gifford ? ' she said, 'and how is that dear old man, your father ? I remember him so well.' A Dinner Party, What came of It. 81 George, well pleased, replied suit- ably to her inquiries. 6 And this is your wife ? ' continued Lady Danvers, looking admiringly at the graceful white clad figure by George's side. ' Please introduce me to her.' George did so smilingly. ' I am so glad to know you,' said Lady Danvers, rising and taking Lauras hand. ' I hear you are an author? I love authors, my greatest ambition is to be one/ 6 You could be, I am sure, if you pleased, Lady Danvers,' answered Laura. ' 1 don't know ; I have all the wish, perhaps the feelings, to be one, but I may lack the power of describing these feelings so that they may touch other VOL. II. F 82 A Great Temptation. people's hearts. It is a great gift, and must give you thousands of unknown friends.' 1 1 have not found that to be so/ answered Laura, with rather a sad little smile. ' My only book was sup- posed to be going to turn out a com- plete failure, but it is doing better now.' 1 Don't quite believe about the fail- ure, Lady Danvers,' said George with some pride in his tone. ' Her first book is doing so well that the pub- lisher has asked her to write another, and has offered her quite a big sum for it.' 4 Oh! George, I do not know what you call a big sum!' said Laura, modestly. 'Well, a considerable sum at any- rate, my dear,' replied George. A Dinner Party, What came of It. 83 1 1 must read the first one ; I am dying to read it,' said Lady Dan vers, ' and when I have met you I will read it with double interest. But, ah, here comes the vicar ; we must have a long chat after dinner, Mrs Gifford.' The portly form of the vicar had by this time approached the little group, and, murmuring something about the honour of escorting Lady Danvers in to dinner, he offered her his arm, which Lady Danvers took smilingly. It had been originally fixed that the host had to take in the bride ; but, of course, this was not to be thought of in the presence of Lady Danvers. Therefore George was requested to escort Mrs Brentwood, and Mr Master- man, the senior curate, took Laura. She found him a man slow and heavy 84 A Great Temptation. of discourse, and bent on enjoying the good and unusual luxuries spread be- fore him. He solemnly partook of every dish offered to him, and each time the wine was carried round he permitted the waiters to fill his glass, until his Lucy looked at him anxiously, and so did his father-in-law, but from different motives. Lucy feared he was taking too much for his health's sake ; the vicar, for his wine's sake. Laura found it anything but lively. She looked at George, who also seemed to be enjoying his dinner, but in mode- ration. She looked at Lady Danvers, and thought she had never seen so charming a face. It was not only hand- some, but so bright and full of anima- tion. The vicar, even in spite of his A Dinner Party, What came of It. 85 private anxieties, could not help com- plimenting her. ' And how handsome your bride is,' said Lady Danvers ; ' I have quite fallen in love with her.' c She is a fine young woman,' answered the vicar, with his eyes fixed uneasily on the waiters. ' It is such a clever face ; she has, I am sure, a vivid imagination, and a warm and tender heart/ This was a little beyond the vicar ; besides, at this moment one of the waiters was recklessly opening an un- needed Ñ in the vicar's opinion Ñ bottle of champagne. Laura was, in truth, looking very beautiful. She wore a soft, white silk dress, made in Paris, and the slender gold chain, with the seven diamond 86 A Great Temptation. stars, that George had given her as a bridal gift. While in Paris he had purchased her diamond earrings and a beautiful diamond star for her dark hair. She carried a large white bouquet, and a white feather fan, and, altogether, her appearance was very striking. But she was very glad when the dinner was over and when the ladies returned to the drawing-room. When there, Lady Danvers at once took pos- session of her. She sat down by her side, and asked her all about publish- ing and publishers. ' How I envy you ! ' she cried. * To live at will in an ideal world ! ' 1 But unfortunately the real world will also step in,' answered Laura, with a smile. 1 I should shut my door on it if I A Dinner Party, What came of It. 87 were you. I should live with my own people, the children of my brain, the ideal men and women I created at my will/ ' I used * to think like that, Lady Danvers, in my young girlhood, but,' and Laura sighed, ' it did not content me.' 1 No ; you married ? ' 6 Yes,' answered Laura, with a certain reserve in her tone that Lady Danvers' quick ears instantly caught. 1 Well, do not think me rude,' said Lady Danvers, looking at her, 'but I think Mr GirTord has been a most for- tunate man to marry so gifted a wife. We must really be friends, Mrs GirTord. I will, if you will permit me, call on you to-morrow, and then you must come out and visit me at the Park. What 88 A Great Temptation. delicious conversations we shall have. I delight in talking to you, and after the good vicar Ñ ' And Lady Danvers shrugged her handsome shoulders. Laura laughed. 4 1 shall be delighted if you will come and see me, Lady Danvers, and I assure you the vicar is amusing to the senior curate/ ' Oh, that is the long lean man in black, who devoured everything before him ? I watched him because I was looking at you. You attracted me.' 'Then the attraction was mutual. I could not help looking at you.' ' How delightful to have found a friend at first sight. I believe in occult and mysterious links, you know, between A Dinner Party \ What came of It. 89 two souls. In what other world have we known each other?' 'It is strange how we are drawn to some, while with others, though they are good, and everything that is kind, a stone wall lies between us/ 1 It is so/ said Lady Dan vers, and in a moment she seemed to understand. This handsome girl had married, but a mental wall lay between her and the man to whom she was mated. And she did not wonder at this when a few minutes later George Gifford came into the drawing-room and went up to the couch on which Lady Danvers and his wife were sitting. George was sen- sible, a little commonplace, and by no means imaginative. He was pleased to see Lady Danvers talking to his wife, and he joined in the conversation, which 90 A Great Temptation. suddenly became commonplace, too. But Lady Danvers was a woman of the world, and she knew it too well to expect always to be amused or enter- tained. She talked to George for the sake of his wife, and then the closely- shaven curate with Roman Catholic ten- dencies joined the group where the only two pretty women in the room were sit- ting, and proved himself a good conver- sationalist and a young man of some culture and taste. Altogether Lady Danvers could say with some truth, which she did, that she had enjoyed herself, as she was taking leave of her hostess. 1 So pleased to have seen you, more than pleased, Lady Danvers,' smiled the delighted and gratified Mrs Brentwood. The vicar took her to the carriage, A Dinner Party, What came of It. 91 and the closely- shaven curate followed with white - haired, venerable Mrs Lyn- ton, as to be near the rose was some- thing. Then George and Laura took their departure, and Laura also told Mrs Brentwood that she had enjoyed herself. The family felt the party had been a success, and that all the money spent had not been in vain. Only the vicar out of whose pocket it came felt rather depressed. There were the waiters to pay, and a great deal of wine had been consumed. ' I never saw a man drink so much as Masterman did/ he grumbled to his wife afterwards in the privacy of their own apartment. But kindly Mrs Brentwood soothed him. ' Never mind, John,' she said, 'it's 92 A Great Temptation. only once in a way, and it all went off very well, and it was such a thing to have Lady Danvers here.' ' Uncommonly handsome woman/ re- marked the vicar, mollified, putting on his night - cap, and remembering how Lady Danvers had said Sir Richard would be pleased to see him at the Park. 'Yes, I suppose it did go off very well, and George Gifford's wife is a pretty woman, too.' ' Yes, but then her dress would have made anyone look well/ ' Don't know about that,' and then presently his mind once more reverted to his son-in law's delinquencies. ' I tell you what it is, Sarah,' he said, just as Mrs Brentwood was fall- ing asleep, ' when Masterman dines here on the Sundays, in future, I shall A Dinner Party, What came of It. 93 never produce anything but a shilling a bottle claret.' But let us leave this worthy couple to their well-earned repose, and see what the effect of the dinner-party was at Red House. George had gone home with Laura in a state bordering on elation. He was so proud of his wife ; so proud of her beauty, and the attention that she had received from Lady Danvers, that he could not keep it to himself. 1 1 say, little woman/ he said, putting his arm round her slender waist as soon as they were seated together in the carriage, 'you did look a great swell to-night.' ' 1 am glad you thought I looked well, George,' answered Laura gently. ' I should think you did look well ! You and Lady Danvers are the two 94 A Great Temptation. prettiest women I have seen for many a long day ; and she seemed to take quite a fancy to you, too.' 1 She seemed very nice ; she said she would call ; I wonder if she will ? ' ' She is sure to call if she said she would ; well, my little girl, I consider you quite a success.' And George's elation had by no means worn off by the morning. He went down to breakfast with a smile on his face, and had scarcely seated himself at the table when he began to talk to his father and Anna Lindsay about the party. ' Oh, it was quite a grand affair, I assure you,' he said, in answer to his father's inquiry how he enjoyed him- self. ' Lady Danvers was there, look- ing splendid, and asked so kindly after A Dinner Party, What came of It. 95 you, father, and said she remembered you so well.' ' She was a beautiful girl,' answered the gratified old man. ' And she's a beautiful woman now, and she took quite a fancy to my little Laura, and said she was going to call, and invited us to the Park, and no end of things. She admired Laura immensely, and no wonder, for Laura looked positively lovely last night.' At this moment Laura entered the room. 8 Come and sit here, Laura,' said George, rising, and offering her a chair. 1 I've been telling father how you quite made a conquest of Lady Danvers last night.' ' She was very kind to me, at least,' answered Laura, smiling. 96 A Great Temptation. 'And she said she was coming here to call on you, dear, didn't she ? ' ' Yes, George, she said she was.' ' Quite an honour,' sneered Anna Lindsay. ' Well, so it is, Anna,' said George sturdily. ' A woman in Lady Dan- vers' position does not go calling about on everyone.' 'Oh, no, I daresay not,' replied Anna. 'When did she say she was coming to call, then ? ' And she looked at Laura, as she wished to be at home during Lady Danvers' visit. ' She said soon,' answered Laura, who preferred to receive Lady Dan- vers alone.' ' Oh, that may mean nothing. I heard she was staying at old Mrs Lynton's. I believe she's a very handsome woman. A Dinner Party, What came of It. 97 I suppose she would be quite the belle last night?' said Anna Lindsay. ' Except Laura/ answered George, looking smilingly at his wife. ' They were the rival belles Ñ no, the friendly belles/ he added, with a little laugh. Anna Lindsay said nothing more, but she left the breakfast - room with a heart brimful with envy and discon- tent. And, when early in the after- noon she returned from a shopping expedition, determined to be in the house if Lady Danvers should happen to call that day, she heard, to her bitter chagrin, that she had already been there, and was gone. 'She was obliged to call early,' ex- plained Laura, 'as she returns to the Park this afternoon.' 1 So I have missed her, then,' said VOL. II. G 98 A Great Temptation. Miss Lindsay. ' She knew the hour Lady Danvers was coming, and would not tell me,' she thought. 'Ah, well, my fine lady,' she mentally added, vin- dictively; 'it's your day now, mine may come/ CHAPTER V. LADY DANVERS AT HOME. Lady Danvers had made herself very charming to Laura during her early visit to Red Mouse. She had heard from Sir Richard in the morning, and he wanted her home again, and had written to tell her that he would send a carriage for her early in the afternoon, therefore Lady Danvers had thus been compelled to call on Laura in the morning. * But I was determined not to go away without seeing you,' she said. * I want you to promise to come to us at the 99 ioo A Great Temptation. Park Ñ you and Mr Gifford Ñ for a week's visit at least.' 'It is very good of you to ask us ; I shall be delighted to go, if Mr Gifford can spare the time,' answered Laura. 1 Oh, he must ! He must spare the time to bring you at least, and leave you with me, and return for you.' 6 It is most kind of you, and it will be a great pleasure to be with you.' 1 And so you used to live in this place in your girlhood, I am told ? ' said Lady Danvers, looking at her with interest. ' So did I, but I was married and gone before you had left school.' 8 I remember seeing Mrs Lynton, and hearing that she had a daughter married to Sir Richard Danvers,' answered Laura, ' but I never expected to see you.' Lady Danvers at Home, 101 ' It was fate ! ' cried Lady Danvers, with a pretty little gesture of her small hands. 'We were fated to meet, and to be friends. I knew it almost from the first moment that I looked in your face.' ' I hope it may be so, with all my heart.' ' It will be so. Between ourselves, you must find Suffold very dull ? ' ' I used to think it very dull before my poor father's death ; very dull, indeed ! Then I went to London, ex- pecting to fight my own way up, but I found that a terrible struggle.' ' And then you married Mr Gif- ford ? ' \ Yes, he was very good to me always, and he did a great deal for me, and soÑ' 102 A Great Temptation. ' You married him Ñ so wags the world ! ' ' He is most good, most kind to me/ said Laura, with an earnest ring in her voice. ' I am sure he is Ñ he is fond and proud of you. I could see it in his grey eyes.' 1 You are a quick observer, I see, Lady Danvers.' * I think I am. We don't need to be told everything, you know.' ' That is quite true ; I wonder how it is ? ' c I judge people by their eyes. I watch their eyes, and seem to know almost what they are thinking. It's not quite a pleasant gift though. You may see too much.' ' And could you tell,' and a sudden Lady Danvers at Home. 103 flush passed over Laura's face, ' if a person really cared for you ? ' c Do you mean a man or woman ? ' ' I mean a man Ñ if a man loved you ? ' ' I think so. One great guide is if a man watches you while he is talking to other women.' 'Things are so strange,' said Laura wistfully. ' They are, because there are under- currents that we cannot see. As we sail on the sea of life, the hidden rocks are the dangerous ones.' * You mean false friends ? ' ' And evil tongues Ñ no one can tell what harm they do.' Laura sighed, restlessly, and then Lady Danvers changed the conversa- tion. 1 04 A Great Temptation. 1 Is Mr Gifford a sportsman ? ' she asked. * I believe he shoots a little,' answered Laura. ' Because we are to have a party of men coming to the party on the 12th to shoot. Suppose you fix to come then also? I wonder if that time will suit Mr Gifford ?' ' I can ask him.' ' Please do Ñ but now I must go. I will write to you from the Park to know if you can come on the 12th. I am looking forward to your visit.' They parted on the friendliest terms, and Laura's heart felt lighter after making Lady Danvers' acquaintance. She was so bright and congenial, though life for these two women had worn such different aspects. One had Lady Danvers at Home. 105 lived in the sunshine, the other in the shade, and yet they understood each other, and a strong mutual sympathy existed between them. George also was very pleased when he heard of Lady Danvers' visit and invitation, and yet more pleased when in a day or two a charming letter arrived, from Danvers Park, pressing Laura to fix the day that she would go there. ' My husband is very anxious to make your acquaintance,' wrote Lady Danvers, * as he says I have talked of no one else since I met you.' In fact Lady Danvers knew how to write pretty things, as well as to say them, and did so with such charming grace and ease, that no wonder she was a general favourite. 106 A Great Temptation. 1 She is certainly a most attractive woman,' said George, after he had finished reading her letter. ' May I show this to my father, Laura; I know it will please him so much ? ' For Lady Danvers had not for- gotten to be remembered very kindly to 'Mr Gifford, senior,' as well as to 'your nice husband.' And both Mr Gifford, senior, and the ' nice husband ' were flattered by this little attention. Lady Danvers, in truth, would take any trouble to please people, and old people especially like thought and kindli- ness from the young. Mr Gifford showed Lady Danvers' letter also to Anna Lindsay, and the terms it was written in filled her breast with bitter envy. But she dare Lady Danvers at Home, 107 not say anything against it to her uncle, as she saw his unmistakable pleasure that his son's wife should have received such a compliment. ' 1 suppose they will go ? ' she said, after a minute's silence. ' Of course they will go,' answered old Mr Gifford, ' and, no doubt, both Laura and George will enjoy them- selves, as they like Lady Danvers so much/ The invitation to Danvers Park was accordingly accepted, and, one bright fine day in October, the husband and wife started on a visit from which they expected much pleasure. George, a true business man, was glad to have the opportunity of making the personal acquaintance of Sir Richard Danvers, who with his great fortune was sure 108 A Great Temptation. often to require legal advice. He was glad, too, to have some pheasant shoot- ing, as he was a fair shot, and rather proud of his skill. Laura was delighted at the idea of again seeing Lady Danvers, and they were therefore both in very good spirits during the short railway journey. It had been arranged that a carriage should be sent for them to the station nearest the Park, and, when they reached this station, a well - appointed brougham was awaiting their arrival, and after a drive of about two miles, they neared the magnificent mansion which the present baronet's father had built. The late Sir Richard Danvers had wisely raised his house on ground which had belonged to a noble family, who had grown poor, as he had grown rich. Lady Danvers at Home, . 109 But though he had pulled down the old mansion, he did not cut down the old trees. He reared his turrets and towers amid the great oaks whose leaves had quivered in the summer sunshine more than a hundred years. A splendid place, in truth, this Danvers Park, standing on its smooth lawns, facing the wide lake, with a great belt of trees at the back, and the vast grass- lands of the park, spreading on every side. A great change, indeed, it must have been to the handsome Lucinda Lynton, to leave a small house in Suffold to dwell in this stately mansion. 1 It was like a fairy tale,' she sometimes said ; and some good fairy, by one tap of her wand, had brought no A Great Temptation. her great wealth, position, and a good husband. Beauty she had had before the eventful evening when she met Sir Richard Danvers, and he laid his vast possessions at her feet. But, at all events, she made a good use of them. A gracious, charming woman, the lady of Danvers Park was almost universally con- sidered, and her house parties were famous for their brightness and life. ¥ ' It's well to be rich,' said George, half-enviously, as they drove down the long avenue which led to one of the principal entrances of the house. ' How beautiful it is,' answered Laura, looking around. It was not envy, but there was a sort of Lady Danvers at Home. . 1 1 1 wistful feeling in her heart also, that it was well to dwell amid such fair surroundings. * I should like to sit and think or write all day under the shadow of these great trees/ she was think- ing. But she did not say this to George. George was reflecting what a great income a man must have to build and live in such a place. He was taking a sensible, practical view of Danvers Park and its owners, and Laura a sentimental one. There was an essential differ- ence in their two characters, yet we have seen how George could act sentimentally, and Laura, practically. But their thoughts were speedily interrupted, for a few minutes later the carriage stopped before one of U2 A Great Temptation. the principal entrances of the Park, and they were informed that Lady Danvers expected them, and they were at once ushered into a charming room, in which they found Lady Danvers and her little son. Even as regarded her child her good fortune had not forsaken her. Dick, commonly called Dicky Danvers, was a handsome, sturdy boy of five, with his father's merry, blue eyes, and his mother's well-formed features. He was sitting at Lady Danvers' feet as George and Laura entered, and as she rose with outstretched hand to receive them, Dicky also rose, and made his best bow to his mother's guests. ' So pleased to see you,' said Lady Danvers kindly. ' Sir Richard Lady Danvers at Home. 113 and the gentlemen are out shoot- ing, but will be in presently. Sit here, Mrs Gifford, and allow me to introduce you to my little boy.' ' How are you, sir ? ' said Laura, smiling, and holding out her hand to the heir. ' Quite well, and how are 'ou ? ' replied Master Dicky. * Are 'ou the pretty lady mother said was com- ing?' ' I'm afraid I can't be,' answered Laura, with a laugh. Dicky fixed his merry blue eyes on her face, as if he was seriously considering the question. 'Yes she is, Dicky,' said Lady Danvers, smiling. 'You must know he is a great admirer of beauty, Mr Gifford,' she went on gaily. VOL. II. H ii4 A Great Temptation. ' He is accustomed to it, you see/ answered George. 6 After which pretty speech you shall have some tea, or some wine ? Ah, here is one of the sports- men.' The door of the room opened as she spoke, and a tall, dark man in a grey suit entered. 1 You promised me some tea if I came in early, Lady Danvers ? ' said a voice so strangely familiar to Laura's ears that she slightly started. ' Yes, indeed, and I wish I could persuade Sir Richard to follow your good example,' replied Lady Danvers. 1 Mrs Gifford, allow me to introduce Sir Ralph Woodland ; Mrs Gifford, Sir Ralph Woodland.' Sir Ralph turned his head and Lady Danvers at Home. 1 1 5 bowed on being thus addressed, and for the first time his eyes fell on Laura's face. He recognised her in a moment. His expression changed, a flush passed over his dark skin, and he made a step forward as if to shake hands with her, but Laura, who had grown suddenly pale, merely bowed, and her eyes fell. ' Mrs Gifford is an author, Sir Ralph, and she has come to pay me a visit ; is it not charming?' continued Lady Danvers, quite unconscious that the two had ever met before. ' We must take her through some of the lovely glades in the park ; and you must paint them in words,' she added, look- ing at Laura. Laura tried to speak, but somehow her voice failed her. 1 1 6 A Great Temptation. ' We admired the park greatly as we drove through it, Lady Danvers,' said George. 'Oh! the carriage drive is nothing,' replied Lady Danvers, ' but there is one avenue truly magnificent. They say the oaks in it are four hundred years old. Fancy, how delightful to live four hundred years ! ' ' It might be if you lived at Danvers Park,' said Sir Ralph Woodland, but not in his usual clear, firm tones. ? Well, I don't know, would we, even if we could,' answered Lady Danvers, and a thoughtful expression passed over her fine face. 'We will live, you know Ñ I believe this, don't you, Mrs Gifford ? Ñ in another life ? ' * I trust so,' replied Laura, in a low, faltering voice, and as she spoke Sir Lady Danvers at Home. 117 Ralph again looked at her face, and so did George Gifford. ' Are you tired, Laura ? ' asked George kindly. 1 I am a little, I think, George,' said Laura, who in truth felt a strange faintness creeping over her. ' Oh ! how stupid of me ! ' cried Lady Danvers, starting to her feet, 'keeping you talking instead of giving you some tea or some wine. Why, you look quite pale, Mrs Gifford?' ' It is nothing,' said Laura, still in that strange faltering voice. ' I will have some tea, please.' George handed her some tea which was standing ready on a table near, but Laura's hand shook so she could not hold the cup. ' You are actually trembling ; Sir n8 A Great Temptation. Ralph, please hand that small table here,' said Lady Dan vers very kindly. 'There, put your cup on that, but take my advice and have some wine after your journey?' ' I will get you some,' said Sir Ralph, who all the while had been standing looking at Laura's pale face. On another table stood wine and liqueurs, as Sir Richard never took tea when he came in from shooting. Sir Ralph poured out a glass of wine and carried it to Laura, putting it down on the table which he had placed near her. 'Take it, my dear,' said George Gifford, a little anxiously, raising the glass and holding it to Laura's lips. She looked at him and smiled faintly, and then sipped a little of the wine. Lady Danvers at Home. 119 - 1 am all right, George,' she said ; 'only a little tired.' 1 Well, as soon as you have taken the wine, I suggest you go and lie down a little while before dinner,' pro- posed Lady Danvers. 'It is only six now/ she added, glancing at the watch on her wrist, ' and we do not dine until eight, so you have lots of time to get a nice rest.' * That is a very good plan, Lady Danvers,' said George. ' Drink the wine, my dear, and then if you will excuse us, Lady Danvers ? ' ' Of course, Mr Gifford. Ring the bell, dear Dicky, and I will order Mrs Lawson, my housekeeper, to look after you, and show you your rooms.' She did this, and George offered his arm to Laura, who took it, and then 120 A Great Temptation. with faltering footsteps left the room. ' Who is the lady ? ' asked Sir Ralph Woodland, after she was gone. 1 Oh ! such a charming young woman and a bride,' replied Lady Dan vers. ' She is called Mrs Gifford, and that is her husband. Her father was an army man, and they used to live in the little country town where my mother lives. That is how I know her ; then Major Ingram died, and his daughter, who is a very clever girl, went up to town to try to make her fortune by writing books. But it ended in her marrying Mr Gifford, who had been her father's lawyer.' ' She Ñ is handsome,' said Sir Ralph, slowly. ' Very handsome, I think ; it is such Lady Danvers at Home. 121 an intellectual face ; I admire her greatly, and I fancy Ñ I don't know, but still I fancy Ñ that she did not marry Mr Gifford for love, and that always seems rather sad to me.' 'It is always sad. But why do you think this ? ' ' Because she is so different to him. You see, he is a well-to-do lawyer, and she, poor girl, I suppose, had nothing or next to nothing. And it takes years, I am told, before you can make a really decent income by literature. So what could she do but marry for money ? ' Sir Ralph was silent; he was remem- bering a certain interview in which Laura Ingram had refused a very much better offer of marriage than that of a rich lawyer. 122 A Great Temptation. 'And,' he said, hesitatingly, a few moments later, 'm the town where your mother lives Ñ was she considered Ñ to be a nice girl.' 'Very nice, but a little bit proud and cold, my mother said, to most people. It is said also, I believe, that Mr Gifford offered to her before she left Suffold. But she was away more than a year when she returned as his wife.' Sir Ralph asked no more questions. He went out to walk in the park in the gathering gloom, with bent head and knitted brows. He under- stood now he had been deceived re- garding Laura's character ; that the whole story of her leaving Maddox Street with a gentleman was probably a false one. Lady Danvers at Home. 123 ' It was that little devil Patty May told me this,' he thought bitterly, ' Fool ! fool that I was to believe a false tongue like hers ! ' CHAPTER VI. OLD MEMORIES. Laura still looked very pale when she appeared in the drawing-room before dinner, but handsome and composed. She was dressed in white, and wore the diamonds that George had given her, and Sir Ralph Woodland's eyes followed her as she moved across the room. Lady Danvers went forward to meet her, and asked her if she were rested now and then turned round and beckoned 124 Old Memories. 125 to Sir Richard to approach them, who was standing talking to a small group of men by the fireplace. 6 Let me introduce you to my husband,' she said, as the jovial, somewhat red-faced baronet approached them. * Richard, this is Mrs Gifford, of whom you have heard me speak.' 'Very pleased to see Mrs Gifford,' he said, holding out his kindly hand. He was a man who admired handsome women, and, indeed, all the good things of this world. He enjoyed his life, and having his friends around him to share his pleasures. He was fond, too, and proud of his wife, and was a good husband, a good landlord, and a warm-hearted, generous-minded man. ¥ My little Lu,' he went on, smil- 126 A Great Temptation. ingly looking at his wife, and then a Laura, 'talked of no one else but you, I assure you, after she came back from Suffold. I was afraid you would be too clever for me, as Lucinda has all the brains of the family.' ' He wishes me to contradict him, Mrs Gilford,' said Lady Danvers, smiling also, 'but I won't, to punish him.' ' Well, 'pon, my honour, I can't understand how anyone writes a book all out of their own head! It amazes me ; and I own I feel a sort of awe of anyone who can.' 1 I hope you will not feel any awe of me, Sir Richard,' said Laura pleas- antly. ' You don't look a bit as if you Old Memories. 127 could write one,' answered Sir Richard in genuine good faith ; ' you look too charming.' Both Lady Danvers and Laura laughed at this, and then Lady Danvers looked back, and, meeting Sir Ralph Woodland's grave eyes, she slightly waved with her fan for him to approach them. ' Do you hear this heresy ? ' she said. ' Sir Richard declares that Mrs Gifford looks too charming to write books.' A sudden flush passed over both Laura's face and Sir Ralph's as they listened to these words, and for a moment their eyes met. ' Now, don't you agree with me, Woodland?' went on Sir Richard, with his jolly laugh. * A handsome woman 128 A Great Temptation. shouldn't spoil her eyes and her com- plexion with poring over pen and ink all day ? No, no, Mrs Gifford, leave that kind of work to your plainer sisters, it's something for them to do, poor things ! ' And again he gave a hearty laugh. ' Well, I admire clever women,' said Sir Ralph. 'And not handsome ones, eh, Wood- land ? ' answered the baronet. ' Ah, my dear boy, you may tell us that, but you won't get us to believe it.' 'That is hard,' replied Sir Ralph, with a sarcastic little bow. ' Why not a clever, handsome woman ? ' said Lady Danvers, gaily. ' Surely two good qualities are better than one.' ' You are perfectly right, Lady Danvers ; a clever, handsome woman Old Memories. 129 shall be my future type of perfec- tion.' 'Are you sarcastic, Sir Ralph?' in- quired Lady Danvers, archly. 6 I don't know,' he answered. But just at this moment dinner was announced, and Sir Richard offered his arm to Laura, and the little group parted. At dinner Laura sat at one end of the table and Sir Ralph Woodland at the other. Once Laura ventured to look at him, and found his eyes were fixed on her face. She dropped her own eyes hastily, and was con- scious that she blushed deeply. After this she devoted herself to Sir Richard, and luckily found a topic, which had unending interest to his ears. This was his little son, and vol. 11. 1 130 A Great Temptation, Sir Richard's whole countenance beamed at the very mention of Dicky's name. ' He's the finest little chappie,' he said, with immense pride ; ' the pluckiest little dare-devil I ever came across. You should see him ride his pony ; you must see him ; I declare it's a treat.' ' And he's such a handsome child, too,' said Laura, judiciously. ' Yes, there's nothing to find fault with in his looks ; he's his mother's image. Did you notice his nose was the very same pattern as hers ? ' 1 But he has blue eyes like yours.' ' So I try to flatter myself, and his mother tries to flatter me, only mine are a bit the worse for wear. But it's not the looks of the boy I prize Old Memories. 1 3 1 most, it's his spirit, his pluck. He's a splendid little beggar!' And in this artless fashion Sir Richard continued to talk of Dicky nearly the whole dinner time. He never thought he was wearying Laura, because to him the theme was unweary- ing. He was not a clever man, but Lady Danvers, with unerring tact, never let him preceive this. She owed him so much, that she did everything to make his life happy and content. There were no ladies present but Laura and the hostess, so these two had, what Lady Danvers called ' a delightful chat ' in the drawing-room before the men joined them. Some- how Laura found herself telling Lady Danvers of her struggles and disap- pointments, for this charming woman 132 A Great Temptation. had such a sympathetic heart that people half unconsciously confided in her. ' But all this is over now, and you have a good husband to look after you, and take care of you,' said Lady Danvers. 'Yes,' answered Laura, and then she sighed ever so softly, but Lady Danvers heard it. 4 Do you think Sir Ralph Woodland good-looking ? ' she asked the next minute. ' He Ñ seemed so,' said Laura, with a faltering tongue. ' I admire him,' went on Lady Davers ; ' it's such a strong face. I should imagine him getting an immense power over anyone if he choose to exert his will. I wonder if he has ever been Old Memories. 133 in love. But I suppose not, as I do not think any woman would refuse him.' Laura's lips quivered. ' There might be circumstances that Ñ might compel it/ she said. 1 Compel anyone to refuse him ! Well, if he had the misfortune to fall in love with a married woman of course, other- wise I don't believe any girl would say him nay. You see, he's rich for one thing, in a good position, and, I think, decidedly good-looking.' ' Yes/ said Laura absently. She was thinking of him standing before her in the little back room of a London street, pleading his love. She was thinking of him sitting by her side in the picture gallery, and how her heart seemed to understand his, and then she 134 A Great Temptation. remembered his sudden estrangement, his long absence, and his cold acknowledg- ment of her presence, when at last they did meet after his return. But her thoughts were interrupted by his entrance into the room. He walked forward Ñ a man of tall commanding bear- ing Ñ and came up to where she and Lady Danvers were seated, and ad- dressed Lady Danvers, making some in- quiry after a mutual friend. Lady Danvers answered him, and then, when her husband and the other gentlemen entered the room, she went towards them, and for the first time Laura and Sir Ralph were virtually alone. He drew a chair and sat down in front of her, fixing his dark eyes on her changing face. Old Memories, 135 6 This is a strange meeting,' he said in a low, concentrated tone. * Yes,' answered Laura, almost below her breath. ' I understood from your manner this afternoon that you did not choose to acknowledge our previous acquaintance? Is this so?' asked Sir Ralph. ' I see no good in doing so,' replied Laura, with faltering lips. ' I bow to your decision ; though I regret it.' c It is all past and gone ; best to for- get it.' 1 That I shall never do.' ' And yet Ñ ' began Laura, looking up in his face, and then she paused. But with that swift current of thought which there was naturally between them, 136 A Great Temptation. Sir Ralph instantly understood to what she alluded. 1 You mean our last meeting ? When I passed you in the Park?' 'Yes/ and a burning blush flooded Laura's face. She was recalling the brief joy and the bitter disappointment of that moment, recalling how she had turned away, feeling as though all brightness for her in life was ended. 6 I acted under a misapprehension. A shameful lie had been told me,' said Sir Ralph in a low tone. ' A lie ? ' repeated Laura, looking in his face. ' Yes ! I will explain ; but not here Ñ ' 'Woodland,' called Sir Richard's voice at this moment, 'we are going to play baccarat, come and join.' Old Memories. 137 Sir Ralph looked at Laura and hesitated. ' Perhaps I had better go,' he said. ' Yes, do go,' she answered. Sir Richard and the other men were in the small inner drawing-room, and were standing round the table where they were going to play, and Lady Danvers was among them. But when Sir Ralph Woodland rose, she came into the large drawing-room where Laura was sitting, and approached her. 'You come, too, Mrs Gifford,' she said; 'it is amusing to watch them.' So Lady Danvers, Laura and Sir Ralph went up to the baccarat table ; but when Sir Ralph saw they could make up the required number without him, he declined to join the game. ' 1 don't feel quite up to it to-night,' 138 A Great Temptation. he said. ' Suppose, Lady Danvers, that we take Mrs Gifford for a quiet half hour among the pictures ? I know she is a great lover of art.' For a moment Lady Danvers looked slightly surprised, she, of course, think- ing Laura and Sir R^lph such recent acquaintances that he was very unlikely to know her tastes. But the next she good-naturedly assented. 'We think a great deal of our pic- tures,' she said, smiling. ' I think nearly all the great masters are represented at Danvers. Do you paint, Mrs Gif- ford?' 'I do a little/ answered Laura, but Sir Ralph, who by this time remembered that their former acquaintance was not to be spoken of, did not speak. So they took Laura from room to Old Memories. 139 room of the great mansion, whose walls were enriched by the works of death- less names. Here was a Rembrandt, there a Gerard Dow, a Vandyke, a Rubens. Vast sums of money had been spent on the pictures at Danvers Park, and they had been bequeathed from sire to son, until a splendid col- lection had been formed. The present Sir Richard cared nothing about them, except the pride of possession. Lady Danvers was also proud of them, and they were hung in nearly all the recep- tion rooms, and on the staircase, and along the corridors. Going along one of the softly lighted corridors, Laura stopped to look at a portrait of Nell Gwyn by Sir Peter Lely ; the face of the fair and frail one being peculiarly attractive. 140 A Great Temptation. ' Her character is written on her face/ said Sir Ralph, somewhat con- temptuously. * Are all our characters, Sir Ralph ? ' asked Laura. ' Yes, though there are some fair masks of vice,' he answered. ' We all, I believe, wear masks occasionally, 5 said Lady Danvers. But at this moment a child's plain- tive cry fell on her ears, and Lady Danvers stopped to listen. 'That is Dicky crying!' she exclaimed; ' his rooms are along this corridor ; excuse me for a few minutes, Mrs Gifford?' The next moment she had left them, and went hurrying along the corridor towards her little boy's room, and a short embarrassed silence fell on the Old Memories. 1 4 1 two she left behind, which was broken by Sir Ralph Woodland. 'Did you ever finish that picture of the Newfoundland that you began in the National Gallery?' he asked abruptly. ' Yes, I finished it ; I have it at home now,' she answered. 1 1 tried to sell it, but I could not Ñ seeing all these pictures reminds one Ñ ' ? Of those days ? Yes, with the bloom off the rose,' said Sir Ralph moodily. Laura did not answer. There was a strange subtle pleasure in her heart as she stood there with this dark- browed man by her side, beneath the picture of the dead beauty. The weariness that had fallen on her spirit during the long months that she had 142 A Great Temptation. been parted from him seemed suddenly to have passed away. Life was once more worth living for, and not merely the dull monotony of duty that she had lately passed through. Her oval cheeks flushed and her dark eyes shone, and Sir Ralph, watching her, thought her handsomer than ever. 'And your book/ he said, ' what did it do?' ' At first nothing,' answered Laura, with a sort of vague smile flitting over her finely-formed lips ; ' it was published on the half-profit system, and there were no profits the publishers said, and I had given almost my last penny to assist at the expenses of the publica- tion. It quite broke me down, I Ñ I lost all hope Ñ ' 'And then?' asked Sir Ralph, still Old Memories. 143 with his eyes fixed on her expressive face. 1 Then Ñ things changed/ said Laura, with a sudden blush. She was remembering how, on the morning of her marriage, things had changed. Thinking if that change had come before she might not now have been George GirTord's wife. ' And Valentine Ross, did you ever see anything more of him ? ' inquired Sir Ralph. ' That reminds me, Sir Ralph, of something I have always wished to tell you. I went to see Mr Ross, and when I thanked him for paying me so promptly he laughed, and advised me always to be paid through you. In fact, he gave me to understand that you had 144 -A Great Temptation. paid me for the story, not himself? Is this so ? ' ' The idiot ! ' said Sir Ralph grimly. ' What made him talk such folly?' 'Then this was not so? I should like to know ? ' ' I thought Ross was not quite such a fool/ replied Sir Ralph, impatiently, 'as to talk such bosh. Are you writing any more stories now ?' Laura shook her head. ' Nor painting ? ' ' No ; I do nothing now. It is all so different. I seem to have lost in- terest Ñ in these things/ But Sir Ralph understood she had lost interest in most things ; that some- how the spring of her life was broken, Old Memories. 145 and that all her bright hopes had passed away. ' I have an explanation to make to you,' he said, with suppressed agitation ; 'a long explanation. Shall I make it now ? ' But before Laura could answer they both perceived Lady Dan vers approach ing them down the corridor. ' Another time then ? ' said Sir Ralph. Laura bowed her head, and a moment later Lady Danvers had joined them. ' I have kissed away my little darling's tears/ she said, smiling. c I hope I did not seem to keep you long ? ' ' Oh, no/ answered Laura hastily, and with a blush. 'We have been talking of pictures Ñ VOL. II. K 146 A Great Temptation, and life/ said Sir Ralph. And Lady Danvers, as she glanced up at his dark face, wondered what made him look so strange. CHAPTER VII. IN THE WOODS. The next day, after the men, as usual, had gone out to shoot, Lady Danvers proposed to drive Laura through some of the by-roads of the park in her pony carriage. ' I want you really to see the place, ' she said ; - the house is very well, but the trees are far better.' It was one of those bright autumn days, when the faint, fresh chill in the air invigorates our frames 147 148 A Great Temptation. and raises our spirits. And, as Lady Danvers drove through the long arcades of foliage, Laura, looking upwards at the spreading branches, through which the sun was glinting, and dappling the fern brakes, thought that she had never seen anything so wild and picturesque as these woodland glades. It was all so still and beautiful. No sound but a bird on the wing, or a hare scudding, scared, across the path. And the tints of the trees, the tawny orange, the mellow brown, and the blue mists lying over the dells, filled Laura's artistic soul with wistful delight. ' I shall carry it away in my brain,' she said. ' Oh, if my hand could only portray it ! ' In the Woods, 149 Lady Danvers was charmed with her enthusiasm. ' 1 felt you would love it,' she said. ' When we were first married I was never weary of wandering in these woods.' * I cannot tell what they make me feel/ answered Laura, ' because words never, to my mind, express the deepest and tenderest of our thoughts. We do not talk of our love/ Lady Danvers looked at her greatly interested. 4 You could love very deeply, Mrs Gifford ? ' she said. Laura's only answer was a soft, low sigh. ' It is a doubtful gift you know, I think,' continued Lady Danvers 150 A Great Temptation. 'when one absorbing passion takes possession of our hearts. It may bring great misery ; its very intensity is pain/ 6 Yet it might bring happiness Ñ great happiness.' And again Laura sighed. ' Yes, but I should be afraid to risk it. It is best to be content with small things, and to give moderately. I go on this principle, Mrs Gifford,' added Lady Dan vers, with a little laugh. 'Ah, but you have everything,' said Laura. ' I have much, and I am thankful for it, and I try to make the best of my life, and do my best for those around me, but Ñ there is always a "but," you know.' In the Woods. 151 ' I think there can be none in your lot, Lady Dan vers.' 'Well, I do not mind confiding to you that I did not marry my first love. Dear as my husband is to me, most justly dear, there was someone who was once dearer still/ ' And now ? ' asked Laura eagerly. ' He sleeps in an Indian grave. We had no money between us, and W T alter Meredith went out to India to die.' ' And it was a great blow to you ? ' 'A great and bitter blow, yet, you see, I have got over it. I thought when I married that I had no heart to give to my husband, but I found I had, or something that does very well in its place.' 152 A Great Temptation, ' Still Ñ ' began Laura wistfully. 1 1 am happy and content,' said Lady Danvers ; ' if I had married poor Walter I could have been no more.' 1 1 wish I could feel thus.' * I am older than you, and per- haps colder. But, believe me, it is unwise to love too much/ Lady Danvers spoke almost in a tone of warning. This clever woman had almost unconsciously sounded the depth of her companion's heart. ' She may wreck her life/ she was thinking. ' She does not love her husband, and she may learn to love someone else too well.' With a sort of effort Laura tried to change the conversation. In the Woods, 153 'We are talking quite sentiment- ally, 5 she said. 1 Sense and sentiment ; both very- good things in their way/ laughed Lady Danvers, 'but both to be taken in moderation/ 'This is not a spot to talk sense,' smiled Laura. ' It is certainly very lovely/ said Lady Danvers, looking round at her fair surroundings. ' But let us talk sense for a little while. Tell me of your new home. Of whom does it consist ? ' ' Of my husband's father, a dear, old man, and his niece, whom I cannot say I think dear.' 'A middle-aged woman, I suppose?' ' Yes, I should call Miss Lindsay middle-aged.' 154 A Great Temptation. 'And, therefore, jealous of a younger and handsomer woman? Age either improves the character or deteriorates it; as a rule it improves the large mind, and a small one grows worse. Is this lady large-minded?' ' No ; very small-minded, I should think.' 1 Then forgive me if I warn you to beware of her. Remember, gnats can sting.' Laura laughed pleasantly. ' I am not afraid of her,' she said, 'and George, my husband, does not care for her much either, but she is useful to old Mr Gifford, so we must try not to quarrel with her.' ' Yes, of course. But I am afraid we must turn homewards. The vicar and his wife are cominsr to lunch to- In the Woods. 155 day, for they wish to see me about some alterations in the church ; and my mother comes in the afternoon. I wish you to know her. I think, though she is so old, you will find her more companionable than most of the Suffold people/ ' I am sure I shall like her.' Then Lady Danvers turned the pony's head, and they went back through the winding tracks in the wood, just wide enough for a pony phaeton to advance along, carpeted with mossy turf, and overshadowed by the long branches of the birch, or the sweeping masses of oaken boughs. Laura felt in a state of suppressed excitement, and was won- dering if Sir Ralph Woodland would return to the Park for lunch. But no ; none of the sportsmen did. 156 A Great Temptation. Lunch was sent to them, and the party at the Park consisted merely of the vicar of the parish, his wife, and Lady Danvers and Laura. The vicar was intent on his repairs, and his wife on her children. Lady Danvers sym- pathised with both, and Laura natur- ally felt very little interest in the conversation. When lunch was over, therefore, she asked Lady Danvers' leave to go out once more in the woods. ' But I am afraid I cannot go with you,' said Lady Danvers, ' as my mother would be so disappointed not to find me at home waiting for her when she arrives. But one of the grooms will drive you.' ' I prefer walking,' answered Laura, smiling. ' I wish to see if the won- In the Woods. 157 derful light and shade of the wood- lands will inspire me.' ' Oh, yes ! Go and weave a romance ! I want the Danvers' woods to be im- mortalised/ said Lady Danvers gaily. Thus Laura was free to go, and she went. Went along the mossy paths and the wooded glades. She walked on and on, scarcely noting the time, her heart full of vague and restless long- ings. At last she stopped beneath a mighty oak, spreading its gnarled branches to the sky. Its vast trunk was grey with clinging lichen ; its foliage changing with the changing year, and yellowing in the sun. She was still looking upwards, men- tally measuring the great boughs that drooped to the very ground, and formed an ample tent, whose waving cur- 158 A Great Temptation. tains stirred with the passing breeze, when she heard a footstep approaching her, and, looking hastily round, she saw Sir Ralph Woodland's tall form carrying his gun, coming towards the very tree beneath which she stood. He had not seen her ; did not see her until he caught a glimpse of her grey gown below the shadowing boughs. Then he stopped, took off his cap, laid down his gun, and also went be- neath the spreading oak. ' You startled me,' he said, trying to speak lightly, though his dark face flushed. ' I took you for one of the nymphs of the wood.' ' This is a fitting bower for one/ an- swered Laura, with a smile and a vivid blush. ' Yes. Are you alone ? ' In the Woods, 159 ' Quite alone. The vicar of the parish came to lunch, and I found myself rather in the way, and so set out for a walk in the woods by myself.' * I am glad that I have met you/ said Sir Ralph, looking at her gravely. Laura stirred uneasily, and her eyes fell. 1 I want to talk to you ; to explain my conduct, which must have seemed inexplicable to you.' ' Is it any use to speak of it now ? ' said Laura, with faltering lips. ' It is of use ; to me, at least. You remember my telling you that I had received an anonymous letter warning me against you/ < Yes/ ' And you remember that Ñ this letter 160 A Great Temptation. did not prevent my doing what I had intended to do Ñ that I asked you to be my wife/ ' Yes/ again half whispered Laura. ' You answered that it could not be ; that there was a reason why it could not be.' ' I remember,' said Laura, with a little gasping sigh, and her face grew very pale. 1 1 felt greatly disappointed. I left you with a moody and uneasy heart. I asked myself why you should reject my love when there was, I knew, such a strong bond of sympathy and union between our minds. I knew that then ; I know it now. What could be your reason? Then I remembered the an- onymous letter in which your charac- ter was vilified, and I was actually In the Woods. 161 thinking of this when I accidentally met Miss Patty May.' Laura lifted her dark eyes, and looked him quickly in the face. 'Well?' she said inquiringly. ' She told me an extraordinary thing had happened to her ; that she also had received an anonymous letter against your character, warning her that you were not a proper person for her to know Ñ forgive me speak- ing plainly, but I must know the truth.' Lauras lips slightly curled. 1 She probably wrote both the letters herself,' she said scornfully. * I did not, I could not believe this of any woman at the time, now I have strong doubts on the subject ; nay, I believe she did commit this shameful VOL. II. L 1 62 A Great Temptation. action. However, I went to see her letter, and, as I turned into Maddox Street, I saw you enter the house with a gentleman.' ' It must have been Mr Gifford then, for I never spoke to anyone else.' ' Pardon me for asking you such a question, but were you engaged to Mr Gifford then ? ' ' Most certainly not. He had been my poor father's lawyer, and he was mine ; he had arranged all about my affairs, and had acted in the kindest manner to me. I never spoke to another gentleman in Lon- don except yourself and two publishers. I knew no one. Miss Patty May maligned my character totally with- out reason.' In the Woods. 163 ' I am now only too sure of this. But consider and forgive my natural jealousy and anger. Another day I saw a gentleman hand you into a cab. Then I told myself you were no wife for me ; that your reason for refusing me had probably been your love for another man.' ' It was not ! ' said Laura, and a sudden flush dyed her face from chin to brow. ' I thank God for this/ answered Sir Ralph, in a low, emphatic voice. ' But,' he added, ' I believed this to have been your reason at the time, and I made up my mind to try and forget you. I went abroad, to Paris first, and lead an idle, careless life there ; but I did not do what I meant to do. I could not forget you ; and at last, after some 164 A Great Temptation. months, I decided to return to town and try to learn the truth more fully.' 'About me?' ' Yes ; about you. Well, I did return. I went the very next day to your rooms in Maddox Street. That little wretch, Patty May, must have seen me at the house door. The servant told me you had left some time ago, and Patty May came rushing down to meet me. I wanted to hear about you, and I went into her rooms for the purpose. I asked about you, and she put on a shocked air. She said there had been a great scandal about you ; that you had left Maddox Street some months ago, and that you had gone away with a young man.' In the Woods. 165 * How shameful ! How utterly shame- ful ! ' cried Laura indignantly. ' You may well say how shameful. But this news, this lie, was a bitter blow to me. Unconsciously I had cherished a hope that I might have been mistaken before. Now, what could I believe ? A few days later I met you in the Park, and when you bowed and smiled I felt only anger and scorn.' 6 And you passed me without a word,' said Laura, with a strange pathos in her voice. * Passed me at a time when a kind word from a friend would have been much to me. Now, let me tell you my story ; tell you the reason I left Maddox Street, but not with a young man ! I left it be- cause I was too poor to stay ; because 1 66 A Great Temptation, one disappointment after another had happened to me. I went to shabby lodgings in Edgware Road, and there, also, had nothing but trouble. I spent my last fifty pounds in trying to get my novel published. I was left with- out money. I could not pay my land- lady, who was insolent to me Ñ ' * Good heavens ! ' interrupted Sir Ralph, with passionate impatience, 'and all this time I was thinking of you, wearing my heart out for your sake ! ' ' And at last,' continued Laura, as though unmindful of his words, ' at last, when the landlady would, I am sure, have turned me homeless into the streets unless I had paid her by a certain day Ñ I wrote to Mr Gifford. He had told me before I left Suffold that if ever I needed a friend I had In the Woods. 167 to think of him. I wrote to ask him to lend me ten poundsÑ' 'And he came? I understand now,' said Sir Ralph, with suppressed bitter- ness. 6 He came ; he brought money ; he was most generous. And after awhile Ñ he asked me to be his wife Ñ I was very friendless, and so I Ñ ' Tears rushed into Laura's eyes as, in broken accents, she faltered out these last words, and she turned her head away to try to conceal them, but Sir Ralph caught her hand and bent down his head and kissed it. ? Will you Ñ can you forgive me ? ' he said. 'There is nothing to forgive,' answered Laura, a little sob half choking her voice ; ' you were deceived by Miss 1 68 A Great Temptation. May, and he Ñ my husband Ñ is very good to me.' Sir Ralph did not speak. He stood there holding her hand, his heart full of emotions he dare not tell. CHAPTER VIII. A ROW. ' I think I must go now,' said Laura, a moment later, and she gently drew her hand away from Sir Ralph's trembling grasp. He did not ask her to stay. He put aside the drooping branches of the oak for her to pass from beneath it, and followed her, picking up his gun as he went. 1 May I walk with you to the Park ? ' he asked, as he rejoined her. 169 170 A Great Temptation. ' Yes,' answered Laura, and for some minutes not another word was exchanged between them. They walked side by side Ñ these two who loved each other in silence Ñ for what was there to say ? Sir Ralph was inwardly cursing Patty May, whose treachery he believed had lost him the woman he loved. But Laura was not thinking of Patty May. She was thinking of her dead father's letter, and the cruel legacy he had left to her young life. ' Under any circumstances it could not have been,' she was telling herself mournfully. Twice Sir Ralph turned his head and looked at her before he spoke again. He saw her delicate profile, her drooped head, her quivering lips. Then, sud- denly, there flashed across his mind A Row. 171 the remembrance of something she had said. ' May I ask you one more question ? ' he said. ' Yes,' answered Laura, without raising her head. ' You told me a little while ago that it was not from any attachment to anyone else that made you refuse me ? Will you tell me what was your reason ? ' Laura was silent. 'Was it that you did not care for me, that you were indifferent to me ? ' urged Sir Ralph. 'Oh, hush! hush, Sir Ralph!' cried Laura, in great agitation. ' I pray you to tell me the truth ? ' c I cannot,' answered Laura, and she put her hand over her face. ' But this 172 A Great Temptation. much I will tell you, I cared for no one else/ 'You were bound to no one else ? ' * I was not ; most certainly not. Mr Gifford had asked me to marry him before I left Suffold, and I had re- fused him. He was the only lover I ever had/ 'There was one exception, at least,' said Sir Ralph, with some bitterness. ' Oh, do not speak of it, Sir Ralph ! There was a reason Ñ a pain- ful reason Ñ but it had nothing to do with you nor me. I was forced to act as I did/ 'And but for this reason you might have loved me?' said Sir Ralph slowly. Laura did not speak. A Row. 173 Laura, did you love me? My heart told me that you did.' Then Laura looked at him, and there was reproach in her eyes. 'Is this generous?' she said. ' No, it is ungenerous,' he answered ; 1 1 admit that Ñ but even now Ñ ' He said nothing more. A few minutes later he pointed to a winding woodland path which branched off from the one on which they were then walking. ' This is a wonderful place, isn't it ? ' he said, almost in his ordinary voice. 'It is very beautiful,' answered Laura, in faltering tones. ' Do you ever sketch from nature? Do you think you could sketch here ? ' ' I am afraid not.' 1 We might try some day. Lady 174 A Great Temptation. Danvers sketches fairly well. I must ask her to get up a sketching party.' No, no, I could not,' answered Laura. She could not recover her composure as quickly as he had done ; she was trembling. The very knowledge that he had always loved her, that his estrangement even had been part of his love Ñ his jealous love Ñ filled her heart with the deepest emotion. Sir Ralph evidently wished to talk of other things, but she could not. ' And these girls,' she said, ' Miss May Ñ have you seen her lately ? ' ' 1 have had a letter from her,' an- swered Sir Ralph, with a little shrug of his shoulders. ' I know where to find her, and I shall call her strictly to account for the mischief she has done A Row. 175 ' That is only right Ñ and yet Ñ ' ' Do you not wish me to do this ? ' asked Sir Ralph quickly. 1 1 do wish it ; but I was thinking Ñ we met, you see, here, as strangers Ñ perhaps more mischief might come of it ! ¥ ' I understand what you mean ; but it was such shameful conduct, and to allow her to go unpunished?' ' Still Ñ ' hesitated Laura. I I shall cut her at all events/ said Sir Ralph grimly, 4 and she won't like that' I I suppose Ñ she must like you ? ' 1 She wishes to marry me, I be- lieve,' answered Sir Ralph scornfully, and with a contemptuous shrug. But by this time they had neared the house, and Sir Ralph did not offer to accompany Laura any further. 176 A Great Temptation. ' I will go round by the gun-room, he said. ' But we will meet at dinner ; and Ñ and Ñ I shall never forget what I have heard to-day.' Laura made no reply to this. She knew also that she would never forget what she had heard that day ; but she knew also that she must make no sign. She made haste, therefore, to go into the small drawing-room, where she found quite a large party drinking tea and otherwise refreshing themselves. Some of the sportsmen had come in, and among them was George Gifford. ' Why, Laura,' he said, going up to her, as she entered the room, ' I've been wondering what had become of you ? Lady Danvers said you had gone out to walk in the wood, and I was just going to start out to seek you.' A Row. 177 ' I have had quite a long walk,' an- swered Laura, ' the woods are so beautiful.' * Yes, aren't they jolly ; we must go for a walk in them some day.' 'Yes.' 1 But, Laura, I've had a letter from my father by this afternoon's post, and I find that I shall be obliged to go back to Suffold to-morrow on some important business. But I could leave you here and return for you on Friday, if you would like that ? Lady Dan vers asked you, you know/ Laura was silent for a moment or two, and then she said slowly, Ñ * No, I think not, George I think I should rather go back with you.' ' Well, just as you like, my dear. Of course I shall be very pleased if VOL. II. M 178 A Great Temptation. you will go back with me, only I did not like to shorten a pleasant visit for you. * I think I will go with you,' answered Laura, with a wistful look in her dark eyes. She was thinking ' I am better away ; better out of his sight; ' but George Gifford could not read her thoughts, and was pleased that his young wife was ready to give up a pleasant visit for his sake. He went and brought her some tea, and he was still standing beside her when Sir Ralph Woodland entered the room, and at once approached the husband and wife. But he said nothing about his meeting with Laura in the woods. He asked George Gifford about the day's shooting, and the extent of the A Row. 179 bag. He spoke, in fact, more to George than to Laura, and presently Laura left them, and went to talk to Lady Danvers and tell her that she proposed to return the next day to Suffold. But Lady Danvers would not hear of this. ' No,' she said, in her pretty way, ' I will not allow Mr Gifford to take you away. I want you to get "copy" Ñ is that the word? Ñ for your next new novel in the Danvers' woods. Mr Gifford, come here!' and she beckoned to George, who crossed the room to speak to his hostess. 1 Mr Gifford, here is this charming wife of yours telling me that you are beginning to act the tyrant lord and master already ! That because 180 A Great Temptation. you have to go away to-morrow on business for a short time that she has to go away too ! I really won't have it ! ' George laughed. * It was Lauras own proposal, Lady Danvers, not mine,' he said. 'Well, you see, George, I thought Ñ ' began Laura, with a blush. 'You must not think of it any more, then, Mrs Gifford; your hus- band will come back for you. Why, you've seen nothing of my mother, nothing of Sir Richard, nothing of me!' 'You are very kind, Lady Danvers, butÑ' 'I will listen to no "buts." Let us settle it for her, Mr Gifford. When do you propose to return ? ' A Row. 181 1 On Friday,' answered George, good- naturedly. ' You had better stay, Laura, until then/ They settled it thus. George was to leave for Suffold the next day, Thursday, and to return to the Park on Friday, and their visit was to terminate on Saturday. Laura could scarcely help assenting to this arrangement without rudeness to Lady Danvers, whom she liked so much. She therefore gave way, and glanced half timidly across the room to where Sir Ralph was standing as she did so. He was talking to some men, and he went on talking to them ; and after dinner it was the same thing. He, in fact, made no attempt to speak to her again during the rest 1 82 A Great Temptation. of the evening. But Laura noticed that he talked a good deal to George, and George was evidently pleased by this. ' That's a very nice fellow that Sir Ralph Woodland,' he said to Laura afterwards ; * he's got plenty of common sense.' ' He talks very well,' answered Laura. * Yes ; and they say he has a large fortune, so I suppose he'll be getting married to some girl soon.' And these careless words gave a fresh pang to Laura's heart. What if he were to get married soon ? Would it be better, be happier for them both? Laura knew that it would be, and yet she shrank from the thought as a patient shrinks from A Row. 183 the knife. She might keep out of his way, but she did not care to think that another woman should come between them. She did not see him again until after George was gone. George left early, and there were some fresh arrivals expected during the morning at the Park ; Sir Richard and Lady Danvers entertaining during the autumn a continual succession of guests. So Laura sat with her hostess and her venerable mother during the morning in Lady Danvers' boudoir, which is one of the prettiest rooms in the house, with a bay - window looking towards the west. Mrs Lynton, white-haired, aged, and dignified, did not say much. But the other two women touched on most of the subjects of the day ; chiefly on 184 A Great Temptation. those vague yearnings which induce many to seek to pierce the veil which wraps the hidden things from our ken. ' It is all such a mystery Ñ such a mystery ! ' said Laura, rising in some excitement, and going to the bay- window which overlooked part of the ter- race. e We are born, and we cannot help ourselves ; we die, and we cannot help ourselves ; and in life, it seems to me, that we cannot help ourselves either. 5 1 My dear,' said Mrs Lynton's gentle voice, ' in one way we can help our- selves ; we can lay all our troubles at the feet of our Heavenly Father, and ask His aid to help us to bear them.' 4 But why have we troubles ? ' asked Laura. A Row. 185 1 I believe to prepare us for the un- troubled land hereafter/ answered the white-haired lady, whose own lot had not always been a smooth one. '"Who going through the vale of misery use it for a well." But it is easier for the old to feel this than the young.' Laura made no answer. On the ter- race below at this moment appeared the tall, grey - clad figure of a man, whom Laura instantly recognised. Recognised with a sudden tumultuous throbbing at her heart, and a deep flush on her oval cheeks. It was Sir Ralph Woodland, and he found the ladies in the small dining-room when the luncheon hour came. 'Then you are not with the rest, Sir Ralph ? ' said Lady Danvers, smiling when she saw him. 1 86 A Great Temptation. ' No, I have been in the house all the morning, except for half-an-hour's smoke on the terrace. I have been writing business letters and returning a love letter/ answered Sir Ralph, and he looked at Laura as he spoke. * Returning a love letter ! ' repeated Lady Danvers, with a laugh. ' What an extraordinary proceeding ! ' 1 Quite a necessary one, I assure you, said Sir Ralph. c And the poor girl ? Are you break- ing anyone's heart, Sir Ralph ? ' c No, I am quite sure I am not ; the young lady in this case has no heart to break.' Lady Danvers laughed and turned away to receive some fresh visitors who had just arrived at the Park Ñ a Colonel and Mrs Vanhurst. The Colonel was A Row. 187 a fine grey-haired old soldier, and his wife a pretty little woman who easily went into ecstacies. She went into ecstacies now on the beauties of Danvers Park and its surroundings, and occupied Lady Danvers' attention. Then Sir Ralph crossed over to where Laura was standing. 'You know to whom I returned my love letter ? ' he said, smiling. Laura also smiled. 'You will only get a more tender appeal in return, and a demand for an explanation,' she answered. ' Which I shall also return ; I shall never speak another word to her.' 6 I think it would be the wisest plan, said Laura, lowering her voice. 1 What are you going to do this afternoon ? ' then asked Sir Ralph. 1 88 A Great Temptation. 'What the others do, I suppose/ said Laura. ' Probably that gushing little woman yonder will want to see over the grounds. Would you like a row on the lake?' ' We must leave Lady Danvers to decide how her guests shall amuse themselves.' When luncheon was over Mrs Van- hurst entreated them to go over the place, ' and explore the lovely woods ! ' she cried, clapping her little hands together in her well-feigned enthusi- asm. ' We will all go then,' said Lady Danvers. ' Mrs Vanhurst, allow me to present Sir Ralph Woodland to you.' ' And will you be my guide through the woods?' said the pretty little woman, A Row. 189 raising her fine eyes to Sir Ralph's face with a look of pathetic appeal and innocence. c I should have been charmed,' he an- swered grimly, ' only I have already promised to row another lady on the lake.' And he looked at Laura as he spoke, who turned her head away, and affected not to hear what he had said. ' And can I not row too ? ' asked Mrs Vanhurst sweetly, who did not wish to lose the company of the most dis- tinguished-looking man in the room. 'The woods are well worth seeing,' answered Sir Ralph, turning away. ' Do not forsake me in my trouble,' the next moment he half whispered in Laura's ear. ' You promised, remember, to row with me on the lake/ 190 A Great Temptation. Laura could not help smiling, but Sir Ralph got his own way. ' I am going to row Mrs GiffordV he said calmly, when Lady Danvers ap- proached them, and little Mrs Vanhurst was forced to start to explore the woods in the Ñ to her Ñ wearisome company of her husband and Lady Danvers, for she was tired of her husband, and always tired of all women. In the meanwhile the two who were going down to the lake were smiling over her discomfiture. 'You behaved very badly to that little lady, Sir Ralph,' said Laura. ' I hate gushing women,' he answered. ' It was awfully good of you to come to my rescue.' ' You gave me no choice.' ' I wished you to come so much.' A Row. 191 They did not say much after this. They walked together over the smooth, green sward, down to the shining lake, by whose margin the tall reeds reared their graceful heads. There was a small island in the centre of the lake, and this was inhabited by a great quantity of water-fowl. A peaceful scene, silent, beautiful, and well suited to the mood of the two, who stood looking at the blue depth of the sun-lit water, round which the willows drooped, and the breeze softly stole. There were two boats moored to the shore, and one of these Sir Ralph pre- sently drew in, and, having assisted Laura into the boat, pushed off, and began to row across the lake. The rhythmic dip of the oars, the romantic beauty of the scene, seemed to cast a sort of spell 192 A Great Temptation. over Laura's soul. The last few months seemed to pass away from her mind. She was a girl again, listening once more to her lover's voice. Yet no word of love came from Sir Ralph's firm lips. He knew if he had spoken such he would have frightened her ; that he would have destroyed the charm of that tacit agreement that bound their hearts. But it was a perilous hour to both. Deepening the strong passion in the man's heart, and filling the woman's whole being with a vague sense of hap- piness she had never felt before. And not until the sun began to dip in the west, and a chill breeze crept over the darkening water, did Laura recall her- self from that blissful trance. ' It must be getting late,' she said. ' You had better row in, Sir Ralph.' A Row. 193 ' So soon ? ' he answered. Ah, it was too soon for him. Too soon for her. Time had rushed on in that golden hour as it flies to cheat us of our joy. Yet he did not disobey her wish, nor attempt to detain her. He rowed slowly back to the landing place. He assisted Laura from the boat, and then both, as if by mutual consent, turned round to look at the now shadowed lake. ' I shall never forget it/ said Sir Ralph, in a low tone. 1 I shall see it in my dreams,' thought Laura; but a moment later she roused herself. 1 Come, Sir Ralph, let us make haste ; they will think we are lost,' she said. And so the two turned and w r ent away. VOL. II. N CHAPTER IX. A VISITOR. They walked quickly back to the house, and did not encounter any of the other guests on their way there, and when Laura reached her own room she felt glad that they had not done so. Yet she had done nothing wrong, she told herself. It was all so beauti- ful, she added, and then, with a sigh, she commenced to dress for dinner, unfastening her long, brown hair, which 194 A Visitor. 195 was remarkable for its beauty and thickness. What made her look at herself so earnestly in the mirror as she did so ? Was she pleased at the new beauty in her face, at the glow on her oval cheeks ? She was not a vain woman, but what woman is there who would not look fair to some eyes ? It might be wrong, but she chose to wear her prettiest gown, though she did not clasp the diamonds George had given her round her slender throat. She looked like a beautiful girl when she went into the small draw- ing-room where the guests were as- sembled before dinner. She was dressed in white, with some crimson roses that Lady Danvers had asked 196 A Great Temptation, one of the gardeners to cut for her in the morning in her hair and at her breast. Sir Ralph Woodland was leaning against one of the walls of the room as she went in, and his eyes scarcely- left her face after she entered. Never had he seen her so beautiful, he thought. The richness and glow of her colouring was so different to when he had met her in town. He recalled at this moment the young artist he had first admired sitting at her work ; the grave girl who had raised her dark eyes to his with such proud indifference. Ah, there was no indifference in them now. Presently their eyes met, and something in that shadowed glance, for her eyelids quickly fell, made Sir A Visitor, 197 Ralph cross the room and approach her side. 1 You are not tired, I hope ? ' he said. ' But I see you are not,' he added, and he smiled. ' No, I am not tired,' answered Laura, softly. At this moment, however, pretty little Mrs Vanhurst also drew near. She had found the walk in the woods very tiresome, and she did not see why ' that Mrs GifTord ' should have Sir Ralph Woodland all to herself. ' Had you a charming row on the lake ? ' she said, addressing Sir Ralph. * Ah, I quite envied you.' 4 It was very nice down there this afternoon.' replied Sir Ralph, in an indifferent tone. ' I love the water,' continued Mrs 198 A Great Temptation. Vanhurst. ' If the morning is fine, will you give me a row, too, Sir Ralph ?' 'Too proud,' he answered, with a slightly sarcastic ring in his voice ; but Mrs Vanhurst was by no means thin- skinned. And, to Sir Ralph's great annoyance, he was presently requested to take her in to dinner, while her husband, Colonel Vanhurst, escorted Laura. Mrs Vanhurst was one of those little women who try to make every man they meet in love with them. But it was simply her vanity she wished to gratify. She therefore did her very best during dinner to make Sir Ralph first in love with himself and then with her. She flattered him ; she looked at him A Visitor. 199 with her fine eyes, and played with them unceasingly. She admired Sir Ralph ; admired his dark, distinguished face, in which lin- gered, she afterwards declared, ' one tinge of sadness, one touch of scorn/ 'You look like a hero,' she told him. ' Have you ever done anything heroic ? I believe you have/ ' Never/ truthfully affirmed Sir Ralph. 'Ah, come now. When you have been out after big game in India or Africa, have you not saved some com- rade's life by your bravery? I feel sure you have ? ' ' My biggest game has been the red rover of the furrows,' laughed Sir Ralph. ' I could fancy you a great sportsman, you look so brave, so strong. I love 200 A Great Temptation. courage in men, you know, though I am such a frightful little coward my- self/ ' Pray, say a charming little coward.' 1 You know what I mean ! How naughty of you to laugh at me. But you must not be naughty any more, as I feel sure we shall be friends. I know by instinct those I shall like, do you ?' 'And how do you know those you shall like ? ' parried Sir Ralph. ' By their faces Ñ by their eyes ; I read their souls/ ' I hope not,' devoutly said Sir Ralph. ' Ah, what a naughty, naughty man you are ! I shall have to scold you and keep you in order. How long are you going to stay here ? ' A Visitor. 201 1 I am not quite sure.' ' We are asked for three days. I do hope you will stay all the time I am here, and then I shall see some- thing more of you.' 1 What, when I am so naughty ? ' ' Well, you know, I rather like naughty men, to tell the truth/ Here the fine eyes made tremendous play. * Not too naughty, you know ? ' * 1 am afraid you will find me too naughty.' ' I will take the risk/ Sir Ralph gave a grim little laugh. This pretty woman did not even amuse him Ñ she bored him, and he was watch- ing Laura across the table all the time she was chattering folly into his ears. 1 Do you admire that Mrs Gifford, the lady you rowed so long with this 202 A Great Temptation. afternoon ? ' now inquired Mrs Van- hurst. * She is good-looking,' he answered coldly. * They say she is a bride, and that her husband is a country lawyer, or something of that sort. I wonder at Lady Danvers having her here.' ' I believe Lady Danvers admires her extremely.' ' Indeed ! And does Sir Ralph Wood- land admire her extremely ? ' 1 I certainly admire her,' answered Sir Ralph repressively. 'Then I do not. I own I do not. There is something about her Ñ I do not know what it is Ñ perhaps her class, that seems to me underbred ! ' Sir Ralph made no reply to this. He looked across the table at the hand- A Visitor. 203 some, clever face, so full of life and beauty, and he heartily wished the flattering little woman by his side was anywhere but where she was. And she irritated him so greatly that when the ladies left the table, Mrs Vanhurst giv- ing him a parting smile and glance, he determined that he would not exchange another word with her dur- ing the evening. But Mrs Vanhurst was an old cam- paigner, and stationed herself on her return to the small drawing-room on a charming couch, just opposite the door of the room that she concluded the gentlemen would enter by. Presently her husband and Sir Ralph did enter by it, but when she looked up smilingly, she found Sir Ralph's head was high in the air, and his eyes fixed over her 204 A Great Temptation. own pretty head, and he strode past her couch with a very determined air indeed. There was nothing left, therefore, for Mrs Vanhurst but to smile on her husband, which she did with a very bad grace. And when she looked round after Sir Ralph she found he was stand- ing talking to Mrs Gifford. ' It is disgusting the way that woman goes on,' she thought. She grew restless. She rose from the side of her grey- haired husband, and crossed the room in the direction of Laura and Sir Ralph. But as she did so Sir Ralph offered his arm to Laura, and the two proceeded towards the large conservatory at one end of the room, and disappeared from Mrs Vanhurst's view among the palms and orange trees. A Visitor, 205 ' I am positively afraid of that woman,' Sir Ralph was saying. * It is very ungrateful of you/ smiled Laura. ' She bored me so fearfully at dinner.' ' I am sure she was looking at you most sweetly.' * It's horrid a woman like that talking to you Ñ when you want to think of something else. Will you sit down here ? ' He pointed to a seat under a spreading palm as he spoke, but Laura hesitated. ' Do, for once,' he urged. He had a strange influence on her ; it was almost as if he willed her to do a thing that she could not resist his power. She sat down, she leaned back, and breathed the 206 A Great Temptation. fragrant air. There was a hum of voices in the distance from the draw- ing-room beyond, but they were alone in the conservatory. Laura sighed softly, and Sir Ralph turned round and looked in her face. 1 What is troubling you ? ' he asked. * Nothing, only Ñ ' 'Only what?' ' I was thinking of my ordinary life Ñ so different to the life here, and as I return to Suffold to- morrow Ñ ' ' You return to-morrow ? ' asked Sir Ralph quickly. 6 Yes, Mr Gifford is coming for me to-morrow, and we return by an early train.' Sir Ralph did not speak for a moment. He put out one of his A Visitor. 207 strong, sinewy hands nervously, and broke off a shining orange-tree leaf as if unconscious of what he was doing. Then suddenly he bent for- ward, and looked in Laura's face. 4 Are you glad that you came here?' he asked, in a low tone. * Glad that you know now how shamefully I was deceived ? ' 1 Yes, I am glad to know,' an- swered Laura, and she moved her fan restlessly as she spoke. * I cannot forgive myself for being such a fool, but I have paid a bitter price for it.' * Best not to speak of it,' half whispered Laura. ' Only to think of it Ñ that is hard, very hard.' He rose as he said this, and go- 208 A Great Temptation. ing up to a beautiful white moss rose tree, he plucked a bud, and returned with it in his hand, and laid it on Laura's lap. 'Take that for the sake of old times/ he said. She did not refuse ; her hand stole down to the rose, but at this moment Lady Danvers and Mrs Van- hurst entered the conservatory. 6 Is that a flirtation ? ' asked Mrs Vanhurst of her hostess. ' No, certainly not,' answered Lady Danvers decidedly. ' That is a young married woman, Mrs Gifford ; she hardly knows Sir Ralph Woodland, they only met here a few days ago.' Mrs Vanhurst shrugged her shoul- ders airily. She was not as a rule A Visitor. 209 spiteful to other women, but she was spiteful now because Sir Ralph Woodland had twice left her to the society of her husband for Laura's sake. Yet she disguised her feel- ings, and smiled as sweetly as ever when she approached the spot where Sir Ralph and Laura were. Laura covered the white rosebud under her fan as Lady Danvers and Mrs Van- hurst drew near, and Sir Ralph noted this little action before he turned to speak to Lady Danvers and compliment her on the beauty of her flowers. They all returned to the drawing- room together, and during the rest of the evening Laura had no further con- versation with Sir Ralph. He went to play billiards, and when she went vol. n. o 210 A Great Temptation. down to breakfast the next morning he was nowhere to be seen. 'The gentlemen are all off to Lord Redver's place early this morning/ ex- plained Lady Danvers, and Laura felt a chill, cold feeling at her heart that Sir Ralph had not stayed to bid her good-bye, when she had told him she was leaving the Park early in the day. And during the morning George Gifford arrived, and immediately after luncheon the husband and wife started on their return to Suffold. Lady Dan- vers was exceedingly kind in her manner to Laura, and pressed her soon to re- turn to the Park. But all the same this clever woman had begun to feel that perhaps she had not done the wisest thing in taking Laura from her A Visitor. 2 1 1 home. She had noticed Sir Ralph Woodland's attentions, though she had not chosen to admit this to Mrs Van- hurst. And she knew also that Sir Ralph was a very different man to George Gifford. and without knowing anything of Sir Ralph's former ac- quaintance with Laura, she thought him a somewhat dangerous friend for the young wife. But during their journey home to- gether Laura tried hard not to let George see that she did not look for- ward with pleasure to her return. It seemed so dull and dreary this quiet country town after all the beauties and excitement of Danvers Park, and the strange meeting and explanation of Sir Ralph was naturally foremost in her mind. She could think of nothing else. 212 A Great Temptation. And when she once more found her- self in Red House, and looked round at its sombre walls, the last few days seemed to have been a glimpse of another life. Old Mr Gifford welcomed her back with kindness and pleasure ; Anna Lind- say with secret malice and all uncharit- ableness. She had ordered a very good dinner to show how much better a housekeeper she was than Laura, but Laura did not seem to have any appetite, and scarcely noticed all the delicacies she had prepared. ' You are not eating much, Mrs George,' she remarked, looking disapprovingly at Laura's plate. ' Oh ! please do not call me Mrs George, Miss Lindsay/ answered Laura, with a smile. A Visitor. 213 1 Oh ! I did not know you did not like your husband's name,' said Anna Lindsay, with a little toss of her head. ' It is not that, of course, but Mrs George sounds so Ñ ' 'Well, of course, I'm not accustomed to the fine company and ways of Danvers Park/ said Anna Lindsay, as Laura paused before the word ' common ' had passed her lips. George, who was thoroughly enjoy- ing the good dinner that Anna had ordered, now looked up from his plate with a smile. ' What nonsense, Anna/ he said, good- naturedly. ' Of course Laura is not Mrs George, but Mrs Gifford ; if my poor mother had been alive it would have been different, but I think be- 214 A Great Temptation. tween near relations you might drop the Mrs and Miss altogether.' ' I have not been asked to do so, George/ replied Anna Lindsay, and Laura did not speak. This vulgar woman irritated her more than usual ; perhaps, as Anna had taunted her, it was so after the dif- ferent atmosphere of Danvers Park. And so the next two days passed drearily enough away. Mrs Brentwood called on Laura to ask all about 'dear Lady Danvers,' and her visit to Danvers Park. Mrs Masterman also called on the same errand. No little jealousy had indeed been created in the minds of the vicar's family by Lady Danvers' invitation to Laura. ' She never would have seen her but for us,' they said to each other, A Visitor. 215 and somehow they felt themselves in- jured. But still they wanted to hear all about it, and asked Laura many questions as to the number of the guests, and their names, to which Laura gave somewhat reserved replies. ' She quite gives herself airs on the subject, I declare,' Mrs Masterman said to her mother, and Mrs Brentwood al- most agreed with her. ' 1 wonder if she will be asked again ? ' she speculated, and Laura sometimes wondered this too, and would sigh as she did so. But the third day after her return to Suffold something happened which filled her heart half with dismay, half with joy. George, as usual, had gone down to his office soon after breakfast, and about two o'clock an especial 216 A Great Temptation. messenger brought up a letter from him to Laura, which was as follows : Ñ 1 My dear Laura, Ñ You will remem- ber Sir Ralph Woodland, whom we met at Danvers Park ? Well, I have had him at the office this morning about the purchase of the Hare wood estate, which is four miles from Suffold. Young Harewood came into the property only- three years ago, but he has been making ducks and drakes of his for- tune ever since. Finally, he has got quite fast, and wants to sell Hare- wood, which ought to bring a good figure. There's a fine old hall, and it's a splendid game country, and in the old man's time was well kept up. However, Sir Ralph Woodland is after it, and I must try to make a bargain A Visitor, 217 with him. And as we met him at Lady Danvers, and he was very civil, I thought I could do no less than ask him to dinner to-day. So, dear, will you order a good dinner at seven o'clock (don't mind a little extra expense, and I think it would be as well to consult Anna Lindsay, as she is a good hand at entries), and get a waiter. There's rather a good fellow at ' The George.' At all events, get someone, as I don't think your wait- ing-maid is quite up to her business. Ñ And I remain, dear Laura, yours affec- tionately, George Gifford.' ' P.S. Ñ Sir Ralph promised to be at Red House seven sharp. I will be home in time to put out the wine. <G.' CHAPTER X. HAREWOOD. As Laura read this letter the most varying emotions passed through her heart, and she trembled with excitement. But she had no time to waste. She hurried to Anna Lindsay's room, who was dressing for her afternoon's walk, and rapped at the door. ' Come in/ called Anna, and Laura entered, carrying George's letter in her hand. ' Miss Lindsay, I've had a note from 218 Harewood. 219 George,' she began, ' and he has asked Ñ a gentleman that we met at Danvers Park to dinner to-day, and Ñ he says he thinks I had better consult you about the dinner.' 6 Oh, indeed ! ' said Anna Lindsay, who was tying her bonnet strings, and she turned round and looked at the agitated face of her cousin's wife. ' He wants everything to be very nice,' went on Laura, nervously; 'but perhaps you had better read his letter,' and she put George's letter into her hand. Miss Lindsay read it, and an un- doubted feeling of triumph swelled in her heart. 'Sir Ralph Woodland?' she said. 'Is he a baronet? Naturally George wants everything to be very nice. Well, we 220 A Great Temptation. must do our best Ñ but perhaps you would prefer me not to interfere.' ' Nay, I have come to ask your advice,' replied Laura, with rather a forced smile. It must be admitted that Anna Lind- say was a good housekeeper, and, no doubt, a better and more experienced one than Laura. In a few minutes she had dictated an excellent dinner, and the cook was sent for. Then Laura went out to buy flowers and fruit, whilst Anna proceeded to order the substantial part of the entertainment. They were both anxious that everything should go off well, and Anna was proud that George should have thought of her on an especial occasion. ' He threw me over,' she reflected, 1 but he's had to come back to me ; I Harewood. 221 thought the dinner yesterday would disgust him, but young madam, I sup- pose, is above housekeeping after she has been at Dan vers Park.' But even she was forced to admit that Laura decorated the table and rooms with very good taste. And all the time Laura felt in a state of sup- pressed excitement that it was very difficult to hide. Her hands were trem- bling, and her cheeks were flushed ; but when George came in he never noticed this, but hurried to the cellar to bring out some of his best wine. By the time, however, that Sir Ralph arrived at Red House, all the family were ready to receive him. Laura, looking very handsome in her moss- green silk, held out a trembling hand in greeting, as the waiter from 'The 222 A Great Temptation. George* threw open the drawing-room door and announced 'Sir Ralph Wood- land.' ' Are you not surprised to see me ? ' he asked, gravely. ' No,' answered Laura, with down- cast eyes and fluttering breast ; ' Mr Gifford told me he expected you.' ' It was very good of Mr Gifford to ask me to dine with him,' said Sir Ralph, turning to his host; and George, of course, expressed the pleasure it gave him to receive Sir Ralph, and then introduced him to his father and Miss Lindsay. The dinner went off very well, and the guest did his best to make him- self agreeable to everyone at the table. He talked to old Mr Gifford, and even to Anna Lindsay, and he said Harewood. 223 only a few words in private to Laura during the whole evening. She was showing him some valuable old engrav- ings, and as she turned one over he said in a low tone, Ñ ' Will you be angry if I become your neighbour ? ' She made no reply to his question. George came up, and the conversation once more became general. They be- gan talking of Harewood, and George rather enlarged on the picturesque beauty of the place. 1 1 will go over it to-morrow, 7 said Sir Ralph, 'if it is convenient to you, Mr Gifford? And perhaps the ladies will go too,' he added, looking smil- ingly, first at Laura and then at Anna Lindsay ; ' it will be a little excur- sion.' 224 A Great Temptation. Laura smiled also, but shook her head. ; We should only be in the way,' she said. 'Not in the least, I assure you/ replied Sir Ralph; 'I think Mr Gifford and I have nearly settled the business part of the arrangement, and I only want to see about some repairs that may be necessary. Do come, Mrs Gifford?' 'Yes, Laura, you had better go, and Anna too,' said George, pleasantly. 1 It would be very nice/ said Anna Lindsay, who liked the idea of being seen in the company of Sir Ralph Woodland. ' Let us settle it, then, if Mrs Gifford will give her consent,' answered Sir Ralph, looking at Laura. Harewood. 225 " Well if you all wish it,' smiled Laura. ' It's not a long drive, and I'll get a carriage,' said George; 'and you had better go with us also, Sir Ralph.' ' I shall be very pleased to do so, Mr Gifford. What time will suit you and Mrs Gifford best?' They finally settled that Sir Ralph was to come to Red House for lunch at half-past one o'clock, and that the car- riage was to be ordered for half-past two Ñ George promising to return from his office in time. Shortly after this was arranged, Sir Ralph Woodland went away, and George and Anna Lindsay spoke warmly in his praise after he had gone. vol. 11. p 226 A Great Temptation. 1 He's a fine-looking, gentlemanly man,' said Anna. ' He's a nice fellow, and doesn't put on any side, like some of these young swells do,' quoth George. But Laura said nothing. She turned away her head. She began rearrang- ing the flowers in a vase, and Anna Lindsay wondered at her silence. ' Did you see much of him at Dan- vers Park?' she asked, addressing George. ' A good deal ; and he was very civil all the time,' answered George. ' He doesn't seem much of a lady's man, but I suppose his day will come, like it does to the most of us,' he added, with a laugh ; and still Anna noticed that Laura did not speak. ' Perhaps he is thinking of buying Harewood. 227 Harewood to bring his bride there,' she said. ' Oh, no ; more as a kind of shooting- lodge, I think,' replied George. ' He has a fine place of his own in York- shire ; but he's a great sportsman, it seems, and I think Harewood will just suit him.' Then old Mr Gifford began talking of the late squire of Harewood, and lamenting over the follies of the pre- sent one, and the conversation drifted away from Sir Ralph Woodland. But naturally in the morning they returned to the subject. George went out early to order a carriage, and Laura and Anna Lindsay consulted about the luncheon. Anna was quite excited at the idea of the coming excursion, but Laura was un- 228 A Great Temptation. usually grave and pale. She was in the drawing - room alone when Sir Ralph arrived a few minutes before he was expected, and just as Anna Lindsay entered the room she over- heard him say, in his somewhat deep voice, Ñ 'You were quite right about Miss Patty May. I have received such a letter from her, and have returned that also. 7 And there was something in his tone that attracted Anna's sharp ears. It implied an intimacy that their manner to each other before people did not indicate. He moved, too, rather quickly from her side as Anna en- tered, but then that was merely to go forward to shake hands with Anna. But still a first suspicion that they Harewood. 229 were acting a part entered this woman's brain. She secretly watched them at luncheon, and she watched them as Sir Ralph and George sat opposite to them afterwards in the carriage, and more than once she caught Sir Ralph's dark eyes fixed on Laura's face. Then, when they reached Harewood, after going over the house, which looked dull and dreary, as all uninhabited houses do, the little party proceeded to the grounds, where the October sun- shine was falling on the tall elms and grass - grown walks. Naturally now they could not all walk abreast, and naturally also, Anna fell to George's care, while Sir Ralph went on by Laura's side. ' George,' said Anna suddenly, ' let us go and look at the fish - pond. 230 A Great Temptation. Uncle was telling us last night about feeding the carp in it in the old squire's time.' ' But the others have gone past it,' said George, ' Oh, we will soon pick them up ; and it will please uncle if we tell him we remembered about the carp.' 'Very well,' said George good- naturedly. So the cousins went down to the fish-pond, while Sir Ralph and Laura proceeded onwards towards the great belt of tall elms at the end of the grounds, amid which a colony of rooks were cawing and flitting from tree to tree. ' Well, what do you think of the place ? ' asked Sir Ralph, somewhat abruptly. Hare wood. 231 ' It is a fine old place, but it looks rather desolate, does it not? answered Laura. ' I like it somehow ; I think it will suit me.' ' But, Sir Ralph,' began Laura, nervously, ' is Ñ is it wise to come ? ' ' Why ? ' he replied coldly. This curt answer was so perfectly unexpected to Laura that her face flushed and then grew pale, and the two walked on in silence for the next few minutes. 1 There is plenty of game, I am told, and it is a good hunting country/ presently said Sir Ralph, 'and the old house will look better when it is inhabited. You and Mr Gifford must come and pay me a visit when I am settled.' 232 A Great Temptation. ' Thank you,' answered Laura, me- chanically. She had meant to ask him not to take this place ; not to throw himself in her way, but Sir Ralph so ignored her in the matter that she felt it was impossible to speak on the subject. ' By-the-bye,' presently said Sir Ralph, ' I was just going to tell you all about Patty May's letter when Miss Lindsay came in before luncheon. The girl is off her head! She entreated me ; she implored me with tears in her eyes, she wrote, to tell her how she had offended me. She said she must see me, and all sorts of insane folly.' 1 And did you write any answer ? ' ' Not a line ; I simply put the letter into another envelope, and sent Harewood. 233 it back to her, and that was the rudest thing I could do, wasn't it ? And she deserves everything she has got, and more.' ' It was very treacherous.' ' It was worse Ñ ' and then Sir Ralph muttered something between his teeth that sounded very like an oath, and turned away, and for the next few minutes preserved a glcomy silence, which Laura did not attempt to break. His very walk showed the restless impatience of his mind. He was thinking, ' She has spoilt two lives, this girl I was fool enough to believe ' ; and his heart was very bitter towards Miss Patty May. Presently, however, he roused him- self from his moody reverie. He be- 234 ^ Great Temptation. gan talking of Danvers Park and Mrs Vanhurst. ' There is a woman/ he said, ' with an excellent husband of her own, yet who wishes, and tries to make every man she sees in love with her ! It is, however, only a happy delusion of her own that any man is.' ' You are very severe on the poor little woman,' answered Laura, smiling. e Just severity. Ah, there is Mr Gifford and Miss Lindsay ; I wonder where they have been ? ' When they met, George and Anna Lindsay explained. They had been to the fish-pond, and declared it was well worth seeing. 'It's a charming place altogether, Sir Ralph,' said Anna. Harewood. 235 'It's a nice old-world place, I think,' he answered. c When I am settled I hope you will all come and pay me a visit, Mr Gifford.' 1 That would be delightful ! ' cried Anna Lindsay, instantly adopting the invitation. ' There's capital shooting about, so it would be a great treat to come,' said George, highly pleased at the prospect. ' Well, then, I shall hope to see you ere long. What about the necessary repairs, Mr Gifford ? ' The two men then began to talk on business matters, and Laura and Anna Lindsay walked on together among the old-fashioned flower-beds, now choked with weeds. The leaves came floating down from the tall 236 A Great Temptation. trees to their feet ; in the air was the indescribable taint and tint of the fading year. A strange feeling of melancholy crept over Laura's heart, and she scarcely listened to, or answered, Anna Lindsay's lively remarks. 4 He's evidently quite taken a fancy to the place,' said Anna. ' I wonder what his own place in Yorkshire is like?' And so on. Sir Ralph had, however, apparently 'quite taken a fancy to the place/ for when the gentlemen rejoined them they found that the arrangements for the purchase of Harewood were practically complete. 'And I wish you joy of your pur- chase, Sir Ralph,' said George cordi- ally. Harewood. 23J 1 Thanks,' replied Sir Ralph, without cordiality. After this they started on their return to Suffold, and when they reached that town Sir Ralph took leave of Laura and Miss Lindsay. He was going to return that evening to Danvers Park, but before doing so went with George to his office to sign some necessary papers. ' I've done a good day's work,' said George, with elation, when he returned home after parting with Sir Ralph. 'You have,' thought Anna Lindsay, with malignant pleasure. And just about ten days after this she felt sure that her suspicions regard- ing Sir Ralph Woodland and her cousin's wife were true. In the mean- time George and Sir Ralph had 238 A Great Temptation, written to each other twice about the repairs at Hare wood, and in each case George had shown Sir Ralph's letters to Laura and Anna Lindsay. They were, however, purely business ones, and he made no mention in them of any immediate intention of visiting Harewood. But one day, when Anna Lindsay came in from her afternoon walk, and was proceeding to the draw- ing-room for five-o'clock tea, just as she reached the room door she heard a man's voice speaking within, whose tone reminded her of Sir Ralph Woodland's. She stopped and listened, and did not go into the room, but went to the top of the kitchen stairs and called the waiting-maid to her. 'Who is that in the drawing-room?' she asked. Harewood. 239 ' Sir Ralph Woodland, Miss Lindsay,' answered the waiting-maid. 1 Is my uncle there ? ' she inquired. I No, miss, the old gentleman is out.' Anna Lindsay asked nothing more. She quietly returned to the drawing- room door, and from where she stood could distinctly hear what was said within the room. It was Sir Ralph Woodland who was speaking. I I cannot help it, ' he was saying ; ' I cannot keep away.' ' But is it wise, is it right ? ' an- swered Laura, with a tremulous ring in her voice. * It may not be, but, Laura, when I believed evil of you, when that lying girl had maligned you so shamefully, I tried to forget you, and I could not. 240 A Great Temptation. I came back to seek you then, and I have come back now.' ' I wish you had not bought that place, Sir Ralph ; I tried to tell you this the day we went to Hare wood.' ' I know you did, and I would not listen. I bought it to be near you, but I have no need to tell you this. 5 ' But Ñ but it is no use Ñ I can only see you very rarely.' ' But for the sake of these rare visits I mean to live there. Do not reproach me, for I cannot help myself.' Anna Lindsay listened no longer. She heard one of the servants coming up the kitchen stairs, and with swift, sure footsteps she hurried away. But she had heard enough. She knew now that the two in the drawing-room had met before they met at Lady Danvers', Harewood. . 241 as George Gifford supposed ; she knew that they had been lovers, she believed they were lovers now. Her red brown eyes sparkled, and she sank down on a chair in her own room, trembling and gasping with ex- citement. 'He has taken that place to be near her,' she told herself; 'he will persuade her to run away with him, and George Ñ George will come back to me.' END OF VOL. 11. CHAPTER I. STRUGGLES. Half an hour later Anna Lindsay heard Sir Ralph leave the house, and watched his tall figure as he walked across the Market Place. Then she went down to the drawing- room and found Laura still there. 'Sir Ralph Woodland has just been here,' said Laura, quietly enough, as Anna entered. VOL. III. A 2 A Great Temptation. 'Indeed?' replied Anna, trying to speak in her ordinary way. ' He has come down to see about the alterations at Harewood ; he is going to stay on a little while now for the shooting, he said.' ' He's a great sportsman, isn't he?' ' Yes, George said he is a splendid shot ; he has gone down now to George at the office.' That was all that was said. Anna sat drinking her tea, and wondering that the carpet did not open under Laura's feet and swallow her up for her iniquities. Laura sat silent and absorbed. These two women never had much to say to each other, and they seemed to have less than usual this afternoon. Then, about half-past six Struggles. 3 o'clock, George entered the room quite in a state of pleasurable excitement. ' So Sir Ralph called to see you this afternoon, Laura?' he said. ( He told me he had been here, and I've had him at the office for ever so long, and now he's gone on to Harewood. He's going to build stables there, and make no end of alterations, and he means to stay over the winter for the hunting. But I daresay he told you all about it ? ' 1 He told me he was going to stay there for a little while just now,' answered Laura. 'Yes, and he's had a lot of fine carved furniture sent down from town, and he's asked us all to go and stay with him ; he's really a very civil fellow.' Anna Lindsay did not speak ; she 4 A Great Temptation. sat with her eyes fixed first on the husband and then on the wife. The storm was brewing, she was thinking bitterly, and she longed for the thunder- clap to burst. ' I did not care for Hare wood very much,' said Laura, slowly. Do you, George ? ' 'It's a fine old place, I think, but it's something to have a neighbour who can offer you such shooting as Sir Ralph can ; certainly these rich fellows have it all their own way in this world.' Laura did not speak. She went up- stairs to dress for dinner, and she sighed uneasily as she did so. She wished now she had not gone to Danvers Park ; wished she had not met Sir Ralph Woodland again. No good can come of it, only harm, she told herself. When Struggles, 5 she had married George she had never expected to see him more. She believed he had changed to her, that he was weary of her, and now Ñ when it was too late Ñ she knew this was not so. ' He should not have bought Hare- wood/ she repeated to herself time after time. ' I must see him sometimes, and it will unsettle me ; only make me feel how weary everything is Ñ oh, how weary, how weary ! ' She had felt this ever since her return from Danvers Park. That brief visit seemed to have changed the world to her. The dull hours, the dull days at Red House, the narrow country gossip, and George Ñ poor George ! ? He is so good, so kind, and yet Ñ ' Laura knew she had never loved him, would never love him, but * the image of 6 A Great Temptation. one face ' had not haunted her when she married George as it haunted her now. ' And I owe him so much,' she thought restlessly, and this made her very gentle in her manner to George during the rest of the day. And on the following morn- ing she determined to try to occupy her mind. She made a great effort. She sat down determinedly to begin a new book, and forced her brain to dwell on the sorrows and temptations of others, while her own heart was racked meanwhile. The conflict told on her appearance, and the next time she saw Sir Ralph he inquired if she had been ill. ' No, I have been working hard,' she replied quietly ; working hard not to think of him ; to keep to the narrow groove that she had chosen for her- self. Struggles. 7 For she realised what every woman of her sensitive, highly-strung nature will surely realise Ñ that she had made a great and irreparable mistake in marry- ing a man she did not love. Poverty is bitter, struggles are hard, but not so bitter and hard as a daily effort to act an affection which does not live. George, in his kindly way, soon grew uneasy about her health, and begged her not to go on writing so hard. ' I must, I must ! ' she answered, with almost passionate impatience. ' But you have no need to do it, Laura. Surely you have everything you want ? ' Everything ! Her heart echoed this word with dreary emphasis. George meant she had a good roof over her head, a good husband to supply her 8 A Great Temptation. daily needs ; and what else did she require? He did not understand the heart hunger that was thinning the cheeks of his young wife ; he did not understand how all her life was weari- some to her with him. Then came a formal invitation to the whole party at Red House to spend a few days at Hare wood Hall. This invi- tation included old Mr Gifford and Miss Lindsay, and Mr Gifford was very much gratified by receiving it. 1 I think I should like to see the place again/ he said. ' I used to go every year in the old squire's time, and it's very kind of Sir Ralph Woodland to ask me.' But to the surprise of everyone at Red House, Laura expressed a wish not to ' I should rather not go, George. I Struggles, 9 am busy with my new book, and am not feeling very well, so you go, and leave me quietly at home.' ? It is nonsense, Laura/ answered George. ' Sir Ralph would, I am sure, be very much disappointed if you did not go, and the change will do you good ; and I'm only glad you'll be obliged to leave that stupid book behind.' Laura smiled a languid smile. 'How do you know it is stupid ? ' she said. ' Oh, it mayn't be stupid in one sense, but what I mean is that it is stupid of you going on working as if you were working for your daily bread.' ' I have promised to have it finished by a certain time.' 1 Oh, let the publisher wait ; I am sure at one time he was not over civil to you.' io A Great Temptation. I No,' said Laura, and her heart went back to that time, and to the dreary- struggle from which George had rescued her. ' I am ungrateful,' she told herself, and she went up and put her slim hand into Georges. I I owe so much to you,' she said. * Well, then, be a good little woman, and do as I wish. I want you to go to Harewood, Laura, and shall be really very much disappointed if you don't/ So she was overruled ; the invitation was accepted ; and Sir Ralph rode over to Suffold to make arrangements about the family from Red House going to Harewood. There was, of course, a considerable amount of gossip in the country town, where everyone talked of each other's affairs, concerning this visit of the Giffords to Sir Ralph Woodland's Struggles. 1 1 new property. Mrs Masterman said no one was good enough now for ' Mrs George ' but the county families, she pre- sumed, and that she had not gone to church for two Sundays running, though she did not explain how this fact was connected with the county families. But Laura really accepted Sir Ralph's invitation with a troubled, sinking heart. Life had become so complex and difficult to her ; her feelings and her duty being in continual conflict, and she dreaded a certain power of will which she knew Sir Ralph possessed over her mind. She dreaded this power, and yet could not resist it. It was at once sweet and bitter to her. She recognised its danger, yet made no determined effort to put it away. So in the early days of November the Giffords and Miss Lindsay went to pay 12 A Great Temptation. their visit to Harewood Hall. Sir Ralph had invited Sir Richard and Lady Danvers to meet them, but Lady Danvers was laid up with a severe cold, and could not go, after having accepted the invitation. When Laura heard this she wished to defer their visit also, but neither Sir Ralph nor George Gifford would hear of this. Sir Ralph, indeed, was secretly pleased ; it was Laura he wished to have under his roof, and not Lady Danvers. He welcomed his guests on their arrival with great courtesy, and presently showed them the improvements he had made in the house and grounds. Harewood was, indeed, a different place to what it had been when they had last seen it. The gardens and grounds were trim, and the house furnished with artistic taste. Struggles. 1 3 ' I thought you would like this cabinet, Anna Lindsay overheard him say in a low- tone to Laura, as he was pointing out one of his new purchases. But he apparently paid her no particular attention ; Laura was conscious that his eyes followed her if his feet did not. These two seemed to see each other with some inner sense. Between them was that strange subtle link which it is impossible rightly to de- scribe in words. Though apart, their souls held secret commune, and Sir Ralph understood the very struggle that was going on in Laura's heart. ' She loves me,' he told himself, ' but she thinks herself bound to the man who married her in her poverty, and whom she married because he could give, her daily bread. But can such a bond last ; last when it is opposed to the strong 14 A Great Temptation. natural emotion she feels to me ? It cannot, it shall not, for I love her too dearly to renounce her now.' Yet he felt some remorse when he thought of George Gifford. He did not like George Gifford's perfect trust in his young wife. He had been an honourable man all his life, and he knew that he was now acting dishonourably. But he self- argued why should two lives be spoiled ; why should both he and Laura sacrifice their whole happiness for the sake of a man that neither of them cared for ? * If she had loved him I would have given it up ; but she does not love him ; her life with him is a misery to her, and it must end.' This had become his settled purpose. Yet no one at Harewood ever suspected it for a moment but Anna Lindsay. And Struggles. 1 5 even her shrewd red-brown eyes would have been deceived if she had not over- heard what he said in the drawing-room at Red House. As it was she watched and waited, but made no sign that she did so. There were two other guests at Hare- wood, both sporting men, therefore Sir Ralph naturally took Laura in to dinner on the first day of her arrival, as she was the only married woman present. He felt her hand tremble on his arm as he led her downstairs, and he pressed it a little closer to his side. That was all. No word was spoken between them during dinner that George might not have heard Ñ no word during the whole evening. The next morning all the men, except old Mr Gifford, were early afield ; Sir Ralph requesting Laura to act as hostess 1 6 A Great Temptation, during his absence, sending his coach- man for her orders. She and Mr Gilford and Anna Lindsay therefore took a drive in the morning, and after lunch, as the afternoon was fine, she went out for a walk in the grounds alone. She asked Anna Lindsay to go with her, but Anna declined. She would stay and keep her uncle company, she said, and Laura felt her absence a relief. Beneath the tall and now nearly leaf- less elms at the foot of the garden, as the sun was sinking behind a bank of heavy clouds, Laura paced nearly half an hour thinking of many things, but mostly of the strange destiny which had placed her in the position in which she found herself. It did not surprise her, presently, to see Sir Ralph advancing Struggles. 1 7 towards her. He had said he would return early, and, having heard from Anna Lindsay that she was in the grounds, he had gone out to seek her. ' Are you weaving a new plot ? ' he said, with a smile, as he met her. 4 No,' answered Laura, with a smile also, though it was a faint and shadowy one. ' How does a plot grow ? ' continued Sir Ralph ; ' for I suppose it does not spring into life all at once.' ' No ; at least mine do not. They grow as our feelings grow, I think, from small beginnings.' 'Until they grow too big for us, and we must tell them somehow. Is that it?' ' Something like it.' VOL. III. B 1 8 A Great Temptation. ' Do you believe in fate Ñ in destiny ? ' Laura shook her head. ' I think I do. I think it is in vain to struggle against it.' ' We do not make our own fate, certainly/ said Laura, in a low tone. 1 No ; we are driven into a hole, and must get out of it as best we can.' 'There may be no way out.' ' A strong will can force one.' ' Not always. There are some things that cannot be undone.' ' The way may be hard, and the path rough, but I believe there is still a way. Anything is better than a life of unending struggle and regret.' Laura sighed wearily. ' You know what I mean,' went on Sir Ralph, with a passionate ring in his deep voice. 'We have both made a Struggles. 1 9 mistake Ñ a terrible mistake Ñ but we must get out of it as best we can.' ' Why do you speak thus ? ' answered Laura, and she looked at him half re- proachfully, half sadly. 'You know I will not, must not, listen. You only make my life harder Ñ you who should help me ; and I need help, I need help indeed ! ' Tears rushed into her eyes as she spoke, and her lips quivered, and Sir Ralph felt a keen pang of self-reproach as he saw this. ' Forgive me ! ' he said ; ' but it is so difficult not to speak of what one feels so much.' Laura made no answer. She turned away her head, and for a few moments Sir Ralph walked on in silence by her side. The sun sank beneath the bank 20 A Great Temptation. of clouds ; the wind began to stir the brown branches of the elms ; the air grew chill, and Laura slightly shivered. 'It is growing cold,' said Sir Ralph ; 'perhaps you had best go in- doors.' Before she could reply, they both saw George Gifford advancing towards them, who met them with a pleasant smile. He thought no more, indeed, of meeting Laura with Sir Ralph than if he had met her with Anna Lindsay. 1 I came out to meet you,' he said, looking at Laura, ' for Anna told me you were in the grounds somewhere ; but I did not know you had Sir Ralph for an escort,' he added, with a good-natured glance at his host. ' Yes, I met Mrs Gifford a few minutes ago, said Sir Ralph. ' I was telling her Struggles. 2 1 I think it is getting rather cold for her to be out.'* 1 It is chilly,' said George, pulling the collar of his overcoat up. c And you look rather pale, too, Laura. Take my arm, little woman, you had better go in.' He took her hand as he spoke with familiar affection, and drew it through his arm, and Sir Ralph's dark face paled as he saw the simple action. ' I think I will leave you now,' he said a moment later. ' I want to go round by the stables.' And as he spoke he raised his cap and turned away, with an angry jealous pang burning in his heart. CHAPTER II. A SUDDEN BLOW. It had been fixed that the Giffords were to stay three days at Hare wood, but Sir Ralph urged them to remain longer. George, however, pleaded his business engagements. * A hard-working lawyer must think of his clients, Sir Ralph/ he said, smiling. 1 1 am bound to be back at the office by Friday.' 1 But go into Suffold on Friday, and then return here,' replied Sir Ralph, 'and Mrs Gifford and Miss Lindsay, of course, will remain here Ñ and your father.' 22 A Sudden Blow. 23 George looked at Laura inquiringly. ' Oh, no, no, George/ she said hastily ; ' we must all go on Friday.' 1 1 suppose that settles it,' answered George. ' When you are a married man, Sir Ralph, the first thing you'll have to learn is obedience. ! ' And George laughed. But Sir Ralph visibly winced. ' He gives you a bad character, you see,' he said, looking at Laura, who blushed beneath his gaze. Then George turned away and be- gan talking to Anna Lindsay ; and Sir Ralph said in a low and some- what bitter tone to Laura, Ñ ' You seem in a great hurry to leave my house.' 'It is better I should go,' she an- swered, also speaking in a low voice. 24 A Great Temptation. ' I see no difference it can make.' Laura did not speak, but she felt it did make a difference. Seeing Sir Ralph daily was too great a strain on her own powers of endur- ance, when George also was by her side. She had noticed the jealous look on Sir Ralph's face the evening before, when George had taken her hand in his and drawn it through his arm. She had seen Sir Ralph's lips wince and quiver when George approached her, and she was con- scious that she preferred George not to be near her in Sir Ralph's presence. ' I am better away/ she told her- self, and so she meant to go. But her leaving with George angered Sir Ralph greatly. A Sudden Blow. 25 1 Have I annoyed you in any way ? ' he presently asked. ' No, no, it is not that, but Ñ ' ' But what ? ' asked Sir Ralph, bend- ing his head a little nearer. ' I must go back to my work.' ' You have no necessity for work- ing now.' ' Yes, I have.' 4 You mean it keeps you from think- ing ? You see I can read your thoughts Ñ but in spite of work you will think, you must think.' ' I must try not to do so.' 1 If you succeed will you give me a lesson in the art? Do you think,' he went on bitterly, * I would not also forget it all if I could ? Do you think it makes me any happier to remember the old days Ñ to see you again, in 26 A Great Temptation. memory, looking in my face as you used to look then ? ' ' Oh, hush! hush, Sir Ralph!' ' You madden me by your indiffer- ence, or feigned indifference. You grudge me a smile, and yet I know, I feelÑ' ' Sir Ralph, do you see Miss Lindsay looking at us ? For my sake do not speak, do not look as you are doing now,' 1 1 am a bad actor, I am afraid. Yes, I see Miss Lindsay's red-brown eyes have a curious flicker in them. I dislike that woman, and yet I have no reason.' 'She is not lovable, certainly.' ' Few women are lovable, to my mind. What is it that makes the charm, I wonder ? Is it that the mind attunes A Sudden Blow. ij itself to ours ? It is something be- yond mere beauty, though beauty has doubtless great power. But a man wants more than that to fill the com- plex nature of his heart.' Laura sighed uneasily. 1 Do you remember the first time I spoke to you in the picture gallery?' 'Yes/ ' And do you remember when we went, long after, to another picture gallery, and we sat and talked? Laura, I loved you then Ñ as I love you now.' He almost whispered the last words, but Laura heard them. At the other end of the room George and Anna Lindsay were still talking, and George noticed at this moment Sir Ralph's earnest expression and attitude. ' Sir Ralph is talking in a wonder- 28 A Great Temptation. fully impressive way to Laura,' he said ; ' I wonder what it's all about ? ' ' Perhaps he's trying to persuade her to stay on/ suggested Anna. 1 Very likely ; let us go and ask them ? ' So George went up to his wife, and said pleasantly to her, Ñ ' I am sure Sir Ralph is trying to per- suade you to do something, Laura; what is it?' Laura's faced crimsoned and then paled. ' I was trying to persuade her to stay over the meet on Tuesday,' said Sir Ralph. 'Well, won't you stay, Laura?' asked George. 'No, I have some work to do, and I must do it,' answered Laura, and then A Sudden Blow. 29 she turned away. To stay any longer at Harewood Hall she felt was im- possible. So the next day Ñ Friday Ñ the family party returned to Red House, and the old weary life began again for Laura. Her mind was out of tune ; in that state when trifles cease to interest and amuse, and when there seems no pleasure under the sun. She sat down to her work in listless fashion ; she wrote a few lines, and her thoughts wandered away. Again she heard that low, pleading voice, Ñ ' Laura, I loved you then Ñ as I love you now.' George came in cheerful and cheery ; asked what she had ordered for dinner Ñ a subject on which he had consider- able interest. Laura had forgotten the dinner ! Still, there was plenty of time, SO A Great Temptation. as it was only yet early morning, but George did not look over well pleased. 'You think of nothing but that con- founded book, I believe,' he said. ' If you find housekeeping such a trouble you'd best let Anna order the dinners as she used to do before.' 'Very well,' answered Laura coldly, and she again lifted up her pen. But George did not mean nor wish to offend her, and after looking at her for a mo- ment or two he laid his hand kindly on her shoulder. ' I didn't mean that, you know, little woman,' he said, ' but I am vexed to see you always poring over your writing- table, instead of bustling about the house, which would be far better for you. You don't look over strong, and I wish you would take more exercise. A Sudden Blow. 3 1 If you like, I will come home early from the office to-day and take you for a walk. ' Not to-day, thank you, George/ an- swered Laura gently, ' I don't feel very well to-day.' ' I am sorry for that, dear,' and George bent down and kissed her forehead, or rather the curls on her forehead. * Well, good-bye now, and take care of yourself.' And he turned and went away, and Laura sighed deeply after he was gone. Then she roused herself and went to see after that important affair the dinner ! And it is an important affair, no doubt, to a hard-working man like George Gifford. But, oh, the difference of a loving wife, ordering little luxuries for her husband, thinking of what he would like best, of his tastes, his fancies, and an unloving 32 A Great Temptation. wife considering the same duty. Laura wished many a time that she had let Anna Lindsay go on ordering the dinners and keeping the keys. The small responsi- bilities worried her ; they disturbed her ideas ; they broke into the thread of her plot. Still it had to be done, and she did it. Then after lunch she tried writing again. But struggle against it as we will, some- thing of the mood that we are in affects our writings. Laura felt weary and de- pressed, and she wrote without spirit. But about four o'clock the house door bell rang, and she heard a man's footstep crossing the hall. It was Sir Ralph Woodland. She had been writing in the small inner drawing- room which she always used, and she rose from her writing-table to receive him. A Sudden Blow. $3 1 I am interrupting you,' he said gravely, as he held out his hand. 1 You are interrupting nothing worth reading/ answered Laura, with a smile ; ' I can't get on somehow with my work to-day.' ' Something is disturbing your mind ? ' ' I suppose so ; at least I can't write.' ' I told you that you could not help thinking in spite of yourself.' 'And I said I should try, and I mean to try Ñ not to think.' 1 It is no use, Laura/ and Sir Ralph went a step nearer, and laid his hand heavily on her writing-table; 'neither of us can forget the past. Why you refused me then I cannot conceive, but I know that past was dear to you, as it was to me.' 'We must both forget it,' said Laura, vol. in. c 34 A Great Temptation, in a low tone, casting down her eyes. ' We neither of us can. Why prolong a useless struggle ? Laura, do you know why I came to-day ? ' Laura slightly shook her head. ' I came to ask you to link your fate with mine ; to break loose from ties that must be, that are repugnant to every feeling of your heart/ ' You know that I cannot do this.' ' You must ; you shall ! ' cried Sir Ralph, with a sort of imperious impatience. ? Do I not see that you are miserable ? What is the use of going on living such a life as yours is now? Leave Mr Gifford, and as soon as it is possible we shall be married.' 1 It is quite impossible ! ' said Laura, rising, and beginning to pace the room A Sudden Blow. 35 in the greatest distress. ' Speak of this no more, Sir Ralph Ñ you Ñ you add to my misery.' He followed her. He took her re- luctant hand ; he bent down and kissed it. 4 Forgive me if I pain you,' he said, 1 but I do it because I know the struggle in your heart. You think yourself bound to Mr Gifford, whom you do not love ? ' 1 1 am bound to him,' said Laura, with trembling lips. ' Not as you are bound to me ! Love binds you to me with truer bonds than a few words from a parson's lips, which can have no meaning unless they be true. In your case they never were true. You took a false oath, and are leading a false life/ ' You are cruel ! cruel ! ' ' I seem so, but I am not. If I believed 36 A Great Temptation. you were happy I would go away ; go out of your life, and see you no more. I would not think of myself, hard and bitter though the wrench would be. But I know you are not happy, that here you never can be happy ! With me Ñ ' 4 Sir Ralph, hush, hush ! ' cried Laura, in quick alarm, and she grasped his arm with her trembling fingers. ' That is my husband opening the door with his key Ñ he is coming here.' Sir Ralph drew back with sudden calm- ness and stateliness, and when a few mo- ments later George Gifford walked into the room he was standing with an air of perfect composure at a little distance from Laura's writing-table. 'Ah, Sir Ralph,' said George, advanc- ing with extended hand, ' so you are here ? And how are you ? ' A Stidden Blow. ?>7 The two men shook hands, and ex- changed a few words, and then Sir Ralph explained the seeming object of his visit. ? I came to try and persuade Mrs Gifford again to come to the meet on Tuesday,' he said. ' It is to be not more than a quarter of a mile from the house at Harewood.' 6 Well, and are you going, Laura ? ' asked George, looking at his wife, who was very pale. 1 No, George,' I cannot go/ she an- swered in a faltering voice. It struck George that she was looking very ill, though he never for a moment suspected that Sir Ralph's visit had any- thing to do with it. 'I came home early/ he went on, 'to see if you had changed your mind, and would go out for a walk, but you do look 38 A Great Temptation. very seedy. But, Sir Ralph, you will stay and dine with us, won't you ? ' But Sir Ralph declined. He remained a few minutes longer, and then he took his leave and went straight to the hotel where he had put up his horse. He also was very pale, and he bit his lips under his moustache more than once as he rode slowly homewards, and when he arrived at Harewood he went to his own room and began pacing the floor with restless footsteps. ' I am a bad man, I suppose/ he was thinking, ' to urge her to do against her will what she, no doubt, believes to be a sin. But to my mind it is no sin ; it is a sin for a woman to marry a man she does not love ; but Laura loves me, and she shall never regret that love. I shall be good to her always Ñ poor girl, A Sudden Blow, 39 poor girl ! What hard fate was it that parted us, when our love would have had no sting, no remorse, to her tender heart? But she will get over this Ñ in her love she will forget it Ñ I must teach her to forget it' He went to the window of the room as he spoke, and stood looking moodily at the fast-darkening sky. Many pro- blems were passing through his mind ; great questions to which he had no guide. Sir Ralph Woodland had drifted away from the teachings of his youth, and in his manhood held no creed that interfered with his own will. He loved Laura, and she loved him, and he told himself Ñ or tried to tell himself Ñ that this was a sufficient reason to defy all laws. Laura, in the meantime, was trying to 40 A Great Temptation. seem at ease and talk as usual to George, while in her heart a conflict was going on almost too great for her to endure. Every day her life was becoming more ^trained, and its ordinary routine harder to bear. A long Sunday followed this momentous meeting with Sir Ralph, and then a long Monday and Tuesday. But on Wednesday a blow struck her which placed a sure weapon in the hand of her enemy, Anna Lindsay, which she was not slow to use. The two were sitting together in the morning, after George had gone to his office, and the Suffold Morning Post was lying unopened on the table beside them. Laura was puzzling over some household accounts, which she could not quite make exact, when Anna took up the news- paper and began carelessly scanning A Sudden Blow. 41 its columns. Suddenly she gave an ex- clamation. ' Good gracious ! What a terrible thing ! ' she cried. ' What is the matter ! ' asked Laura, looking up from her account book. 'A dreadful accident happened yester- day to Sir Ralph Woodland on the hunting field. He was thrown, and his horse rolled over him. They fear Ñ ' But here Anna stopped, for with a sort of cry Laura sprang to her feet. ' What ! ' she gasped out, ' what ! ' 'They fear he is fatally injured,' con- tinued Anna, with her red-brown eyes fixed on the white, despairing face before her. Laura asked nothing more. A deadly faintness crept over her; the room seemed to whirl around her, and with a faint 42 A Great Temptation. moan she fell senseless on the floor at Anna Lindsay's feet. For a moment or two Anna thought the shock had killed her. She rang the bell hastily ; she tried to raise Laura's head. Then a servant ran in. ' Oh, Miss Lindsay, what is the matter?' said this woman, in dismay, when she saw her mistress's prostrate form and white, rigid face. 4 She has fainted ; she is in a fit,' an- swered Anna. ' Get some water and rub her hands.' The servant made haste to obey. Then the other servants came in, and Laura was lifted on a couch. But still she lay motionless, and finally Miss Lindsay sent for the doctor, and to the office for George. There was triumph in her heart as she did this. George A Sudden Blow. 43 should know of the false wife he had cherished, she told herself, and she eagerly awaited his coming. He came in great haste, before the doctor arrived, and Anna met him in the hall. 'What is this? What is the matter with Laura ? ' he asked breathlessly. 'Come in here, George,' answered Anna, and she pulled him by the hand into the dining-room, the door of which was standing open. George turned quite pale as she did so, and Anna saw with jealous eyes this sign of emotion. 6 She is not Ñ ? ' he gasped out with trembling lips. ' I read out the account of Sir Ralph Woodland's accident yesterday on the hunting field,' she hissed forth, 'and 44 A Great Temptation. when she heard it she fainted at once dead away. I've sent for the doctor, and I sent for you.' 1 What nonsense ! Where is she ? ' said George quickly. 1 She is in the breakfast-room. I thought I had better tell you the cause of her illness,' answered Anna, ' when no one else was near.' CHAPTER III. sir Ralph's visitor. George Gifford made no answer to his cousin's insinuations. He broke hastily away from her and went into the break- fast-room, and, lying on a couch, with the servants standing around her, he found his wife. Laura was deadly pale, but a faint twitching and contraction of her face showed some return to consciousness. * She's coming round, sir,' said the cook, who was bathing Laura's hands with cold water, now addressing her master. 45 46 A Great Tejnptation. George made a step nearer, and stood looking at his wife with a strange feeling in his heart. But at this moment the doctor hurried into the room, and, shaking hands with George as he passed him, at once commenced to endeavour to revive Laura. ' Perhaps I had better go into another room,' said George slowly, and he left the room as he spoke, and in the hall he met Anna Lindsay. 1 How is she now ? ' asked Anna, eagerly. ' She looks very ill/ answered George coldly, and then he went into the dining- room and shut the door behind him, and sat down to think. ' Could there be any truth in this story of Anna's?' he was asking himself. He also had seen the account of Sir Ralph's Sir Ralph's Visitor, 47 accident in the newspapers at the office, and it was certainly extraordinary that it should have such an effect on Laura if Anna's words were true. ' But she was always jealous of Laura/ George also reflected, and then he began to look back on what had occurred during the last few weeks. Certainly Laura's spirits had not been good lately, and she had been looking ill. But he had never noticed anything in Sir Ralph's manner to her that was at all out of the common. He was a sensible man, but not a quick or observant one, and he was very matter- of-fact. To his mind, a man paying atten- tion to a woman meant to be constantly at her side. This certainly Sir Ralph had not been. ' It is just some folly of Anna's,' he decided, but all the same he felt disturbed. 48 A Great Temptation. Anna's evil words had not fallen on un- heeding ears. Presently the doctor rapped at the door and entered the room, followed by Anna. ' I should like a word with you, Mr Gifford,' said Dr Wallace, who was a little, bright-faced, keen-eyed, middle-aged man. * Has Mrs Gifford had any sudden shock lately likely to bring on this at- tack?' ' Not that I know of,' answered George, a little hoarsely. Anna Lindsay said nothing. She was standing behind the doctor, and George did not care to look at her face. 1 She is in an exceedingly low state of health,' continued Dr Wallace ; ' and the action of her heart is weak, and any sudden news or anxiety would inevitably cause faintness, and she must be guarded against Sir Ralph's Visitor. 49 all excitement. I will send her some medicine in a quarter of an hour, and will look in again during the evening. She must go to bed at once, and, above every- thing, be kept perfectly quiet. * Very well, doctor,' said George Gifford slowly. And then the little doctor bustled away, and after he was gone for a moment the cousins looked in each other's eyes. In Anna's were written, ' I told you so,' as plainly as if she had spoken the words ; in George's uneasiness and doubt. But neither spoke on the subject nearest their hearts. George left the room and went into the breakfast-room, where Laura was now sitting in an easy-chair, supported by cushions. She was still extremely pale, and one of the maids was holding a bottle of salts near her face. She seemed to see George as he entered, and there was a VOL. III. d 5<d A Great Temptation. strange, piteous look in her eyes, like one in extreme bodily or mental pain. ' Are you better, Laura ? ' said George ; but his voice was changed from its usual frank affectionateness. She opened her palid lips to answer him, but no word came forth. ' The doctor says you must go to bed at once/ continued George, ' so cook and I will help you upstairs Ñ come, Laura.' He raised her up by her arm as he spoke, and drew it through his own, and the cook supported her on the other side. All strength seemed suddenly to have gone from Laura's limbs. She tottered, she trembled even with the aid of George's stalwart arm, and they had some difficulty in getting her upstairs. There George left her with the women ; he went back to his office, he sat down Sir Ralph's Visitor. 5 1 to his desk, but still he was thinking of Anna Lindsay's words. And Laura lay still with a great burn- ing pain in her heart, and an overwhelm- ing sense of wretchedness and misery. Ralph Woodland dying Ñ dying, and she could not touch his hand ! Anna Lindsay, with evil intent, had added the words, ' they fear fatally,' so Laura was as one without hope. She stared at the pattern of the paper on the walls ; she heard the clock tick even with her dulled ears ; the voices of those around her sounded as in a dream. ' Was his soul passing now ? ' she was thinking. ' Would he come, would he come one moment be- fore he went?' The doctor sent her a composing draught, which mercifully clouded her brain, and so the miserable hours passed 52 A Great Temptation. on at length in semi-unconsciousness. But he was uneasy about her condition, and when he came in the evening, again impressed on George the extreme neces- sity of quietness. ' If there is anything preying on her mind the cause should, if possible, be re- moved,' he said. And what could George answer? He knew of nothing preying on her mind, except what Anna Lindsay had insinuated. But Laura did not rally, and he became extremely uneasy. At night she became so low that the doctor considered it his duty to sit up with her for some hours, and advised that a nurse should be sent for. 4 I have to go to Harewood early in the morning, or I should not leave even now, Mrs Gifford,' he said, as he rose to Sir Ralph's Visitor. 53 go. ' But you will have heard of Sir Ralph Woodland's accident ? ' He was bending over her as he said this, with her hand in his, and something ill the start, in the sudden vibration of her form gave a key to his acute mind as to the cause of Laura's illness. ' He is going on very well,' he added ; ' he got a bad tumble, and a broken arm, but he'll pull through all right.' Laura gave a gasp, and then a strange hysterical laugh broke from her quiver- ing lips. The relief was so sharp, so sudden, that her brain seem to reel under the shock. The doctor went on speak- ing soothingly to give her time to re- cover herself. ' He's a splendid constitution,' he said, ' hard as iron, and makes a capital patient. I was sent for as "soon as the accident 54 A Great Temptation. occurred on Tuesday morning, but Sir Ralph was as cool as if nothing had happened.' ' Will Ñ will Ñ he live ? ' came faltering from Laura's pale lips, while her dark eyes were fixed beseechingly on the doctor's face. They were the first words Laura had spoken since she had fainted, and the doctor thought that he now understood the case. 4 Live ? ' he answered. ' To be sure he'll live. He's a fine plucky fellow, and will soon be on his feet again.' He had heard the gossip we may be sure about the Giffords' visit to Hare- wood, and about Sir Ralph's calls at Red House. He had scarcely listened to it, but now he was interested. ' So this poor young woman has fallen in love, I suppose,' he was thinking as he Sir Ralph 's Visitor, 55 stood a few moments longer by Laura's bedside. A change had come over her ap- pearance ; her dulled eyes had brightened, a flush had risen to her white cheeks. ' Could you give me something to make me sleep ? ' presently said Laura, in a low voice, c my head feels so strange.' The doctor gave her another dose of the composing draught, and then left her for the night. George came out of the dining- room as he was crossing the hall to leave the house. 1 How does she seem now ? ' he asked anxiously. ' I think she is a little better, but she is feverish and low. No one must speak to her to-night, Mr Gifford. I have given her a composing draught, and I hope she will sleep.' ' Very well,' said George, and then the 56 A Great Temptation. doctor shook hands with him and went away. ' Poor fellow,' he thought, as he wended his way to his own home, where an affectionate, bright-faced little wife was anxiously waiting his arrival. But Laura did not sleep for many hours. An ineffable sense of joy and relief flooded her whole being. She tossed from side to side, strange fancies came whirling into her brain, and an intense restlessness took possession of her. Not until the grey winter dawn did she sink into a heavy slumber, and when she awoke she was still weary, and her limbs racked with pain. During the next few days she had a sharp attack of nervous fever, and the doctor noted the eager anxious look in her dark eyes whenever he entered the room. Sir Ralph's Visitor. 57 * My patient at Harewood is going on very well,' he would say in answer to the unspoken question, and once he ventured to speak of her to Sir Ralph Woodland. 1 That pretty wife of Mr George Gif- ford's is ill,' he said. * 111 ? ' repeated Sir Ralph sharply. * Yes, she fainted last Wednesday morn- ing, and I was sent for, and has been very low and feverish ever since,' answered the doctor. After this Sir Ralph used to ask each day how Mrs Gifford was going on. His own injuries, though severe, were doing well, but he was impatient and eager to be up again. But about a week after his accident he was startled one afternoon by his servant coming into his bedroom and telling him that a lady wished to see him. 58 A Great Temptation. The blood rushed to Sir Ralph's dark and somewhat haggard face at this an- nouncement, and a wild hope swept through his breast. 1 A lady ? ' he repeated. ' What is she like?' { I cannot say, Sir Ralph,' answered his servant. c She's got one of those thick black veils on, and I could not see her face.' * Show her up,' said Sir Ralph. He never doubted it was Laura. He had thought of her so constantly since his accident, so longed to see her that he believed that she had come to him, and his heart beat and throbbed, and his strong hands trembled. A moment or two later a rap came to his room door, and his servant entered. ' The lady, sir,' he said, and then there Sir Ralph's Visitor. 59 followed him into the room, a tall, slender woman's form, dressed in a long black cloak, while her face was thickly veiled. But in an instant, with the intuition of love, Sir Ralph saw it was not Laura. Something in the walk, though his visitor was graceful, lacked a certain dignity which was one of Laura's characteristics. The servant discreetly left the room, clos- ing the door behind him, but also dis- creetly lingered in the corridor outside. Then the lady sprang forward and rushed to Sir Ralph's bedside. 'Oh, Sir Ralph,' she cried, 'this is terrible ! What I have suffered since I heard of your dreadful accident ! ' Sir Ralph started violently in bed. It was the voice of Patty May that sounded in his ears. ' And why have you treated me so ? ' 60 A Great Temptation. continued Patty, removing her veil with some caution, and showing her wealth of golden hair. * What have I done that you should return my letter ? That Ñ that you should seem to wish our friendship to end?' ' Why are you here ? This is no place for you ! ' answered Sir Ralph sternly, and he pulled the hand away from her which Patty had caught, and deliberately buried it in the bedclothes. 'Why/ said Patty, with a little sob, 1 because I could not bear to think of you suffering alone, Sir Ralph. Ralph, what have I done that you should turn away from me ? ' Upon this Patty fell down on her knees by the bedside, and if ever a man felt him- self in a predicament, Sir Ralph certainly did at this moment. Sir Ralph's Visitor. 61 'This is absurd/ he said, trying to move himself further from the side of the bed by which Patty knelt. But his broken arm in splints, and his bruises and ban- dages made this most difficult, almost impossible. There he lay at Patty's mercy, as it were, and he felt furious at the situation in which he found himself. ' What have I done ? ' repeated Patty in a voice broken by sobs. She was really crying, for she had truly liked Sir Ralph, but her tears did not add to his ami- ability. ' You had better go at once, Miss May ; you are only making us both ridiculous,' he remarked angrily. c Ridiculous,' repeated the weeping Patty, ' when you are so ill, and I am so unhappy ? Why are you so hard and cruel ? Only tell me what I have done ? ' 62 A Great Temptation. Sir Ralph was silent for a moment, and then he said with great bitterness, Ñ ' By the untruths you told me, you parted me from the woman I loved ; the woman I wished to make my wife.' * If you mean that horrid Miss Ingram/ said Patty, with an instantaneous change in her voice and manner, and lifting her head, ' I told you nothing but the truth. A young man did come to see her, and she did go about with him.' ' Yes, her family lawyer Ñ whom she married.' ' I heard she was married,' answered Patty, in a relieved tone. ' Well, there was no harm done then ? I suppose she was engaged to him then ? ' 1 No harm done,' repeated Sir Ralph savagely. ' Yes, there was harm done ; worse than harm.' Sir Ralph's Visitor. 63 He forgot all about the absurdity of the situation, forgot a pretty girl was kneeling by his bedside, and that he could not get away. He only remembered that Patty had parted him from Laura ; that she had brought infinite pain, sorrow and remorse to both their lives. 6 It was worse than murder,' he went on passionately, his dark face flushing, and his eyes glowing. ' You murdered the reputation of an innocent girl. You wrote both the anonymous letters that you pre- tended to be so shocked at. You know you did, and you lied when you told me Miss Ingram had left her rooms with a young man. The whole thing was a hideous falsehood and invention, and now, when you know the truth, I wish Ñ I request you to go away.' Patty rose to her feet pale with passion. 64 A Great Temptation. 1 You are a brute to speak to a woman so/ she said. c I wish you were dead. I could strike you dead ! ' 'You had much better go away,' an- swered Sir Ralph coolly. Then he rang a hand bell which lay near him, and his servant appeared at the door of the room the next moment. ' Jameson, show this lady out/ he said. Then Patty turned on him like a fury. ' If ever I can do you any harm/ she said, vindictively raising her hand as if she would strike him, ' I will ! I will live to make you pay for the insults you have heaped on my head this day ! ' 'You have done me all the harm you can do/ answered Sir Ralph. ' Good- morning/ And without another word Patty went away. CHAPTER IV. A GREAT TEMPTATION. After Patty May had quitted Sir Ralph's room with hasty and irregular footsteps, a sudden change of mood came over her, and she burst into loud and hysterical sobs. ' Oh ! miss, be quiet, for goodness' sake/ said Jameson, who was Sir Ralph's valet, in a half - frightened whisper ; ' all the people in the house will hear you, and the doctor's orders are that Sir Ralph has to be kept quite quiet.' 1 1 don't care ! ' sobbed Patty. * He's treated me shamefully Ñ most shamefully ! ' VOL. III. E 66 A Great Temptation. Patty screamed this out at the top of her voice ; she was going down the front staircase at the time ; her yellow hair dishevelled, her eyes swollen and stained with tears. Altogether a most distressful looking woman, when, to Jameson's con- sternation, he saw the butler in the very act of opening the front door of the house, and perceived that Mr George Gifford from Suffold was standing outside. ' Oh ! miss, please be quiet ! ' he prayed hopelessly. But Patty took no notice of his en- treaties. She strode recklessly on, scarcely glancing at the butler or the gentleman on the entrance steps, who were both naturally astonished at such an apparition in the house of a sick man. But Patty passed them without a word, followed by the trembling Jameson, who beckoned to A Great Temptation. 67 the driver of a cab, who was seated on his box a few yards off. The man drove up at once, and Jameson hastily opened the carriage door and handed the weeping Patty in. ' Where shall I say to, miss ? ' inquired Jameson. ' The railway station at Uphill/ answered Patty in a choked voice, naming the station nearest Harewood. The cab-driver nodded, and drove away, and Jameson turned round and slowly as- cended the steps leading to the house on which George Gifford and the butler were still standing. * The lady seems in great distress, Jame- son ? ' said George Gifford, speaking to the valet, who grinned uncomfortably at his master's visitor. George Gifford smiled, and so did the 68 A Great Temptation. butler, but none of the three men pursued the subject. ' Then Sir Ralph is really going on all right?' said George Gifford, addressing the butler, who, remembering the hand- some gratuity George had slipped into his hand on leaving Hare wood, was naturally inclined to be very civil. ' Yes, Mr Gifford, as well as he possibly could,' answered the butler. ' It was an uncommon bad accident, sir, but Sir Ralph is pulling himself together again, and the doctor hopes he will be up in no time. But won't you walk in, Mr Gifford ? Per- haps Sir Ralph would see you.' ' No, not to-day, thank you,' said George, and again he smiled. ' Just tell him that I called to inquire how he is going on, and that I am extremely pleased to hear such good accounts.' A Great Temptation. 69 Then another little friendly transaction took place, and half- a- crown was trans- ferred from George's pocket to the butler's, and George walked away with a somewhat grim smile on his face, thinking of Sir Ralph's visitor. It was only human nature to tell the little episode at home. When George reached Red House he went upstairs to inquire how Laura was feeling, and when he entered the nurse left the room. The fever had passed away, but she was very low and weak, and the expression of her face was very sad, and her dark eyes full of mournfulness. She smiled gently as George approached the couch on which she was lying, and held out a very thin, white hand, for she had not seen him before during the day. 6 Good afternoon, George,' she said. jo A Great Temptation. 'Well, how are you feeling to-day, Laura? Come, you look a little better, and I hope we will soon have you down- stairs,' answered George, taking her hand. Again Laura smiled that gentle, shadowy smile. ' Thank you, George,' she said. ' I've been to Hare wood to inquire after Sir Ralph,' continued George, 'and he's going on all right, too. But a very funny thing happened, Laura, when I was there.' ' What was that ? ' asked Laura, with her eyes fixed on her husband's face. 'Well, just as I arrived there, a good- looking, weeping damsel, evidently in great distress, was going away. Jameson the valet was escorting her, and there had apparently been a scene upstairs. I fear our friend must be a gay young man ! ' And George laughed. A Great Temptation. yi Laura said nothing for a moment ; then she asked quietly, Ñ ' What was she like ? ' ' Oh ! tall, with golden hair, and would have been pretty, I suppose, if her eyes had not been red with crying. And she looked a little vixen, too, I thought. I expect Sir Ralph will have his hands full.' ' I think it must have been a girl called Patty May/ said Laura, still quietly. ' Sir Ralph told me about her ; she is very anxious to marry him.' ' To marry him ! ' repeated George in- credulously. 'Yes, she is his old tutor's niece, if it is the girl I mean.' George gave a little whistle ; it was a queer story, he thought, and he thought also that it was an odd thing that Sir 7 '2 A Great Temptation. Ralph Woodland should confide his love affairs to Laura. But he did not say this. And presently he went downstairs and into the library, as it was not yet time for dinner, and there Anna Lindsay joined him. She had done her best since Laura's illness to make everything comfortable for George, and George secretly thought that she was a more experienced housekeeper than poor Laura, and that the dinners had been decidedly better than usual during the last few days. ' How do you think Laura is looking to-day ? ' said Anna, who knew of George's visit to his wife's room. ' Much better,' answered George ; ' if it were not such abominable weather I think she should go to the sea for a week or two, and that would quite set her up.' A Great Temptation. 73 'You think she wants a change?' said Anna slowly. ' I think everyone is the better for a change after an illness. By-the-bye, I walked over to Harewood this afternoon to inquire after Sir Ralph/ This was the first time that George had mentioned Sir Ralph's name to his cousin since the day when she had told him that Laura had fainted when she heard of his accident. 'Well?' asked Anna, looking quickly up in George's face. 1 Oh, he's going on all right, it seems. He had a fair lady to visit him to-day, seemingly.' 'A fair lady?' 'Yes/ and then George told the story over again, that he had told to Laura upstairs. 74 A Great Temptation. ' How disgraceful ! ' cried Anna indig- nantly. George shrugged his shoulders. * Young men will be young men, you know,' he said ; ' and I suppose Sir Ralph is like the rest.' ' Did you tell Laura ? ' inquired Anna eagerly. 'Yes,' answered George, and then he dropped the subject. His cousin's words about the beginning of Laura's illness had greatly disturbed him, though he always told himself with- out reason, and therefore he never en- couraged Anna Lindsay to talk about Laura. He wished to lead a quiet life, and knew that Anna, not unnaturally, was jealous of Laura. ' Her fainting was just the commence- ment of the fever, of course, and I A Great Temptation. 75 hope now she will soon be well/ he repeated to himself, and to everyone who inquired after Laura. Nevertheless days went on, and weeks, and still Laura did not get well. It was as if some blight had fallen on her, sapping away the life from her young life, and wasting her beauty like a fading flower. The winter wore on apace. Gloomy November merged into a bleak, stormy December, and still Laura languished, though the doctor declared all symptoms of fever were gone. She used to sit in the drawing-room in the afternoons, and made some attempts to continue her writ- ing, but it was more to rid herself of Anna Lindsay's company than for any work she could really do. 6 1 cannot write if anyone is in the room,' she once said irritably, and Anna J 6 A Great Temptation, Lindsay took the hint. She also continued to act as housekeeper, and Laura was too listless to interfere with her. Then one day, about the middle of December, George came into the drawing- room where Laura was sitting alone, and told her that he had again been over to Harewood to see Sir Ralph Woodland on business. ' And how is he ? ' asked Laura. The room was only lighted by the fire- light, and George could not distinctly see the face of his young wife, who was sitting in the shadow, as she made this inquiry. ' Oh, he says he's nearly well again, but he looks ill, haggard and ill, 5 answered George. ' He's been out, and, by-the-bye, he said he was going to drive into Suffold to-morrow, and that he would call on you.' The fingers of Laura's thin, white hand, A Great Temptation. yy which was lying on her dress, contracted as George spoke, and a slight shudder passed through her frame. 1 I asked him to stay to dinner,' con- tinued George, ' but he declined. He's talking of going up to town. ' George was pleased that he had asked Sir Ralph to dinner, and not allowed ' any folly of Anna's ' to prevent his doing so. He wished to keep on good terms with his new client, and felt sure that as Sir Ralph had declined to remain to dinner, and as he was going up to town so soon, that all Anna's insinuations were absolutely with- out foundation. ' I wonder he has not gone before,' said Laura slowly, as if she had been thinking ; ' it must have been so dreary for him being ill so long, all alone at Hare- wood.' J 8 A Great Temptation. < Unless he had the yellow-haired young lady to console him, 7 laughed George. But Laura did not laugh, nor smile. She sat very still a little while after George left the room, and then began to wander up and down the floor restlessly, with her brow contracted as though in deep thought. She had never gone down to dinner since her illness, nor did she do so this evening. She retired to her own room early, and old Mr Gifford, George, and Anna Lindsay had their rubber with a dummy as in the days before George's marriage. The next morning George went to the office early, and Laura did not see him before he left Red House. And all day Laura was in a state of great but sup- pressed excitement. She looked so ill that Anna Lindsay thought she was going A Great Temptation. 79 to be laid up again, and this idea was by- no means unpleasant to Anna's mind. She made a pretence of dining in the middle of the day at lunch time, and Anna noticed she ate absolutely nothing. 'You eat less and less every day, I think, Mrs George, 5 she remarked. ' I certainly do not feel very hungry to- day,' answered Laura, with a wan smile. * I think I shall try to write this afternoon,' she added, for she wished to rid herself of Anna Lindsay's company. ' Then in that case I'll go and have tea with Mrs Masterman,' said Anna; 'she invited me yesterday when I met her ; she expects her mother.' This was a welcome announcement to Laura. Thus, if Sir Ralph came, she would be able to see him alone, she thought. And 80 A Great Temptation. this actually happened. At half-past three Anna put on her best bonnet and went away, and just about four o'clock Laura heard a carriage stop at the door of Red House. Her heart beat tumultuously, and her whole form trembled. Her weak health made the agitation of her mind painfully evident Ñ so much so, that when a few moments later Sir Ralph was announced, and walked into the dimly-lighted drawing- room, he was absolutely shocked at Laura's appearance. He took her hand, he looked into her face, but the common-place words he had meant to say died unspoken on his lips. 'You are ill?' he said at length, in a broken voice. 1 Yes,' she answered, almost in a whisper. A Great Temptation. 81 1 1 heard you had been ill, but: Ñ I did not expect to see you thus.' 1 1 am nervous ; anything upsets me now,' said Laura, trying to take her hand from his, but Sir Ralph held it fast. ' How you tremble ! Does it make you more nervous seeing me ? ' 'Yes Ñ but I wished to see you,' an- swered Laura, with a great effort. ' And I have wished to see you ; I have thought of this meeting hour after hour during the long, dreary weeks since my accident.' Laura gave a fluttering sigh, and Sir Ralph led her to a seat on a couch near, and stood before her watching her face by the flickering firelight. 1 What you have gone through ! ' he said, suddenly and passionately. 'Your life of late has, I believe, been terrible to you ? ' VOL. III. F 82 A Great Temptation. ' 1 have suffered very, very much/ an- swered Laura, in a broken voice. * I can see it, I can see it ! Laura, do you know I came here to-day with a de- liberate purpose Ñ to ask you to end the struggle which is destroying you ? ' 'Yes, it must end,' said Laura faintly. 'You shall never regret it,' con- tinued Sir Ralph, and he sat down by her, and caught her hand in his. ' My life shall be devoted to you, and as soon as it is possible we shall be married.' ' No, no ; that cannot be,' half whis- pered Laura, drawing back. ' It must, it shall be ! My dear, dear one, you love me, do you not ? ' 'Yes,' answered Laura, with falter- ing lips ; ' I will not deny it. The A Great Temptation. 83 news of your accident Ñ that wicked woman Anna Lindsay said your fatal accident Ñ nearly killed me/ ' Did this cause your illness ? ' asked Sir Ralph eagerly, bending nearer to her. ' I feared as much. I judged of your feelings by my own.' 'Yes; Miss Lindsay read out of the papers that you had been thrown from your horse Ñ and Ñ and she added you were fatally injured. Oh, I shall never forget that dreadful day,' con- tinued Laura, rising excitedly. 'When Ñ when I recovered consciousness, I lay in misery Ñ lay thinking you were dying Ñ until the doctor told me.' Sir Ralph rose also, and went and leaned against the mantelpiece, and Laura saw by the firelight that his face was very pale and haggard. 84 A Great Temptation. 1 Are you really better now ? ' she said more gently. He put out his hand and drew her to him. 'When will you come to me, Laura?' he said. 'When will you end all this?' She did not speak. She stood there looking up at him. There was a great struggle in her heart. 'There would be no happiness for us/ she said presently, in a low, falter- ing voice. 1 Oh, yes, yes, there would ! Be- sides, is there any happiness for us now?' ' No, no, indeed,' moaned Laura. 1 Laura, what I told you before is absolutely true. Had you cared for Mr Gifford ; did I not know that you do care for me, I would never have urged A Great Temptation. 85 this upon you ; I would never have spoken to you of my love. The fault is not ours. That wretched girl parted us, and we have found this out when it is still not too late to snatch some sort of happiness, at least/ ' It could never be the same,' said Laura, in a broken voice. ' I know that/ answered Sir Ralph, half impatiently, half fondly. * No ; never the same, Laura, as if you had married me long ago, when I asked you first. But, whatever it may be, it must be better than the living death you are suffering now.' For a moment or two Laura made no answer. She stood there by his side, her hand in his, and the flicker- ing firelight showed her face to Sir Ralph's eager eyes. 86 A Great Temptation. ' Of what are you thinking ? ' he asked quickly. 6 Give me a little time to think/ an- swered Laura slowly ; ' give me a few days.' 'A few days will seem an age to me.' ' 1 will write to you,' went on Laura ; 1 there is something I wish you to know Ñ the reason why, when you asked me to be your wife Ñ I said it could not be.' ' No reason will affect me now, Laura.' ' Still, I wish you to know. I have thought this all over during my illness. I have prayed for strength Ñ ' 1 For strength for what ? ' ' To Ñ tell you everything.' Her head drooped lower, and a A Great Temptation. 87 moment later Sir Ralph saw a tear roll down her cheek. ' Do you not completely trust me ? ' he asked tenderly. 'Yes, I trust you Ñ completely trust you Ñ but go now, Sir Ralph Ñ I Ñ I am not very strong.' ' I know that very well, and I do not want to tire you. But when shall I come again ? ' 'Not until you get my letter Ñ after thatÑ' ' I shall come ; do not be afraid, nothing that you can write to me will change my feelings towards you Ñ but if you wish me to go now Ñ good-bye. How soon will you write?' ' In a day or two Ñ give me till then Ñ good-bye.' She almost whispered the last word, 88 A Great Temptation. and Sir Ralph remembered long after- wards the yearning look of tenderness in her dark eyes as she raised them to his. He bent down ; he kissed both her hands, and as the door closed behind him Laura fell on her knees and buried her face in her hands. * Oh ! God, give me strength Ñ give me strength ! ' she prayed aloud. * Mine is all gone Ñ give me strength to resist his will ! ' It was piteous to see her kneeling there struggling against the great temptation in her heart. ' Why was I born ? ' she asked, rocking herself to and fro in her misery. ' But I must see him no more Ñ I dare not see him now.' CHAPTER V. laura's letter. Two hours later, when George came in for dinner, he found Laura sitting in the drawing-room, looking very pale, but composed. She mentioned Sir Ralph's visit, and said she thought he still looked very ill. ' Did he stay long? ' asked George. 4 No, only a short time; but talking has tired me, so I will say good-night, George.' 'You had far better sit up for dinner; I met Anna coming in, and she said you ate nothing for lunch.' 89 90 A Great Temptation. 'No, I am too tired ; good-night, George/ and she held out her hand to him, but George bent down and kissed her face. 1 Well, good-night then,' he said, and so they parted. But Laura did not retire to rest when she reached her own room. She locked the door first, and then went up to the brass-bound escritoire, in which was hidden away the letter her dead father had left her. She drew this out and read it through once more, and a deep sigh died on her quivering lips. But this time she did not return it to the escritoire. She laid it on her ordinary writing-desk, and sat down and wrote a long letter, over which she shed many bitter tears. Then she addressed an envelope, and in this envelope she placed Lauras Letter. 9 i her own letter, and then that of her dead father's. She sealed this letter, and having put it in her desk, she commenced to write another letter which seemed to cost her even more pain and trouble than the first. * Poor fellow, poor fellow ! ' she mur- mured, as she wrote on. She paused for words ; she sighed ; she seemed half to repent her purpose. ' But, no, no, I can bear it no longer/ she said half aloud. ' Anything is better than such a life Ñ a life of misery, deceit and lies.' So her second letter was written at last, and this also was placed in her desk, and then she lay down to rest, but not to sleep. All through the long winter's night, the long, dreary hours, she lay awake struggling still with her own heart. On 92 A Great Temptation. one side lay a dimmed happiness, on the other well nigh despair. The grey morn found her pale and exhausted, and she sank into a restless slumber until the servant brought up her breakfast and letters about half-past eight o'clock. On one of these she seized eagerly and tore it open. Dan- vers Park was printed on the envelope, and it was from Lady Danvers. It was as follows : Ñ ' My Dear Mrs Gifford, Ñ I shall be delighted if you will come to me for a few days. I have heard with deep re- gret of your illness, and I am sure the change here will do you good. I also have been far from well, as I have never quite thrown off the effects of the bad cold which prevented my meeting Lauras Letter. 93 you at Harewood in November. There- fore, we must help to nurse each other ! Will you come to-morrow? And if you will telegraph to me when you get this, a carriage will be waiting to meet you if you will settle what train you mean to travel by. My husband sends his kindest regards to you, and will be so pleased to see you, and I need not say that I shall. Please tell Mr Gifford, with my compliments, that any day he can join you we shall be delighted. Ñ Always most sincerely yours, ' LUCINDA DaNVERS.' Laura read this letter over, and then gave a sort of gasping sigh. Presently she rose, put on a dressing-gown, and rang the bell. When the maid an- 94 A Great Temptation. swered it she sent her down with a message to George. 'Tell Mr Gifford,' she said, 'that I wish to see him before he goes to the office this morning.' George came upstairs a few minutes later, and after a word or two, Laura placed Lady Danvers' letter in his hand. 1 I should like to go, George,' she said. George read the letter and looked very well pleased. ' Of course go, my dear,' he answered ; 1 the little change will be the very thing for you.' ' I think it will do me good/ an- swered Laura, slowly and painfully. Something in the tone of her voice struck George, for he looked at her quickly. Lauras Letter. 95 'You look very far from well this morning,' he said. c When do you think of going, Laura ? ' 6 To-day if you will send a telegram for me ? ' Certainly, my dear, if you think you are really well enough to go to-day.' 'Yes, yes, I am well enough,' said Laura, and a strange wistfulness came over the expression of her face as she stood there looking at George. ' What train will you go by, then ? ' he asked. 'The two train will suit best, I think.' 6 I will write out a telegram to Lady Danvers, then, to say you will go by that train, and I'll order a carriage to take you to the station, but I am afraid I can't meet you there to see you off, as I have an appointment with a man 96 A Great Temptation. at two o'clock. So mind you wrap up warmly, Laura, and let me hear from you as soon as you arrive at the Park.' Laura made no answer ; she was still looking at George, and her face was very pale. 'And you'll want some money, I sup- pose, little woman ? ' continued George, good-naturedly. ' No, George, I have enough,' she an- swered, and her lips quivered as she spoke. 'Well, I must be off; the carriage had better be here at a quarter to two. Are you sure there is nothing you want ? ' 1 No, George, nothing.' ' Good-bye then, dear, and take care of yourself. Tell Lady Dan vers I'll come over on Sunday to see you ; good- bye again, Laura.' Latircts Letter. 97 He stooped down and kissed her white face as he spoke and warmly clasped her hand. And Laura's hand lingered in his also. Again she looked in his face. 1 Good-bye, George,' she said, in a very low and faltering voice ; ' and Ñ thank you for all your kindness to me.' 1 What nonsense, little woman Ñ be sure you write.' He smiled, nodded, and went away, and thus the husband and wife parted, and Laura stood still after he was gone, and there was great sadness on her face. ' Poor George ! poor George ! ' she murmured. After a while she roused herself. She had much to do, and the rest of the morn- ing she spent arranging her affairs as though she were going on a long journey. She went down to luncheon, and found VOL. III. G 98 A Great Temptation. old Mr Gifford and Anna Lindsay, who knew she was going to start for Danvers Park at two o'clock. ' The change will do you good, I hope, my dear,' said Mr Gifford kindly, for she was a great favourite of his. Anna Lindsay said nothing, but she thought the more. She thought it was absurd, if 'Mrs George ' were well enough to go visiting, that she could not dine with the family at home. ' She's going to meet Sir Ralph, I suppose,' she reflected ; ' well, we'll see.' In due time the carriage that George had ordered came to the door, and Laura's luggage was carried down to it. Then Laura went up to her father-in law and kissed his wrinkled cheek. ' Good-bye, Mr Gifford,' she said gently, Laura's Letter. 99 and the old man warmly returned her greeting. 'You must come back looking quite well and strong,' he said ; ' and please give my best respects and remembrances to Lady Dan vers.' ' Yes,' answered Laura ; and as she spoke she looked wistfully round the room, and then, after shaking hands with Anna Lindsay, she quitted Red House. George came back only in time for dinner, and inquired all about Laura's departure, and then the evening passed in the usual quiet fashion. ' There will be a letter from Laura in the morning/ George said as they sat playing their rubber; 'she promised to write as soon as she arrived at the Park.' But when the morning came there was ioo A Great Temptation. no letter from Laura, and George felt surprised, and rather annoyed. * She has missed the post, I suppose,' he said, going on with his breakfast the while ; * her letter will come probably in the middle of the day.' But when the mid-day post was due, for which Anna Lindsay watched, there was still no letter from Danvers Park. George felt so sure that there would be that he sent 2: young clerk up to Red House to bring it down to him at the office, and Anna Lindsay had the pleasure of writing a few lines to her cousin to tell him that no letter had arrived. Upon which George tele- graphed to his wife at Danvers Park, asking her to write at once, and he might have received a letter in answer to this by the last post, but none came. Laura! s Letter. 101 The next morning, however, brought a letter from Laura, which George eagerly tore open, and then as he read it his face suddenly paled. ' What does this mean ? ' he said, in an agitated voice. ' What is the matter ! ' asked Anna Lindsay hastily, who was watching his face. 'This is the most extraordinary thing, the most unheard of thing ! ' went on George, in increasing agitation ; ' this is from Laura Ñ but she's not at the Park Ñ has never been at the Park ! She says she has left her home Ñ she must have gone out of her senses ! ' ' No,' answered Anna Lindsay, rising, her face flushed with vindictive triumph ; ' it means she has run away with Sir 102 A Great Temptation. Ralph Woodland. I have long fore- seen this.' ' You have long foreseen this ? ' re- peated George, blankly, staring at his cousin. * Yes, I was not blind,' continued Anna; ' I told you, George, only you would not listen to me, how she fainted when she heard of his accident ; she has never been the same woman since, and, be- sides, I once overheard him say some- thing to her Ñ ' ' What did you overhear him say ? ' asked George sternly. 1 1 heard him say, in this very house, that he could not keep away from her; that, even when he thought her most unworthy, he could not forget her ; that he had bought Harewood to be near her. George, as sure as you are stand- Laura's Letter. 103 ing there, these two have gone off to- gether, and they were lovers, I am certain, before you ever married her!' Anna poured all this out with ex- traordinary bitterness, her red-brown eyes glittering with excitement, and George listened with absolute amazement. 'You heard this,' he said passionately, 'and never told me? It is folly, I don't believe a word of it! Laura never saw Sir Ralph until she went to Danvers Park Ñ never, it is impossible!' ' They were lovers before she ever went to Danvers Park,' answered Anna dog- gedly. 'No, I never told you, George, because you would not have believed me ; you would have said I was jealous, but for all that I am speaking the truth, and you'll find she is with him now.' 'She says here,' said George, again 104 A Great Temptation, looking at Laura's letter, which he still held open in his hand, ' that she is with no one; that she is alone, and means to remain so. She must be mad ; she nearly starved before Ñ ' c She'll not starve now,' interrupted Anna; ' she's with her fine gentleman; she considered no one in Red House good enough for her.' 1 Be silent ; how dare you say such things ? ' cried George. ' She has left me because she was unhappy about something Ñ because Ñ because, perhaps, I did not suit her.' And George's voice faltered and broke as he said the last words. 'What does she say in her letter?' asked Anna. George made no reply ; he looked again at the letter, but when Anna drew nearer to him, as though for the purpose Lauras Letter. 105 of reading it, he folded it and put it into his pocket. £ Why, here is a letter from Danvers Park,' now said Anna, lifting a letter that had come by the same post as Lauras, but which until now had lain unnoticed on the table. ' This is from Lady Danvers herself/ George eagerly stretched out his hand and opened the letter which his cousin held, and as he read its contents his face grew more agitated and unhappy still. 6 Dear Mr Gifford,' Lady Danvers had written, Ñ ' A telegram arrived here for Mrs Gifford this afternoon ; but as I had previously received a telegram from her to tell me that she had been prevented coming here, I think it best to enclose the telegram for her to you, as it may prevent some possible anxiety. Trusting nothing 106 A Great Temptation. serious disappointed us of her proposed visit, Ñ I remain, very sincerely yours, ' Lucinda Dan vers/ * Good heavens ! this looks as if it were all planned ! ' cried George. ' Her visit to Lady Danvers has been a blind.' He flung Lady Danvers' letter on the table as he spoke, and Anna Lindsay, un- bidden, took it up and read it through. * Of course her visit to Lady Danvers was a blind,' she said. * She sent a tele- gram somewhere by Jane, the housemaid, the day Sir Ralph Woodland called, after he was gone, and Lady Danvers' invitation arrived the next morning. Do you see, George? They had arranged to fly to- gether when he was here, and the pre- tended visit to Lady Danvers was to get away more easily.' Lauras Letter. 107 Something like a groan broke from George's lips, and then without another word he left the room, carrying Lauras letter and Lady Danvers' away with him. He wanted to be alone to think, to re-read Laura's letter, to consider whether to be- lieve her words. As he passed out of the room he met his father in the hall, who was going down to breakfast unusually late. ' Well, George Ñ ' said the old lawyer cheerfully ; but something in the expres- sion of his son's face attracted his atten- tion. * Is there anything the matter ? ' he asked. 'Ask Anna,' replied George hoarsely, and so passed on, going to his own room, and when he entered it he locked the door behind him and once more opened Laura's letter. 108 A Great Temptation. c George, I must still write dear George, for I never can forget your unceasing kind- ness to me,' he read in Lauras well-known handwriting, though the words had evi- dently been written with trembling fingers ; 1 1 am going to leave you. When you receive this I will have left Red House, never to return. I cannot indeed lead the false life that I have led of late any longer. When I married you I meant to be a good and faithful wife to you, and a faithful one I shall still be. But after I went to live in London, there crossed my path one whom against my own will I learnt to regard with a deep and enduring affection. He asked me to be his wife, but there were circumstances connected with my former life ; connected with my poor father, that to my mind rendered such a marriage im- possible. I told him it could not be, but I Lauras Letter. 109 wished to remain his friend. But we were parted. I was maligned to him by a woman who wished to marry him, and he believed I was unworthy of his regard. He went abroad, and evil times came to me, of which you know ; but one day, after months, I met the only man I really cared for in the Park. He passed me with a cold bow, and all brightness in life seemed to end for me at that moment. George, when I saw you again I believed that the romance of my life was done. You were good and kind ; I had always liked you, and after a little while I promised to be your wife ; promised this, meaning to keep my vows in word and deed. 'Now I cannot. I am leaving you, but not with my old love, but because I still love him. I cannot eat your bread, and live under your roof, knowing that my no A Great Temptation. heart is false to you. The strain is too terrible, and so I am going out into the world Ñ a lonely woman once more Ñ to earn my living. I shall change my name, and shall never trouble you, and do not seek to find me. Let me be as one dead to you, and so shall I be as one dead to him for whose sake I am leaving you. I am bidding him farewell to-day as I am bid- ding you. Evil tongues may not believe this, but it is nevertheless true. I grieve greatly for the pain I am giving you ; I thank you with all my heart for your good- ness to me, but it is better that I should go. The diamonds and jewels that you gave me I have left in my dressing-table drawers, and the keys are in my little desk. The money I have I will take with me, as I know you would not wish me to starve. Ñ May God always bless you. Laura/ CHAPTER VI. A TERRIBLE CONFESSION. While George Gifford was reading his wife's farewell letter with mingled emo- tions of anger and distress, at Hare wood Hall Sir Ralph Woodland was also reading a letter from Laura, which filled his heart with extreme agitation and pain. His servant had just brought in the letters, and Sir Ralph had at once eagerly glanced over them. He was expecting a letter ; anxiously awaiting a letter, and in a moment he selected one, the address in ii2 A Great Temptation. being in a handwriting he knew, and hastily tore it open. An enclosure fell from it as he did so, but it fell almost unheeded. He was reading Laura's words ; his eyes were riveted on the lines which at once struck a chill, cold pang into his heart. 'I promised to write,' he read, 'and I now fulfil that promise with a sad and troubled heart. You said my life must have been terrible of late ; how terrible you cannot tell ! If my husband had given me any cause for complaint ; if he had not been everything that was kind, and just, and good, I could have borne it better. But my daily life with him has become too great a struggle for me any longer to endure. I am leaving him for your sake, but not with you. A Terrible Confession. 113 To live under his roof, and be ever think- ing of you, is to my mind more false than to go away. But I will injure him no further than this. I asked you not to see me again until I wrote, and I did this because an inner consciousness told me that your will is stronger than mine. I can find strength to write to bid you farewell, but I might not have found strength to speak the words. e Yet it must be. We must see each other no more, though I know my heart will never change to you. You will not, I think, quite forget me, but you must not let my memory blight your life. When you have read the miserable letter I enclose Ñ my dead father's letter Ñ you will understand why, when you asked me to be your wife, I told you it was im- possible. I loved you then, as I love you VOL. III. H ii4 A Great Temptation, now, but the terrible shadow of his crime lay between us ; lies between us still. 1 1 have written to my husband and told him the truth ; told him how I loved you ; how I believed you had utterly changed to me, and how when we met again I found this was not so. But I have told him also that in future I shall be as one dead to you. 1 Do not grieve about my future. It will be sad and lonely, but many lives are sad and lonely, and I must bear it as best I can. At all events, it will be better than a life of hypocrisy or sin. This was all the choice my love for you left me Ñ except to go away. L. G.' Sir Ralph read and re-read every word of this sad letter, with an intense sense of disappointment and self-condemnation. A Terrible Confession. 115 ' But it is madness ; I must find her,' he muttered, starting to his feet. * She has left her home ; she has sacrificed her life, and yet she wants to hide her- self from me Ñ but she shall not, she shall not!' He walked hastily once or twice across the room ; his dark brows were knitted, his strong hands clenched. He was thinking what he would do, when suddenly his eyes chanced to fall on the enclosed letter or paper, which had fallen from Laura's letter, when he tore it open. He went quickly up to the table, and raised this folded paper. It was written in a man's handwriting, written closely, and it was long. He stood by the table reading it, and as he read a look of great horror came over his face. 1 1 6 A Great Temptation. ' Good heavens ! ' he muttered. ' Oh ! my poor, poor girl ! ' It was the letter that Major Ingram had left to his daughter to be read after his death ; the letter that George Gifford had told her lay sealed among his papers, and it contained the confesssion of a hidden crime. ' Laura,' it began, 'you have sometimes asked me about your mother, but I could not ? speak of her. But after I am gone you shall know the dreadful truth. This hand is red with her blood, though, God knows, unwittingly. I was deeply attached to her, but she was a beautiful woman, and I was jealous of her, un- reasonably, I now believe, until, while we were in India, a man named Wood- land exchanged into my regiment. A Terrible Confession. 1 1 7 'From the first I hated this Wood- land, who was dark and haughty-look- ing, and was, I believe, the heir to a baronetcy. He paid your mother great attention, and I was much annoyed by this, and remonstrated with her about it. She promised not to speak to him any more, but I received a hint that in my absence she sometimes went to his bungalow, which was situated some quarter of a mile distant to the one we then occupied. I determined to discover the truth concerning this, and, having received orders to visit a distant out- post, I started from the cantonment, after parting with your mother. But when some miles away I turned my horse's head and rode back by a circuitous route, to Woodland's bungalow. 1 It was evening when I reached it n8 A Great Teinptation, and I saw not a single servant about the place. So, after tying my horse to a tree, I went quietly on the low verandah that ran round the whole bungalow. From the spot where I stood I could see dis- tinctly into one of the rooms beyond. And what do you think I did see ? I saw your mother seated on a couch with this wretch Woodland beside her. He was holding her hand, and he was speak- ing in a low, pleading tone to her, with his head bent close to hers. ' The sight seemed to drive me mad ; the blood rushed to my head, and with a muttered curse I stood still and strove to hear what he said. He was urging her to leave her husband and child and go to England with him, and the weak woman was listening to his words. ' 1 could bear it no longer ; I sprang A Terrible Confession. 1 1 9 from the verandah into the room with my revolver in my hand. Your mother saw me first ; she gave a scream and rose. Then Woodland rose also, and as he did so I pointed the revolver at him and fired. As I did this your mother ran forward and flung herself on his breast as if to protect him. The ball struck her in the back of the neck, and a moment later I fired again at Wood- land, and this time fatally wounded him. ' He tottered and fell, and then I saw your mother was wounded. I tried to staunch the blood, but it was in vain. I scarcely looked at my enemy, who was struggling in his death throes. I lifted your mother on a couch Ñ the very couch where she had sat a moment or two before with the dying wretch on the floor. But everything I did was useless ; in a few 120 A Great Temptation. minutes Ñ hours they seemed to me Ñ she breathed her last, with such a look of horror on her face that it has haunted my whole existence. * What was I to do ? Woodland by this time was unconscious, and there suddenly flashed across my brain the memory of a deep well, said to be haunted, which was situated in a little thicket just outside the bungalow. I raised her in my arms ; I carried her out in the gathering gloom. Not a creature was to be seen. The man who had really killed her, who had wrecked her peace, had, I believe, sent every servant from the place. I bore her in my arms to the well, which was over- grown with ferns. * Laura, that well is your mother's grave. I heard the hideous splash, and A Terrible Confession. 121 then turned and fled from the accursed place like one distraught. I got my horse and rode all through that awful night in a state of mind too terrible to describe. I was not suspected ; I reached the distant outpost I had said I was bound for, and the next day was recalled to hear that my wife had disappeared, and that Captain Woodland had been murdered. His body had been found in the bungalow, but there was none to tell the tale. He had only met his just reward, for but for this scoundrel Woodland, your mother might have been living still, and my soul unstained by a hidden crime. * But from that hour I have known no peace. Sometimes I fancy her restless spirit still lingers beside me, and I hear strange revengeful whisperings in my 122 A Great Temptation. ears. But if in another world we meet again Ñ and I am weary of this one Ñ she will know I did not mean to injure her, and that I have tried to do what I could during my embittered and remorseful ex- istence for her only child. ' Laura, forgive your dead father after you have read this, and remember that this accursed Woodland alone was to blame for the dark tragedy which ended your mothers life. F. Ingram.' Sir Ralph Woodland read this long confession of his father's murderer with a knitted brow, and a fast beating heart. He remembered the news being broken to his mother that her husband was dead ; remembered her grief for the man who had been another woman's lover, and who was lying in her unhallowed grave. A Terrible Confession. 123 It was a gloomy story, dark and tragic, and its shadow had now fallen on his own life. And Laura? He understood now only too well the cause of her timid rejection of his love when he had first asked her to be his wife. He took up her letter again ; he pressed his lips on the sad written words. ' I loved you then, as I love you now, but the terrible shadow of his crime lay between us ; lies between us still.' Sir Ralph was just a man to appreciate this feeling. Whatever sin his father had intended to commit, Major Ingram had murdered him. Sir Ralph began pacing the room again, still holding Laura's letter in his hand. She was the daughter of his father's murderer Ñ this dear woman, to whom his heart was bound. It was 124 A Great Temptation. a terrible thought, and yet Ñ and yet Ñ At all events, he must find her. If she had left her home through his influ- ence ; through her love for him ; it at least behoved him to see that she had a home. Something must be done, and done at once ; and for a few minutes Sir Ralph was undecided how to act. At last he determined to go to Red House, to learn the truth ; to face the man whom he would have wronged. Having made up his mind he at once carried this out. He ordered his horse ; he rode quickly into Suffold, and as he entered the Market Place, Anna Lindsay, who was standing looking out of the break- fast-room window, waiting for George to reappear, saw him, and hastily left the room to seek for her cousin. A Terrible Confession. 125 At this moment the house-door bell at Red House rang, and Anna waited on the staircase to hear it answered. This was done almost immediately, but Anna, peer- ing over the banisters, saw Sir Ralph standing dismounted at the door. She then ran on hastily to George's room and rapped. 1 Who is there ? ' asked George sharply from within. 1 Let me in, George,' answered Anna * I have something to say to you.' Upon this George unlocked the door, and Anna entered the room in a state of great excitement. 'Who do you think is at the door, George?' she gasped out. 1 Who ? ' asked George briefly. 1 Sir Ralph Woodland,' answered Anna breathlessly. c George, he has come as a 126 A Great Temptation. blind, too. He has come to pretend she is not with him ; to deceive you ; I am certain of it.' 'She says she is not with him,' said George, in a low tone ; ' it may be true.' 'Not it ; they have planned it all be- tween them. She may not be with him now, but he will join her. He knows very well where she is.' At this moment the housemaid rapped at the room door, and George opened it. ' Oh, please, sir, Sir Ralph Woodland has called, and has sent me up to know if you can see him for a few minutes ? ' said the housemaid. ' I've shown him into the dining-room.' 'Very well, I will see him,' answered George gloomily ; and then he turned round and looked at Anna. ' Don't you be taken in, George,' she A Terrible Confession, 127 said, in reply to his mute inquiry. * He's here as a blind, just as she said she was going to Lady Dan vers' as a blind. It's a plot between them.' George did not speak ; he stood a moment or two thinking, and then he folded up Laura's letter and put it into his pocket, and having done this, pro- ceeded slowly downstairs, and entered the dining-room through the open door, which he shut behind him. Sir Ralph was standing by the window as he went in, and a deep flush rose to his very brow when he saw George. The two men bowed, both coldly and haughtily, and then Sir Ralph spoke. * Excuse my intrusion, Mr Gifford,' he said, c but I have received a letter this morning- c From my wife ? ' asked George Gifford, 128 A Great Temptation. with suppressed anger in his tone, as Sir Ralph paused. 6 Yes/ continued Sir Ralph ; ' and she tells me she has left her home Ñ that she does not mean to return.' ' And you, I presume, are the cause ? ' said George, with kindling eyes. Sir Ralph did not speak. He stood there facing George, and there was self- reproach in his heart. ¥ Yes,' went on George angrily ; ' I, too, have had a letter from my wife, to tell me that the reason she has left her home is that she has met an old lover of hers again Ñ a lover from whom she was parted before our marriage. Are you this lover, Sir Ralph Woodland ? ' 'Yes,' he answered, and he fixed his dark eyes on George's face steadily as he spoke. ' I am that lover, Mr Gifford. I A Terrible Confession. 129 met your wife long before her marriage ; I asked her to be my wife, and she refused me/ ' May I ask why ? ' 1 There were painful reasons Ñ unknown to me then/ 1 Yet you met as strangers ? ' said George indignantly. ' You pretended that you were introduced for the first time at Lady Danvers' ? ' I Mrs Gifford did not seem to wish to notice me when we met there/ * No ! And all this while I suppose you have been making love to her behind my back ? I must say, Sir Ralph, I consider your conduct is inexcusable/ I I have no excuse to offer you, Mr Gifford. I urged her to go with me, but she declined. On my word of honour Ñ and this is why I am here to-day Ñ I do not know where she is now.' VOL. III. 1 130 A Great Temptation. I And how am I to believe this, after the way in which you have both deceived me ? Most probably she is only waiting for you to join her/ said George, very angrily. ' I only wish it were so. I will not hide the truth from you ; I did everything I could to induce her to leave her home with me, and her answer came this morn- ing. It was a letter of farewell ; a letter to tell me that she would see me no more, though for my sake Ñ ' I I understand/ said George bitterly ; * for your sake she would leave her hus- band, lose her good name! So she told me ; you ought to be content, sir, with the mischief you have done, with the misery you have brought about ! ' 1 1 feel my wrong-doing as deeply as you do, Mr Gifford. I have no excuse except this Ñ I have cared for her ; I do A Terrible Confession. 131 care for her as I shall care for no other woman, and for this reason I have come to you. She has gone away alone Ñ gone into poverty! She must be found; she cannot be left, perhaps to starve ! ' ' Perhaps not/ retorted George scorn- fully, for he was remembering Anna Lind- say's words. ' Perhaps you know better where to find her than I do, Sir Ralph Woodland, and probably you will not let her starve ! ' * I swear I do not know where to find her!' cried Sir Ralph passionately, and his dark face flushed. ' Would that I did ; but I will try to find her ; I will leave no stone unturned ! Believe me or not, as you will, I am now speaking the truth.' And without another word he turned and went away, leaving George in a miserable state of uncertainty and doubt. CHAPTER VII. A TEMPTING BRIBE. The same day Sir Ralph Woodland went up to town, and the day after George Gifford did so also. They both went to seek the same woman ; and they both, naturally, went to the publisher of her first novel. This gentleman, Mr Brook, received them civilly, but declared to each that he was quite unacquainted with Mrs Gifford's present address. ' She has been writing another book,' said George ; ' did she send it to you ? ' 132 A Tempting Bribe. 133 1 No/ replied the publisher, smiling; 'but I shall be very happy to receive it when she does.' 6 Her first book did well, I suppose,? asked George. 'Fairly well/ answered the publisher, still smiling, and rubbing his hands to- gether. * But we forwarded Mrs Gifford an exact account of the sales, etc., about three weeks ago. Mrs Gifford's share of the profits amounted to a fairly respectable sum.' George made no answer to this. He stood thinking. Laura had never men- tioned having received this money from the publisher ; this looked as though her flight had been for some time premeditated, he was reflecting. However, he got no information from Mr Brook ; nor did Sir Ralph. 134 A Great Temptation. George then went to a private inquiry office, and finally to the police. He offered one hundred pounds for the discovery of his wife, and he also had Sir Ralph Wood- land's movements watched. He stayed in town more than a week, and was then recalled to Suffold by the illness of his father. It had been a great shock to old Mr Gifford to learn that his daughter-in- law had left her home, and during George's absence Anna Lindsay had done her best to poison her uncle's ears regarding Laura. 'She is with Sir Ralph Woodland, uncle/ she repeated. 'George is wasting his time seeking her. The whole thing was planned before she left here.' This also was the general opinion in the little town, and through her mother the report reached Lady Danvers, who was genuinely grieved to hear it. She A Tempting Bribe. 135 had noticed Sir Ralph was attentive to Laura whilst she was at the Park, and his having bought Harewood Sir Richard Danvers thought strange. 1 What did he want with it when he has such a fine place of his own?' asked the jovial baronet of his wife. ' Lu, I'm afraid your handsome authoress has not turned out well.' As for the Vicar's family, they heard of, and talked of, Mrs George Gifford's disappearance with the utmost interest, and even excitement. Mrs Masterman's opinion was that Laura's head had been upset by her visit to Danvers Park, and that she had run away with Sir Ralph Woodland, because she hoped finally to induce him to marry her, and thus rise in life. ' But he never will/ affirmed the senior 136 A Great Temptation. curate's wife, with satisfaction. ' George Gifford, I suppose, will get a divorce, and then Sir Ralph Woodland will throw her over, and serve her right.' But George Gifford did not seek to get a divorce, in fact, he had no grounds to ofo on. His wife had left him because she did not love him, but he had no proof whatever that she was with anyone else. Sir Ralph Woodland was living alone at an hotel in town, he easily ascertained, but the private inquiry men whom he em- ployed to watch him could discover no- thing more. In fact, it seemed as though both Laura and Sir Ralph had spoken the truth, George began to think, and that Laura had kept where she was living a secret alike from Sir Ralph and himself. Of course Anna Lindsay tried to combat this idea. For one thing she did A Tempting Bribe. 137 not believe it, and that any woman should leave her husband and a comfortable home for the sake of a romantic feeling to an- other man was a matter utterly incom- prehensible to Anna Lindsay's mind. But though George said very little about it, he was yet deeply indignant at Laura's conduct, and this feeling was certainly not unnatural. Himself a good- looking man, he could not understand why Laura had not loved him. He had always been kind to her, he told himself, and she owed him so much, and to expose him to remark and annoyance was, at least, exceedingly ungrateful on her part. In this unsettled state of affairs three months passed away at Red House, and nothing more had been heard of Laura. People had almost ceased to talk of her at Suffold, and the Gifford family went on 138 A Great Temptation, very much the same as before George's marriage. But George kept himself in communication with the police, and also a strict surveillance was maintained by his orders on Sir Ralph Woodland's move- ments. In the meantime Sir Ralph had never ceased in his efforts to trace Laura. After going to Mr Brook, the publisher of her first novel, and learning nothing there, he had called on Mr Valentine Ross, the editor of the society magazine where her first story had appeared, for which in reality Sir Ralph himself had paid. Mr Ross received him pleasantly, though he instantly thought of the trans- action with Miss Laura Ingram, and the story which he had never yet paid for. But he was not disconcerted. ' Ah, Sir Ralph,' he said, rising, as Sir A Tempting Bribe. 139 Ralph was ushered into the room, ' ex- ceedingly glad to see you. I hope you have brought me another story from that handsome young woman in whom you were so interested ? By-the-bye, where is she now ? ' Sir Ralph fixed his keen dark eyes on the pink smiling face before him, as Mr Ross said this, but Mr Ross's blue eyes never flickered. ' That is a question I was about to ask you,' answered Sir Ralph. ( Me?' ' Yes ! Has she during the last few weeks offered you any of her work ? ' ' Certainly she has not, for if she had, I should have taken it. That story we published of hers was above the average, yes, decidedly above the average.' 140 A Great Temptation. ' And you have had no further com- munication with her ? ' 'Not for months and months. By-the bye, she called here one day and thanked me for paying her so promptly/ And Mr Ross laughed and showed his white teeth. ' She told me about that. What made you tell her ? ' said Sir Ralph grimly. 1 My dear fellow, I did not tell her,' re- plied Mr Ross, with another laugh, ' I only advised her always to be paid through Sir Ralph Woodland ; and very good advice too ! She told me you had given her five pounds ; what she really should have had was three pounds ten. Will you have it now ? ' ' There is no hurry about it/ answered Sir Ralph yet more grimly ; and then he rose and began walking slowly up and down A Tempting Bribe. 141 the editor's office. ' And you have never heard from her since ? ' he presently asked. * Yes ; she sent me one other story, but I was full up at that time ; and, besides, her first story had not then been pub- lished, so I declined the second one ; but if you have brought it now Ñ ' ' I wish I had ! An extraordinary thing has happened, Ross. The young lady you knew as Miss Ingram married Ñ ' ' Married ? ' said Mr Ross, raising his light eyebrows. ' Yes, and she has now left her husband ; and she is keeping where she lives a secret from her friends. This is why I came to you. I came to inquire if she had brought any work to you, for she must intend, I believe, to live by her pen.' Ç AhÑ' said Mr Ross, and a thoughtful expression passed over his fair face. 142 A Great Temptation. 1 1 thought it not unlikely that she would come to you Ñ and she may. Ross, if she does, will you do me a favour? Will you give me her address ? ' Mr Ross looked yet more thoughtful. 1 What if she binds me to secrecy ? ' he asked. ' Even if she binds you to secrecy/ urged Sir Ralph. ' Look, Ross, I will give anything to find out her address. You may name your own price/ 'You think every man has his price then ? ' smiled Mr Ross. e It is a matter of life and death to me to know where she is,' continued Sir Ralph vehemently. ' She has left her home Ñ partly through me. I feel myself to blame ; so if she comes here, Ross Ñ ' 1 Well, Sir Ralph, we are old friends. 1 If you can find out where she is living A Tempting Bribe. 143 I will give you a thousand pounds, and no one need be the wiser,' continued Sir Ralph, and Mr Ross's pink face grew a little pinker, that was all. . * A thousand pounds ? ' he repeated thoughtfully. 1 Yes, a thousand pounds ; please try to earn it, Ross, and my gratitude as well.' 1 Well, your gratitude is a tempting bribe ; so if this fair lady comes here ? ' 1 Let me know at once. Do not alarm her. If she asks you to keep her name and address a secret stretch a point with your conscience for once. Tell no one but me ; but tell me without delay.' 'All right, I'm your man. But what if she does not come near ? ' 1 It's a chance, of course ; but she may come.' 144 -A Great Temptation. I So she may. Woodland, my dear fellow, just by chance I am a trifle hard up this morning ; do you think you could lend me a hundred pounds ? ' ' Certainly,' replied Sir Ralph, with a hard smile. ' I have not my cheque book with me, but I will send a hun- dred on this afternoon ; or would you rather have two hundred? I I should rather have two hundred,' smiled Mr Valentine Ross. ? All right. Telegraph at once if Ñ this lady calls. And now, good-morning, Ross/ Mr Ross got his two hundred pounds, but weeks passed away, and he had no chance of earning the thousand pounds and Sir Ralph Woodland's gratitude. Sir Ralph called at the office more than once, but Mr Ross had no news. Laura A Tempting Bribe. 145 had disappeared, seemingly, amid the vast multitudes of the great city, or hidden herself away somewhere else, for no one could find her. Sir Ralph had begun almost to give up hope. He grew gloomy, and bitterly self-reproachful, when one evening, three months after Laura's disappearance from Red House, a telegram was handed in to him from Mr Valentine Ross, which was as follows > Ñ ' The fair lady was at the office this afternoon. Know her present address. Will call in an hour. Ross.' Sir Ralph's excitement when he re- ceived this telegram was unbounded. His dark faced flushed, his strong arms trem- bled, and he kept walking restlessly up VOL. III. K 146 A Great Temptation. and down the room until Mr Ross was announced. The smart little man entered smilingly, and put one of his well-gloved hands into the trembling one offered for his accept- ance. 1 Well, Woodland,' he said, well pleased, 6 I've found her! 'Where?' asked Sir Ralph. - My dear fellow, give me time to breathe ! After all the amazing amount of false swearing I've gone through I really deserve some consideration.' 1 Do not talk such folly ! ' said Sir Ralph impatiently. ' Where is she ? what did she say ? ' Mr Ross sank down on the nearest chair, and affected to be half overcome. 1 Where is she ? ' he repeated. ' Well, at this moment I should say probably A Tempting Bribe. 147 crossing the bridge in a 'bus on her way to the ancient, but not very charming suburb of Putney.' 'Of Putney?' asked Sir Ralph eagerly. ' So she informed me. Well, let me tell you the whole story. I was busy, but one of the clerks came in to inform me that a lady wished to see me. I asked her name ; message came back, should rather not give her name, but had written for me before. My thoughts flew to you. I said, " Show the lady in." The lady was shown in, and, lo and behold, it was Miss Ingram and no other.' ' Yes ; go on.' ' I'm going on, my dear fellow, as fast as I can. I rose, bowed, held out my hand, which the lady did not seem to see. Then she said, " I once wrote a story for you, Mr Ross." 148 A Great Temptation. ' " I perfectly remember," I replied. " You were introduced by Sir Ralph Woodland ? *' Upon this she sighed deeply. And I continued, "I hope you have brought me another story ? " ' " On one condition," she answered ; " which is, that you tell no one my name or address. " ' " No one ? " I said, with an agreeable smile. 1 " No one," she repeated. " I have been married since I saw you ; I have left my husband, and changed my name ; and I wish no one to know where I am." ' " Your wishes are law to me," I re- plied, mendaciously. * Then she produced her story, and talked a little, though in a reserved fashion. I asked her address, and after a moment's hesitation she gave it. It is at A Tempting Bribe. 149 Putney, just after you have crossed the bridge, over a little linen-draper's shop. She said, " I am poor now," or something to that effect. Then, after a little more hesi- tation, and with a sudden blush, she asked after you. ' " Have you seen Sir Ralph Woodland lately ? " she said. ' " Not for an age," I answered, and I hope I may be forgiven. Then I wrote down her address, and here it is, after which she rose and departed ; but before she left she again said, Ñ " I can depend on you, may I not, to tell no one my address ? " ' " You may certainly depend on me," I said, and I reflected it was cruel to deceive so charming a woman ; but then I also re- flected it was, no doubt, for her good ! ' And Mr Valentine Ross laughed. 150 A Great Temptation. But Sir Ralph did not laugh. He wrote down the address, and then he looked at Mr Ross. ' You shall have the cheque to-morrow,' he said, ' if I find her to-night.' 4 To-night ! Why, you are certainly not going to Putney to-night ? ' exclaimed Mr Ross, aghast, who had intended to dine with Sir Ralph. ' I certainly am. I am going at once. Thank you, Ross, you have earned my gratitude.' ' And theÑ' 'The cheque? It will be all right if your information is correct. Excuse me, Ross, but I am going now.' ' Stop, stop, my dear fellow ! ' cried Mr Ross, rising excitedly. ' Why, you have not even asked the name that the fair lady goes by at Putney ! ' A Tempting Bribe. 1 5 1 1 1 am off my head, I think,' answered Sir Ralph grimly. ' Well, what is it ? ' 1 Miss Boyd. Here it is written down.' 'Thanks. Good evening, Ross.' And in another moment Sir Ralph was gone. CHAPTER VIII. LAST WORDS. It was dark when Sir Ralph reached Putney, and the lamps were lit in the narrow streets. He had been directed by Mr Ross that the house where Laura lodged was close to the bridge, and he easily found it. The street was steep and crowded, but the small linen-draper's shop for which he was seeking was not full, and as he entered it a depressed-looking shop- man hurried forward with the object of serving him. 1 Does Miss Boyd lodge here ? ' inquired Sir Ralph, and the shopkeeper's face fell 152 Last Words. 153 when he found Sir Ralph was not a cus- tomer. 6 Yes, sir/ he answered, * Miss Boyd has our drawing-room. She is a writing lady/ ' That is the lady I want to see,' said Sir Ralph, upon which the shopkeeper called to his wife in the back parlour that a gentleman had called for Miss Boyd, and then a faded, respectable-looking woman appeared. She ushered Sir Ralph up the narrow staircase, which was not lighted, and rapped at a room door. ' Come in/ replied a voice, the tone of which Sir Ralph remembered so well. ' A gentleman for you, Miss Boyd/ said the landlady, opening the door, and then Sir Ralph saw the quiet interior. A woman in a black gown sitting at a table, which was littered with papers, and 154 A Great Temptation. lit by a shaded lamp. A woman who turned round her graceful head as the landlady spoke, and did not for a moment recognise her visitor, for Sir Ralph was standing in the shadow of the dark stair- case. Then he slowly walked forward into the room, and the landlady closed the door behind him, and Laura saw who it was. She turned pale ; she started up. She did not speak. ' Laura,' said Sir Ralph, holding out his hand, but she did not take it. ' Why have you come ? How did you find me ? ' she asked in a broken voice a moment later. ' I came because I could not stay away,' answered Sir Ralph. ' For the last three months I have sought you everywhere, Laura. You knew I would seek you.' ' You should not ; you should not,' she Last Words. 155 murmured, and she put one of her hands over her white face. e And is this all that you have to say to me?' Sir Ralph asked this standing there facing the trembling woman before him, and he saw how deeply she was agitated, and that she looked ill and worn. ' It is only giving fresh pain,' she said, in a low and faltering voice. 1 No ; the pain was in parting, Laura. Now we cannot part.' There was a long silence after this, and then Sir Ralph moved nearer to her, and took one of her thin, cold hands in his. 6 You look ill,' he said gently. * I am sure you have suffered very much ? ' ' Yes, I have suffered very much,' she answered. ' I have felt that I have done a great wrong.' 156 A Great Temptation. ? You mean Ñ ! ' In leaving my husband,' continued Laura, more firmly. £ I see now I had no right to think of my own feelings Ñ that I should have thought of his Ñ but to stay there was Ñ ' * Misery to you. I know it was.' c I was very unhappy. I felt I was wronging George ; but now Ñ ' 'Do you wish to return?' asked Sir Ralph, briefly and bitterly. ' I shall never return ! But you must leave me, Sir Ralph.' 1 This is folly ! Let us sit down and talk things over. When I got your letter I was terribly upset. I rode at once into Suffold and Ñ saw Mr Gifford.' Laura's breath came short ; she fixed her eyes on Sir Ralph's face. ' I told him I did not know where you Last Words. 157 were any more than he did. But I don't think he believed me.' Laura sighed heavily, ' It is sad for him/ she said ; ' but he will forget me. He must think me so ungrateful, and so I was. I should have remembered all he did.' ' You seem to think more of his feelings than mine.' ' It is not that ; but I thought of my own. Now I see I should not have done so.' ' Well, all that is done and over at any- rate. Now, will you think a little of me?' Laura did not speak. Her dark eyes were fixed wistfully on his face. ' When I read that Ñ well, I do not know what to call it Ñ confession of your father's, I was naturally upset. Your motive for refusing me long ago was only natural, too. 158 A Great Temptation. I don't mind telling you that, unless Ñ I had cared for you as I do now Ñ I should not have wished to marry a woman whose father killed mine. But I have thought it all over and over during the last three months. The blame was not yours ; you acted most honourably in refusing me.' 1 1 had no choice,' said Laura, in a low tone. ' Many women would have acted differ- ently. Had it not been for this wretched confession you would have married me then, would you not ? ' 1 Yes,' half whispered Laura. ' You cared for me then ? ' Laura made an almost mute assent with her pallid lips. 'Then let us throw this miserable acknowledgment of a hidden crime aside. Let it be to us as if it had never been Last Wo7'ds. 159 written. Laura, my love for you is so strong and great that I count nothing beside it. You have left Mr Gifford ; that page of your life is done and ended ; come abroad with me, and begin a new life.' ' I cannot ! I cannot ! ' she answered, and again she put one of her slender, cold hands over her face, but Sir Ralph drew it away. ' My dear one,' he said in a tender tone, ' do not let any mistaken feeling of honour stand between us now. Your wrong, as you call it, to Mr Gifford is done, and never can be recalled. They say you are with me down there, Laura, so let them say it with truth. The world will receive you again when you are my wife.' ' I care nothing for the world,' answered Laura. ' The world smiles on you in 160 A Great Temptation. prosperity, and frowns on you in despair. But Ñ but what I care for, what I must think of, is something higher and surer, Sir Ralph. It has been very sad for us,' and for a moment her slender hand slid into his, 'this terrible shadow on my life that my poor father left me. But for that there would have been no bar be- tween us now Ñ none, none Ñ between your happiness and mine ! ' Her voice broke and faltered as she uttered the last few words, and Sir Ralph felt her hot tears fall on their clasped hands. I It has been hard, but let us forget it ! ' he said, eagerly and passionately. ' I shall never remember it, Laura ; never, never upon my soul ! ' I I believe you are generous enough to feel this,' answered Laura, again raising Last Words. 161 her head ; ' generous enough to put it away from your heart. But Ñ but this is not all. There stands between us some- thing more than this dark story. There stands the vows I made, and which I cannot break. Sir Ralph, leave me some- thing; leave me my self-respect. Leave me Ñ oh ! I must speak it Ñ my hope of a better and future life ! ? ' I cannot go into such arguments. This life, with its mysteries and uncer- tainties is enough for me. I cannot be- lieve in what I do not see.' 1 But do you not feel it ? ' asked Laura wistfully. ' Does anything really satisfy you which is not right? Suppose I went away with you now, would I Ñ could I Ñ be sure you would not change to me ? You could not respect me. I am putting this only on a VOL. III. L 1 62 A Great Temptation. low and human standing ; but there is another, and that, that Ñ I must cling to!' ' 1 swear I would not change to you ! ' ' I believe you would always be good to me ; but it could never be the same ; never as if we had been married long ago ! Speak of this no more, Sir Ralph. In my letter I asked you to feel to me as to one who is dead, and Ñ and it must be so ! ' ' And yet you love me ? ' ' Yes ; and I will love no other. I am not one to change.' 4 Nor I.' 1 You think so now,' said Laura gently, 'but you may not think so in a few years. A woman's life is different to a man's. I try to put self aside in think- ing of you. Perhaps someone else Ñ ' Last Words. 163 But here her voice broke and faltered. Ah, it was very hard to her heart to think, or speak, of ' someone else.' She wished, she meant, to do right, but human love was strong within her, and the dark face she loved was near her, and his strong hands held hers. For a moment or two a sort of irresistible weakness swept over her. Her head drooped on his shoulder ; his lips were pressed on her hair. Sir Ralph thought that she had yielded, and in tender and passionate words he sought her love. But after a brief pause, after one long, lingering sigh, Laura once more gathered up all the spiritual force of her nature, and shook the spell from her which had well nigh bewitched her soul. She raised her head, she rose, and stood before him. 164 A Great Temptation. ' Go now/ she said. ' I ask you to leave me now.' Then Sir Ralph also rose and held out his hand. ' But I may come again ? ' he asked, He felt half triumphant. His will had been stronger than hers, he thought ; her love too deep for the fight she had held with it. He took both her hands, he fixed his dark eyes on her face. 'You will never regret your love for me/ he said. ' No/ answered Laura, half dreamily, ' I shall never regret it.' * I will come to-morrow Ñ in the after- noon ; we can settle everything then.' ' Yes/ said Laura, with faltering lips ; and so they parted. Sir Ralph went away excited, almost happy. There was Last Words. 165 no doubt of his strong and deep attach- ment to the woman he had just left. As he crossed the bridge with its twinkl- ing lights on either side, he was think- ing only of her, and he meant to keep his word to her in the fullest sense, and marry her as soon as it was possible. He was quite man of the world enough to know that, to a certain extent, by doing this he was wrecking his career. But this never entered his calculations. 'She never shall regret it,' he told him- self ; and when he had reached the other end of the bridge a romantic desire seized on him again to recross it, and so once more look on the house where dwelt the woman he loved. He did this. He looked at the dark river rolling silently on ; looked at the re- 1 66 A Great Temptation. fleeted lights on its gloomy breast. Then he looked at the sky, dark and gloomy also, and finally came to the little lighted house in the steep street, where his Laura, he knew, was thinking but of him ! He could not see through the closed curtains ; only a hazy light from the lamp within. He could not see a woman kneel- ing there in her agony ; a woman whose soul he had tortured until she could bear no more. He was up betimes the next morning, for he had much to do. He meant to take Laura immediately abroad, and remain there until they were married. He had thus his affairs to see after, his bills to pay. He had also the thousand pounds to pay to Mr Valentine Ross. He felt grateful to the little man, and considered whether Last Words, 167 he should give him more than his due. But on second thoughts he reflected that Mr Valentine Ross had done very well. He therefore called early at the office, with his cheque-book in his pocket, after telegraphing to Laura that he would be with her at four o'clock in the afternoon. Mr Ross was charmed to see him. ' You have good news on your face,' he said, with outstretched hand. * Yes,' smiled Sir Ralph. 4 And you found her ? ' 4 Yes,' again replied Sir Ralph, nodding his head. 1 And it is all right ? ' inquired Mr Ross, with a smile. ' It is all right,' answered Sir Ralph, but a flush rose to his face, and he felt a faint inclination to knock Mr Ross down. But he suppressed this. He sat down 1 68 A Great Temptation. and produced his cheque-book, and drew a cheque in the name of Mr Valentine Ross for a thousand pounds. 'There is your cheque,' he said, some- what grimly, ' with many thanks/ 1 Oh, my dear fellow Ñ ' began Mr Ross, and then be hesitated, though he took the slip of paper in his hand. 1 Well ? ' inquired Sir Ralph, wondering if there was anything wrong with the cheque. 6 Well, you see/ continued Mr Ross, as though unwillingly, ' there was the two hundred pounds you so kindly advanced. You ought to take that off.' ' Never mind,' answered Sir Ralph, with a somewhat hard laugh, ' you can take that as part of your price.' ' Ha, ha, ha ! ' laughed Mr Ross de- lightedly. ' What a funny fellow you are, Woodland ! Part of my price, indeed ; Last Words. 169 we have all our price, though yours may be a pair of dark eyes. Ha, ha, ha ! ' He was overjoyed. He loved nothing so well as money, and to have made twelve hundred pounds by giving a woman's address was a piece of good fortune he had never hoped for. He would have talked of Laura to Sir Ralph, but Sir Ralph gave him no encourage- ment. He had simply paid him, and that was all. After this Sir Ralph went to his bankers and took out letters of credit for a large sum. Then he wrote to his agent in Yorkshire, and to his steward at Hare wood. He was going abroad for several months, he informed them, and, having settled all this, he returned to his hotel, intending to make some further arrangements before he drove over to Putney at four o'clock. 170 A Great Temptation. When the time came he started, carry- ing with him a ring, which he meant for Lauras slender hand. He felt a little nervous during the long drive, but this passed off as he approached Putney, and he sprang lightly from the cab when it drew up at the small linen-draper's shop, and inquired for Miss Boyd. The melancholy - looking shopkeeper looked more melancholy still. ' You have not heard then, sir,' he said sadly. * Heard what?' asked Sir Ralph quickly. ' Miss Boyd's gone, sir! She left this morning ; and my wife's in a sad way about losing her, for she was a good lodger, and a nice lady, and times are bad.' And he sighed. ' Gone ! ' echoed Sir Ralph blankly. At this moment, however, the landlady, Last Words. 171 and the wife of the shopkeeper, who had been listening at the back-parlour door to the foregoing conversation, advanced into the shop, and addressed Sir Ralph. ' Oh, sir, you're the gentleman, aren't you, who came to see Miss Boyd last night, and I fear you brought her ill news ? She was up nearly all night after you were gone, for I heard her a-walking up and down the room, and groaning like anything. And this morning she said to me she must go.' 1 And she is gone ? ' asked Sir Ralph, whose face had grown very pale. e Clean away, sir. She paid for a week's notice, as agreed, and did every- thing that's handsome, for she is quite the lady ; but she looked just awful, sir. If you're a friend of hers, I think you should see after her, for she had a look on her 172 A Great Temptation. face I did not like to see. I once saw a poor creature drawn out of the river, who had tried to take her life, and her eyes had the same fixed gaze as this poor lady's this morning. Excuse the liberty of me saying this, sir, but I feel that upset and put out, and I wish no harm may come to her.' Sir Ralph did not speak. He grasped the back of a chair which was standing near, and leaned heavily on it, and his breath came hard. ' Excuse me, sir, for speaking of it, but I thought perhaps you might be a friend or relation, as the poor lady had no other visitors until you came last night/ went on the landlady, looking curiously at the grey pallor which had spread over Sir Ralph's face. Her husband also drew near and looked at the ' gentleman ' curi- Last Words, 173 ously. They both thought something had happened, that somehow or other Sir Ralph was connected with their lodger's departure. 6 Can I see her room ? ' at last Sir Ralph said slowly and painfully. * To be sure, sir,' answered the land- lady. ' It's just as she left it, for I've been so upset I've not had time to clear up yet. She took all her books and papers away along with her, and when I asked if there was any hope of her com- ing back, she only shook her head. I fear it's a bad business,' and the landlady shook hers. ' But come along, sir.' Then Sir Ralph followed the landlady up the narrow staircase as he had done last evening, and she showed him into the empty room. It showed all the signs of a hasty departure. The grate was full of 174 A Great Temptation. half-burnt torn paper ; there were frag- ments here and there. He looked blankly round, and a strange desolation fell on his heart. Again she had fled from him, and once more all his hopes were dashed low. * And she left no address ? ' he forced his pale lips to ask. * Not a word, sir. She just said " Good-bye, Mrs Hare," that was all. But she forgot no one Ñ not even Jane, the girl, though she's a poor worker, and not much at anything. Still Miss Boyd put as much as half-a-crown into her hand, and then she went away, and I'm afraid somehow none of us will see her any more.' Sir Ralph asked no further questions. He put a couple of sovereigns into Mrs Hare's lean hand, and then he also went away. He felt completely cast down and Last Words. 175 defeated ; he had been so sure, and this was the bitter end. He drove back to his hotel, and found a letter from Laura awaiting him there, and he read it with a shamed heart and an intense feeling of disappointment and pain. ' I entreat you for God's sake,' it began, ' not to seek me out any more. I cannot bear the pain that I went through last night. I cannot bear the struggle with my own heart. I cannot, I will not go with you as you wish, and I ask you as a gentleman, as a man, to leave me alone. To see you utterly unnerves me, and would drive me mad if it went on. I scarcely know what I am writing as I write this, but I ask you again to see me no more. L.' 176 A Great Temptation. That was all. In these brief, ill-written lines Sir Ralph felt Laura had sent her last words to him. After this he could not pursue her any more ; it would be cowardly to do so. He sat with her letter in his hand staring blankly before him. He had loved her truly, and a great desolation fell over his soul. It seemed to change everything to him. His interest in life was gone. CHAPTER IX. NEWS AT LAST. Sir Ralph went abroad the next day after receiving Laura's letter. He went a moody and disappointed man, and at Suffold George Gifford heard that he had gone alone. Of Laura, George heard nothing. 'I sometimes think she is dead,' he one day said gloomily to Anna Lindsay. Anna Lindsay only shook her head ; she wished Laura was dead with all her heart, but she did not believe it. She believed Sir Ralph Woodland had gone VOL. III. M 178 A Great Temptation. abroad to join her ; that he had waited three months before doing so for appear- ance' sake, but that he was with her now. But when George Gifford again heard of Sir Ralph's movements he was still alone. He had been travelling from city to city, and then, finally, had started for India. And months and months passed away Ñ six months, nine Ñ and no news was heard at Suffold either of Sir Ralph or Laura Gifford. Then a rumour spread in the little town, a rumour started by the steward at Harewood. Sir Ralph was about to return ; the steward had heard from him, and he had written that the house had to be in readiness for him by a certain date. George Gifford heard this news, and Anna Lindsay heard it, and they both pondered over it in their hearts. George News at Last. 179 did not speak of it at Red House, but at last Anna Lindsay plucked up her courage and did. ' Have you heard that Sir Ralph Woodland is coming back to Harewood, George ? ' she said one evening to her cousin. ' Yes, I have heard,' he answered ; and that was all, and Anna Lindsay dare say no more. But George, though he was so reticent about it, had made up his mind how he would act. He had determined to seek an interview with Sir Ralph, and try and learn if he knew anything of Laura's fate. And the very day after he heard of Sir Ralph's arrival at Harewood he carried this resolution into effect. He rode over in the morning to the Hall, and as he entered the avenue he 180 A Great Temptation. saw Sir Ralph leaning listlessly on one of the park gates smoking a cigarette. Sir Ralph heard the sound of his horse's hoofs, and looked up, and when he saw George a dusky red spread over his sallow face. But he raised his cap, and turned round at once to meet his visitor. ' 1 wish to speak to you, Sir Ralph/ said George gravely, also touching his hat. 'Certainly,' answered Sir Ralph. ' Do you wish to speak to me here, or will you go into the house ? ' 'What I have got to say would be best said indoors,' replied George sternly. He was wondering how far this man had wronged him. That he had injured him he knew. Sir Ralph whistled, and a groom al- most immediately appeared. News at Last. 181 * Take Mr Gifford's horse to the stables,' said Sir Ralph. ' No,' interrupted George, ' if he will hold him that will be enough. I will not detain you long/ The two men walked in silence to the house after this, and Sir Ralph led the way to the library, followed by George. Sir Ralph closed the door behind them. Then he looked at George. 1 1 have come to ask you a question, Sir Ralph,' said George with some excitement. ' Do you know anything of Ñ my wife ? ' 1 1 deeply regret to say I do not,' answered Sir Ralph, steadily and very gravely. 1 Have you ever seen her since she left her home ? ' asked George. For a moment Sir Ralph hesitated. Then he replied, still slowly and steadily, Ñ 1 82 A Great Te7nptation. ' Yes ; I have seen her once. I forced my company on her some ten months ago. I bribed a man, in fact, to betray to me where she was.' ' And where was she ? ' asked George eagerly. ' She was at Putney. I can give you the address. I saw her there one even- ing against her will, and the next after- noon, when I went to see her, I found she was gone. And she wrote to me the same day to request that I would never seek her out again ; that if I were a gentleman I never would. And I never have.' 'And this is the truth?' ' On my word of honour, the exact truth.' There was a short silence after this. George Gifford did not doubt Sir Ralph's News at Last. 183 words ; in fact, no one could doubt them. He looked brown, ill, and worn, but there was a steadfast look in his dark eyes as he spoke that was unmistakable. * And,' asked George after a moment or two, ' what was she doing? Did she tell you ?' ' It was through her pen that I traced her. She had taken a story to a man called Valentine Ross. But she did not speak of her affairs. When we parted I expected to see her again ? ' Sir Ralph's voice slightly faltered as he said these last words, and again that dusky colour rose to his face. 1 Then Ñ you went to her with Ñ a pur- pose ? ' said George slowly. ' I went to her with a purpose,' an- swered Sir Ralph. ' As I told you before, Mr Gifford, I do not seek to defend my- 184 A Great Temptation. self; to you, at least, I have no defence to offer. I went to try to induce her to go abroad with me until we could be married. But she refused to accept my offer. There is no blame due to her ; none, none!' continued Sir Ralph excitedly, and he began to pace the room with irregular footsteps. ' If ever there was a woman who deserved respect and honour from all men it is Ñ your wife. She asked me to leave her ; to leave her for motives which I do not understand, and yet which I honour. She has been alone since she left you ; alone toiling, I believe, for her daily bread, rather than accept all I could offer her.' * Then she will propably starve/ re- torted George Gifford bitterly. ' I do not believe she can make enough to live on Ñ and this is all your doing.' News at Last. 185 ' I would do anything to undo what I have done. And I ought to tell you, when I saw her that evening, she spoke of you Ñ spoke with regret and kindness Ñ ' 4 Much kindness she showed ! ' inter- rupted George angrily. 1 At all events, she seemed to think more of your feelings than she thought of mine. But why continue this conversa- tion ? It can do no good ; it is only pain- ful, and I have told you everything I know.' * Will you give me the address where she was lodging at Putney, and then I will go ? ' ' I will get it for you. She went there by the name of Miss Boyd, and she was lodging above a small linen-draper's shop, just after you have crossed the bridge. They call the people Hare.' 1 86 A Great Temptation. George took down the address, and then almost without another word he left Harewood. He was now convinced that his wife had never been with Sir Ralph, but he knew also that she had left him for Sir Ralph's sake. He rode moodily back to Suffold. He asked himself what he should do ? At all events, he was bound to see that she did not starve. He remembered the straits she had been in before he married her. He understood now why she had married him, and the thought was very bitter to him. She had married him because she believed Sir Ralph was changed to her, and she had nothing to live on ! George felt an angry man when he re- turned to Red House, and Anna Lindsay knew that he had heard something fresh, but she dare not ask him what it was. News at Last. 187 But when, two days later, he announced his intention of going up to town without giving any reason, she felt very uneasy. Could he have heard where Laura was, and was he going to her ? ' Anna asked herself jealously. But there was some- thing in George's manner that forbade her to make any inquiries. So George went away unquestioned, and at Putney he heard every word of Sir Ralph's story confirmed. * Oh, yes,' said sad-faced Mrs Hare, ' I remember Miss Boyd perfectly, for she was quite the lady, poor dear;' and Mrs Hare shook her head. 1 And did anyone come to see her ? ' asked George, with darkling brow. 'Just once. A tall, dark-faced gentle- man. He came one evening, and I mis- doubt he brought poor Miss Boyd some 1 88 A Great Temptation. bad news. I heard her a-moaning and groaning most all the night after he was gone, and walking about as if she could get no rest. And in the morning she went away with such a look on her face I could not get it out of my head for days. Then in the afternoon the gentleman came back, and he was that awful put out when he heard she was gone I thought he was going to take a fit. But he didn't. He put as much as two pounds into my hand, and then he went away, for he was quite a gentleman, as anyone could see.' ' And you have heard nothing more Ñ of the lady ? ' ' Not a word. My belief is there is nothing more to hear, and that she's lying in the river bed ; but that's only my sus- picion. And to be sure she took her News at Last. 189 books and papers with her, and they could be no use to her there/ 6 But what makes you think of such a thing ? ' asked George, in some agitation. ' Just her looks when she went away. She had a kind of it's - all - up look in her face as she crossed these doors if ever a woman had.' This was all George could learn at Putney, and the police had no news for him. He, however, renewed his offer of a reward for any information concerning his lost wife, and he left her photograph with the superintendent with whom he was in communication. Then he returned to Suffold, but still he did not tell either his father or Anna Lindsay of his errand to town. He did not speak of Laura now, and they also did not speak of her to him. They fell 190 A Great Temptation. into their old ways; Anna Lindsay ordered the house, and studied George's tastes, and played whist with her uncle and cousin in the quiet evenings. It was the same as before his marriage, and yet with a difference. Laura's memory rankled in George's heart, and he could not forgive the wife who had forsaken him. But, suddenly, in the winter time, news came of Laura at last. A telegram first, and then a letter from the superintendent of police in London, with whom George had entrusted the case, recalled him to town. In the letter the superintendent regretted to inform Mr Gifford that the body of a poor lady had been rescued from the river, whose appearance bore so strong a resemblance to the portrait in his possession that he himself had no doubt as to its identity. But he re- News at Last, 1 9 1 quested Mr Gifford at once to proceed to London also for the purpose of iden- tification. This letter was a great shock to George. He remembered at once what the shop- keeper's wife had said at Putney of the despairing look on Laura's face when she had left her house ; he remembered a hundred things which, in his anger against her, he had well nigh forgotten ! He went up to town at once, and was met by the superintendent, who led him, half dazed, to the place where the still figure lay whom he was to pronounce had been his wife or not. 1 The face is a good deal disfigured,' said the superintendent pitifully, gently raising the white cloth that covered it ; 'but still I think there is no doubt.' For a moment or two George could not 192 A Great Temptation. look. The place seemed to swim around him. The cold stillness struck a deadly chill on his heart. ' This is the portrait/ said the super- intendent, still gently. Then George glanced at the picture in the man's hand ; glanced at the handsome, smiling woman Ñ at Laura, taken on her bridal tour in Paris ; at Laura, dressed in the gown and jewels he had given her Ñ and then Ñ He looked at the dead face before him. It was white, save where a hideous mark across the upper part of it had disfigured the fair lineaments. The dark hair fell thickly around the shapely head. The little hand with the wedding ring on the third finger was clenched. The eyes were closed, but the fringed lids George thought he remembered only too well. News at Last. 193 ' I think there's no mistake, sir ? ' said the superintendent, and he held the por- trait of the bride down so as to touch the dead face. ' She must have struck against something as she fell ; it's broken the nose-bone, d'ye see ! ' No word came from George's pale lips. He stood staring as if spell-bound at the ghastly figure lying before him. 1 There is no mistake,' something seemed to whisper in his ear, ' no mistake ; ' and then he staggered back and almost fell into the superintendent's stalwart arms. ' Do you identify the poor lady, sir ? ' he asked. ' Yes,' half whispered George. And then the man led him away, and George shuddered as he went. The next day they laid her in her un- VOL. III. n 194 A Great Temptation. timely grave, and George followed her to the quiet cemetery they had chosen for her last resting place. She was buried there as the wife of George Gifford, of Suffold, but nothing was told of her tragic ending, or her brief, sad life. It was a case of suicide, it was sup- posed, but there was no fact absolutely to prove this. It was a mystery, and, in spite of all investigations, such it remained. But on the day after her funeral George wrote two letters, one addressed to his father, and the other to Sir Ralph Wood- land, at Harewood. To his father he simply told the sad news that poor Laura was dead ; that he had seen her after death, and that she was buried. He felt that it would do no good now to fill the gossips' lips with any dreary particulars. Only to News at Last. 195 Sir Ralph Woodland he told the bitter truth. ' Sir,' he wrote, Ñ ' Yesterday I followed my poor wife to her grave. Her body had been found in the river two days pre- viously, and I was called to London to identify her. There was no doubt ; and I think your own conscience must now re- proach you for your unjustifiable conduct towards her. George Gifford.' This letter was forwarded to Sir Ralph from Harewood to his club in town, and absolutely overwhelmed him with horror and bitter, unavailing remorse. For days he was as a man distraught, and then he decided to leave England, carrying away with him the ever-present memory of the woman he loved. 196 A Great Temptation. But before he went he paid a last visit to Lauras grave. He took with him a cross of white flowers, and laid it on the new-turned sod. Long he stood there, a gloomy - faced man, dressed in deep mourning ; and some passers - by looked at him with pity, and whis- pered to each other that his heart's best hopes must be buried there. Then, when he was quite alone, when the last echo of footsteps had died away, he knelt down and kissed the turf above her head. ' Good-bye, my darling,' he whispered. c You would have been happier with me, Laura ; though I wrecked your life, you would have been happy with me.' George Gifford went back to Suffold, News at Last. 197 and his father and cousin received him with silent sympathetic hand-clasps ; and by his wish all the household at Red House were clothed in deep mourning. It was known in the little town that Mrs George Gifford was dead, but the widower gave no particulars. * I saw her,' he told Anna Lindsay, but the subject was evidently so painful to him that they forebore to ask him any questions. Then, little by little, new interests arose ; new anxieties. Old Mr Gifford took seri- ously ill in the winter time, and Anna Lindsay nursed him with unceasing devo- tion. This threw her, of course, con- stantly with George, who, naturally, felt grateful to her for her kindness to his father. She did not, however, press her attentions on George, but she studied him 198 A Great Temptation. in every way, and gradually he seemed to recover his usual spirits. But Mr Gifford did not recover his health. He threw off the sharp attack of illness, but it was plain to all eyes, and to the old man himself, that he was fast going to his long rest. He grew weak and listless ; he sat dreaming vaguely of bygone times, and seemed to take little interest in things around him. Yet one evening, when the days were lengthening for the spring, he spoke to George of Anna Lindsay. ' I have provided for her, George,' he said ; ' but after I am gone, what will you do?' ' Please do not speak of such things, father,' answered George, moving un- easily. 1 My boy, my time for here is not long, News at Last. 199 continued the old man, 'and I should be pleased to think that Anna would remain with you. She would make you a good wife, George, and she loves you well, for the news of your first marriage nearly killed her.' 1 What ! ' said George, startled. ' I never told you,' went on Mr Gifford, ' for it could have done no good ; but when I read your letter, in which you told us, I shall never forget Anna's face ; it frightened me.' There was nothing more said. Mr Gifford was not a man of many words, but George knew that his father would not have spoken thus without reason. It softened his feelings towards Anna. Here was one woman, at least, who had loved him for himself ; and then he sighed, and thought of the dead woman who had not 200 A Great Temptation. loved him, lying in her grave. But he made no difference in his manner to his cousin; and it was not until after Mr Gifford's death that any change took place in the quiet household. But, as the spring advanced, the good old man slept peacefully away, dying with the respect and love of all around him. Both George and Anna Lindsay were sin- cerely and deeply affected by their loss. But about a week after the funeral Anna had a word to say to her cousin which had a great influence on their future lives. ' George,' she said one evening after dinner, when the twilight was gathering around them, ' I must be thinking of leav- ing Red House now.' ' I do not see any occasion for that, Anna,' said George, somewhat nervously, for he remembered his father's words. News at Last, 201 1 Yes, George,' said Anna, in an agitated voice, ' I must go, for people would talk about you and me Ñ unless Ñ ' ' Unless we were married, I suppose. Well, Anna, do you wish this ? If so, let it be as you will.' CHAPTER X. AFTER DEATH. Three years after old Mr Gifford's death ; three long years to the weary of the earth, and short to the happy ones ; a great storm broke over our northern seaboard, carrying death and destruction on its wild tumultuous breath. It swept with terrific force over a sea- girt village, perched on a high cliff, and inhabited chiefly by fisher-people. This village is named Reddrift, and about mid- day, when the sky was one dull, uniform grey, and the wind blowing a hurricane, After Death. 203 and the rain falling in great, blinding, splashing drops, a cry arose from the little group of fishermen and seamen collected on the shore below the cliff, that a ship was to be seen struggling amid the boiling mass of waters out at sea. 1 They've lost all power over her,' said an old weather-beaten pilot, scanning her through his glass. 1 She's drifting fast on the rocks,' said a young fisherman, ' let's man the lifeboat, she may strike not far fra here.' This was quickly done ; and every eye was strained watching the struggles of the vessel amid the mountainous waves. Sometimes she seemed to disappear ; then again she rose. She seemed a trim little ship, and the seamen present pronounced her to be a yacht. Amongst those watch- ? 204 A Great Temptation. ing her on the shore was a tall, slender woman, dressed in blue serge, and wearing a sailor hat. By her side was another woman, a girl who, apparently, was her servant. ' Go, Elizabeth/ said the tall lady to the girl, and producing a bunch of keys as she spoke, ' and bring down the brandy out of the cupboard in the parlour, and two blankets. If the ship strikes we should have something ready for the poor men.' ' Yes, Madame,' replied the girl, and she turned and ran with quick light steps up the steep path that led from the shore to the village. Ten minutes later the doomed ship, swaying, tumbling, helpless, drifted with a grinding, crushing blow against one of the huge, brown, half-submerged rocks that After Death. 205 stand out into the sea only a few yards distant to Reddrift. The lifeboat was ready ; there was a momentary lull ; gallant hands pushed her off, and six gallant young fishermen instantly manned her. They rowed slowly out. The foam swept over them, the waves seemed to engulf them, but still they went on. They reached the ship ; the bystanders saw some of the sailors leap from the ship into the boat. They saw, too, one man lowered by a rope by those on board, and received in the arms of the men in the boat ; he was evidently injured. Then they saw the lifeboat push off again from the sinking ship. There were still some sailors on board of her, but the lifeboat now quickly sped her way to the shore, and men standing 206 A Great Temptation. there ran out into the surf and drew her in. The rescued sailors sprang out of the boat, but still they carried the injured man in their arms, and he was quickly laid on the shore. Then the tall woman, whom they called Madame, bade them lift him on the blankets she had sent for; she knelt down beside him and moistened his lips with the brandy her servant had brought her. His face was haggard and marked, his hair grey at the temples, but as Madame bent over him, a little cry escaped her lips. One of the sailors of the wrecked ship, who was also bending over him, now looked up. ' How was he hurt ? ' asked Madame quickly. After Death. 207 ' A spar struck him, my lady/ answered this man, * about an hour ago, and he's never spoken since. He's the owner of the yacht. He's Sir Ralph Wood- land.' 1 1 know/ answered Madame, with her dark eyes fixed on the haggard face lying before her. * He's an old friend of mine. He must be carried at once to my house in the village.' This was quickly done. A mattress was procured, and on this Sir Ralph Woodland was carried to Madame's picturesque, old - fashioned house in the village. It stood back in a garden. It showed all the signs of care and attention in its surroundings and details. ' Take him to my room/ said Madame, who was walking by the side of the 208 A Great Temptation. mattress. * Elizabeth, run on and stir the fire, and show the men the way. And, Davidson,' and she turned to an old fisherman who was also walking in the procession, ' run as fast as you can for Dr Newbridge. Tell him to come at once ; that a gentleman, the owner of the wrecked yacht, is seriously injured.' * Yes, Madame,' answered the old fisher- man, touching his cap respectfully. They evidently all knew her. She was, in- deed, considered the great lady of the village, and in times of poverty, sick- ness or sorrow was never appealed to in vain. In a few minutes more Sir Ralph Woodland was carried into a comfortable bedroom and laid on the bed. Here, as outside, everything was arranged with After Death. 209 good taste. Again Madame bent over the prostrate man, and this time he swal- lowed a little of the brandy she held to his lips. Then his drenched clothes were removed, and replaced by a warm flannel dressing-gown, and his wet boots pulled off, and his cold feet chafed with spirit. Madame, assisted by one of the sailors of the yacht, did everything she could to revive him, and a quarter of an hour later the village doctor hurried in. 1 Ah, Madame,' he said, also respect- fully, ' I hope there is nothing serious the matter ? ' He was a long, lean, weather-beaten man, this village doctor, but he apparently had his wits about him, and after examining the patient he beckoned Madame out of the room. c It's slight concussion of the brain,' he VOL. III. 210 A Great Temptation. said ; ' the sailor says a spar struck him on the head, but he'll pull through all right. He'll wander a bit most likely, and must be watched/ ' I will watch him,' answered Madame calmly, though her handsome face was very pale. ' I thank God that it is no worse.' A serene expression of trust and hope shone in her dark eyes as she spoke. She looked a woman of lofty aims, and a pure and stainless life, and the village doctor regarded her with admiration. * It is very good of you,' he said. { But you are always good/ 'He is an old friend of mine,' replied Madame, ' and I am naturally pleased to help him. The other poor men, doctor, can have what they want in the kitchen, After Death. 211 Elizabeth can see after them 3 and I will pay for their accommodation in the village until we see what Sir Ralph's wishes are regarding them.' 'Sir Ralph?' said the doctor, inquir- ingly. 1 Yes, Sir Ralph Woodland ; I knew him several years ago.' The doctor, after doing what he could for Sir Ralph, and giving Madame direc- tions, hurried away to see what assist- ance the rest of the men required ; and Madame was left alone with her unex- pected guest. She stood looking at him and her eyes grew soft and moist as she did so. ' It is strange, strange,' she murmured, and she bent down and took one of his brown, lean hands in hers. Her touch seemed to affect his dulled 212 A Great Temptation. senses. He stirred, and a moment or two later opened his eyes, and fixed them with a bewildered look on her face. ' Do you feel better ? ' she asked softly. ( This is a strange meeting.' ' After death,' murmured Sir Ralph, still looking up at Madame's face ; ? this is after death.' She did not contradict him. She thought he was wandering, as the doctor had said that it was not unlikely that he should do so. She therefore sat quietly down by the bed, and Sir Ralph's sunken eyes followed her as she did this. ' You are not much changed,' he said presently, in a dreamy, far-away voice, ' only you look happier. ' I am happier,' answered Madame After Death, 2 1 3 gently. ' I have lived through the storm and found rest at last, Sir Ralph.' 1 In death ? ' asked the half-unconscious man. 1 No, in life,' answered Madame sooth- ingly. ' But you died ? I always wished to meet you after death Ñ and we have met at last Ñ met at last ! He put his hand out as if he wished to take Madame's, and she took it in her own. f It is warm,' murmured Sir Ralph. ' How strange that it should be warm ! ' 1 It is warm with life/ smiled Madame, a little wistfully. ; ' But you are dead ? I went to your grave Ñ it broke my heart/ There was something inexpressibly 214 A Great Temptation. mournful in Sir Ralph's tone as he said this, and Madame's eyes filled with sudden tears. 1 It broke my heart/ he kept murmur- ing, and then he seemed to relapse into partial unconsciousness, though his lips moved occasionally. Presently he seemed to sleep, but about four o'clock, when the doctor returned, he woke up, and looked at him as if in aston- ishment. 1 Who are you ? ' he asked. * I am the doctor, Dr Newbridge ; and I have good news for you, Sir Ralph Woodland. All the men on board your yacht have been rescued by the lifeboat, and the poor fellows are all right, and be- ing well cared for here by Madame,' and the doctor turned and looked at the mis- tress of the house as he spoke. After Death. 215 Sir Ralph's eyes followed his, and fixed themselves on the handsome features which seemed so strangely familiar to him. 1 Madame ? ' he repeated. 1 Yes, Sir Ralph,' said Madame, and a soft blush spread over her face as she spoke ; * you knew me long ago under another name Ñ Laura Ingram Ñ ' Sir Ralph started up in bed as he heard the name, and stared at Laura with wide- open eyes. ' It is long since,' she said falteringly. ' Laura ! ' gasped Sir Ralph. ' Not Ñ not living ! ' 'Yes,' answered Laura a little sadly, 1 living still. I said I must be as one dead to you when we parted, and I have been Ñ but Ñ ' 1 Humph ! ' said the doctor between his teeth, and turned away and quietly left 216 A Great Temptation. the room. He was too shrewd a man not to see that his presence was no longer wanted. 1 But/ said Sir Ralph, after he was gone, with a strange, yearning, puzzled look on his haggard face, and stretching out his hands towards her, * Mr Gifford wrote to me that you were dead. I went to your grave Ñ ' ' George was deceived then by some mistake,' answered Laura, 'for I do not think intentionally he would mislead you. I have lived all this time as Madame Vauvert/ 1 Madame Vauvert, the writer ? ' asked Sir Ralph in extreme surprise. 'Yes/ said Laura, with a faint smile. * When I first left my husband I went to Mr Brook, the publisher, and threw my- self on his mercy. I asked him to keep After Death. 217 my true name and address a secret from everyone, and he has most honourably fulfilled his trust. As Madame Vauvert I have done very well, and for the last two years have lived on the coast here.' * Strange ! This is, indeed, most strange!' exclaimed Ralph, still with his eyes fixed on Laura's face, as if he could scarcely believe the evidence of his own senses. * I have read some of Madame Vauvert's books, and I Ñ used to think of you as I did so Ñ though when did I not think of you!' ' That is all past and ended now/ answered Laura gently. He did not speak for a moment ; then he put out one of his hands and grasped hers with nervous force. 1 My life has been one long remorse/ he said. 218 A Great Temptation. Laura was affected ; her hand trembled in his. A strange, almost forgotten, emo- tion stirred in her breast. ' And Ñ you know nothing of Ñ Suffold ? ' presently asked Sir Ralph, in an agitated voice. c Nothing. I have been dead to poor George, as I have been to you.' 'And you do not know Ñ that Ñ after your supposed death, that he married ? ' 1 Married ! ' exclaimed Laura, looking up in great surprise. The news astonished her. It was a sort of shock, and for a moment she could scarcely realise it. 1 Yes/ continued Sir Ralph, ' nearly three years ago, after old Mr Gifford's death, he married his cousin, Miss Lindsay/ ' Married Anna Lindsay ! Impossible ! ' cried Laura. After Death. 219 * Yet it is a fact. And Ñ I have other news for you Ñ ' Laura did not speak ; she looked in his face. She had not courage to ask him what it was. 'You Ñ you are a widow/ faltered Sir Ralph, still grasping her trembling hand. ' In the spring of last year Ñ '91 Ñ Mr Gifford took influenza, and it ran on to inflammation, and he died after a very short illness.' Laura gave a gasping sigh, and grew suddenly pale. George dead. George ! She stood there, and all her past life seemed to come back to her. The dreary days at Red House ; the subtle love that had stolen back into her heart ; her misery, and her flight. And George Ñ poor George ! She remembered, too, his kindness, his unselfish love. * 220 A Great Temptation. 1 Oh, it was cruel, cruel of me to leave him ! ' she suddenly cried, and then turned and left the room, with tears streaming down her pale face. But after awhile, after the first shock and pain was over, a sort of relief came to her heart. Poor George was gone, she told herself, and he could not have loved her very deeply since he had married Anna Lindsay so soon. Here she wronged George, but it made her self-reproach lighter, and as these thoughts were passing through her mind the doctor rapped at the door of the room she was in. * May I come in ? ' he asked, and when he entered he looked very grave. ? I've no right to interfere I know,' he said, cast- ing down his eyes, ' but Sir Ralph Wood- land is my patient, and any sort of excite- ment is bad for him at present. They told After Death. 221 me just now that you had left his room, and when I went up to him I found him very much upset. He ought Ñ in fact, he must Ñ be kept very quiet, or, with the injury to his head we'll be having a case of brain fever.' ' I Ñ am so sorry/ faltered Laura, c but Ñ he told me some sad news.' 1 So he told me. But please, Madame, go to him now, and try to keep him calm.' And after a few moments Laura went. She sat down by the bedside and spoke soothing words to the injured man, and her voice seemed to have the old sweet charm for him. ' If you are sure it is not all a dream? ' he said wistfully. ' 1 am sure it is not a dream,' answered Laura gently. ' I am sure you are here 222 A Gret Temptation. in my house at Reddrift, and that all your poor men are saved, and that I am going to nurse you and take care of you until you are quite well.' ' And then ? ' asked Sir Ralph, with a restless sigh. 1 You must get well first. And now take this and try to sleep.' Many days passed before Sir Ralph was 1 quite well/ Anxious days to his old friend and constant nurse, who used to sit by him, noting sadly how changed he was, how his sorrow and remorse for her had eaten into his heart, making him old be- fore his time. But at last Ñ one evening in the gloaming Ñ Sir Ralph spoke of the past. 1 There is surely nothing to part us After Der*h. 223 now, Laura ? ' he asked nervously, looking up in her half-averted face. ' There is still Ñ my poor father's crime/ answered Laura, with quivering lips. 1 That is nothing to me ; my love for you is everything.' Then Laura bent down, and took one of his thin hands, and laid it softly against her cheek. * If that is so Ñ ' she half whispered. After this everything was soon settled. Poor George Gifford had been dead more than a year, and they had no one to con- sult. They were married at Reddrift, but when the simple announcement of their marriage appeared in the newspapers two women were almost utterly overcome with rage and consternation. ' At the Parish Church, Reddrift, by the Vicar, the Rev. John Mason, Sir 224 A Great Temptation. Ralph Woodland, Bart., of Rathborne Hall, Yorks, to Laura, widow of George Gifford, late of Suffold.' At Red House, Suffold, the supposed widow of George Gifford read these words, and nearly fell off her chair in excitement and dismay. She could scarcely believe the evidence of her own eyesight. * Not dead ! that creature not dead ! ' she cried, panting with passion. Then she began, pale with rage, to realise what this meant to her. She was not the widow of George Gifford ; Red House was not hers ; nothing was hers except what her uncle had left her. But she was never disturbed in her possessions. Neither Sir Ralph nor Lady Woodland ever made any claims on the property or money which was justly Laura's. After Death. 225 Only unamiable people sometimes ad- dressed their letters to * Miss Anna Lindsay/ and this was gall and worm- wood to Anna's soul. And the other woman, Patty May Ñ Patty May no longer, but Mrs Snowe, the Vicar of Laytonside's wife Ñ read the announcement of Laura's marriage to Sir Ralph, also with the utmost astonish- ment and fury. After her interview with Sir Ralph at Harewood, when he lay injured, Patty had returned to their rooms in town in a state of mind almost impossible to describe. Ella May had advised her sister not to go to Hare- wood, but Patty had insisted on running the risk, and having much confidence in her youth, beauty and attractions, had hoped by one bold throw to win back Sir Ralph. vol. in. p 226 A Great Temptation. When she failed, for some days she was like a madwoman. Then she dried her tears. * I will marry Mr Snowe,' she said to Ella, and she did marry him ; but all the same she had never forgiven Sir Ralph Woodland nor the woman whom she believed had taken him away from her. His marriage, therefore, was a fresh blow to her, and she wondered how she could best take her revenge. She spoke slightingly of the new Lady Woodland in the parish, yet when, some months later, Sir Ralph brought his wife to Rathbourne Hall, she proposed to her husband that they should call on them. * Yes, of course, my dear,' answered the kindly Vicar. And they did call, but were not re- After Death. 227 ceived, and the next day Patty received a letter which caused her cheeks to tingle. It was as follows : Ñ 1 Sir Ralph Woodland requests that Mrs Snowe will not attempt in future to visit his wife, whom she so basely slandered.' Patty was furious, and more furious still when she heard that Lady Danvers was staying at Rathbourne Hall, and that all the best people in the neigh- bourhood had called on Lady Wood- land. She, therefore, wisely ceased to abuse her, but has not yet suc- ceeded in overcoming Sir Ralphs prejudices. And the husband and the wife? 1 I think sometimes we do not deserve to be so happy,' Laura once said to him softly. 228 A Great Temptation. 'We paid a heavy price for it at all events,' answered Sir Ralph, and he stooped down and kissed his wife's dear face. THE END. 