A RISING STAR BY David Christie Murray author of "bob martin's little girl," "Joseph's coat," etc., etc CHAPTER I. A YOUNG man with a head full of remarkable visions Ñ brilliant, nonsensical, practicable and im- . practicable Ñ sat in a Birmingham garret. As a "^ matter of fact four bare walls surrounded him. \^His feet rested on an uncarpeted floor, and the -^ plaster ceiling overhead looked as if some wild ^ genius had covered it twice or thrice over with if) maps of unknown lands. But the young man in reality was living at ^ that moment among splendours in a sort of fairy VOL. I. I 2 A RISING STAR. palace, attended by dim sweet nymphs and obsequious powder-headed footmen, and sur- rounded by all manner of dream-luxuries, likely, perhaps, to be little satisfying to the carnal appetite. The young man was rather pallid, and, if his outer signs were to be trusted, was at least a bit of a poet. He had a clear discerning eye, good and clear cut features, too ; and, without being an Adonis, was, from the physical as well as the moral and intellectual standpoint, a boy who was pleasant to look at. The elderly and instructed observer had to make certain allowances for him. He was poorly dressed, and yet exhibited a kind of foppery in his attire. A threadbare cotton-velvet jacket proclaimed artistic inclinations a thought too openly. A RISING STAR. 3 and the young man's long hair and low collar told the same story. There are people to whom Fancy is cheap, and there are people who cannot buy her at any price. The young man's imaginations were stimulated by a hint of the possible coming to his hands of a note of the Bank of England for ten pounds. When Fata Morgana builds, she does as well without a solid foundation as with one. The dreamer's name was Mark Stanley, and his status was that of reporter for the daily press. He was second on the staff of one of the local journals, and enjoyed an income of forty shillings per week, supplemented at odd times, though not too richly, by gains from London, when any event of the town was important enough to justify a notice in the metropolitan papers. 4 A RISING STAR. He kept an aged mother up in Yorkshire, and fulfilled that sacred duty so well that in the course of a year or two he had grown anaemic, and was apt to pant if he ran upstairs to his garret too quickly. The ten-pound note, the mere vague promise of which had filled his mind with such halcyon dreams, was due, if it were ever to become due, that morning. It was payable, if payable at all, by Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop, the eminent tragedian, of the Theatres Royal, Drury Lane and Covcnt Garden. Mr. Wilstrop was travelling the country with the lovely and accomplished Miss Carrington, who had delighted the town for a fortnight past with repre- sentations of Lady Macbeth, Lady Isabel, Juliet, Ophelia, Desdemona and Pauline. Mr. Wilstrop, so the local papers said, had lent the lady A RISIxNG STAR. 5 adequate support, whether as Claude Melnotte, as the melancholic Dane, or the immortal blacka- moor. A gentleman who in the course of a fortnight could assume not these three parts only but those of the sprightly ?vIercutio, of Mr. Archibald Carlyle, and of the bloodthirst}' Thane, was neces- sarily a person of varied accomplishments. But Mr. Wilstrop was not contented to be bound by the limitations of a single art, however extensive they might be. He had turned author, and had written an intolerable play, which with genuine modesty he had placed in the hands of Miss Carrington as the work of an anonymous writer. ]\Iiss Car- rington had scoffed at the piece ; and the actor- manager, after carrying it about for a year or so, 6 A RISING STAR. had confided it to the care of young Stanley, telling him that if he could make anything practicable out of it he might have a ten-pound note for his trouble. Now the intolerable play included amongst the characters a cad and prig of abnormal proportions, who filled the position of hero, and was indeed just as much of a hero as Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop could conceive. Young Stanley had sat in despair before this awful creation, recognising in him a ghastly resemblance to human nature of a sort, but not knowing how to change the wretch into anything which should wear the remotest resemblance to a serious dramatic hero. Suddenly a brilliant idea crossed him, and he saw in a flash that with but one change in aspect A RISING STAR. 7 the figure would become supremely life-like. So he altered the final catastrophe, discomfiting the creature at the finish, and re-wrote the scene in which he first appeared, introducing him not as the hero, but as the scoundrel of the piece. That way the brute was almost as good as ]\Iawworm, but his surroundings were altogether unworthy of him and had to be raised to his own high standard. Just before the beginning of the pantomime season ]\Iiss Carrington and ]\Ir. Wilstrop had fulfilled their first engagement at the Royal ; and having achieved a reasonable success there, had been able to secure a date for April. Young Stanley had had the manuscript con- fided to his care a week before Christmas, and had been slaving at it ever since with a loving ardour for which the ten-pound note of itself 8 A RISING STAR. would have afforded but the poorest compensa- tion. But then he had his visions thrown into the bargain, and they seemed to make any amount of labour well worth his while. The amended play, in which hardly a line remained unaltered, was in Mr. Wilstrop's hands, and had been for a week past. The ten-pound note looked almost certain, but there was still enough of doubt about it to lend piquancy to its coming. It was a Sunday morning, Ñ bright, clear, and spring-like. The sun was shining in Bath Row, and the house sparrows were chirping there, impertinently familiar. An odour of baked shoulder of mutton, which to the poetic and imaginative mind called up an actual vision of the reality, with potatoes over it, crisply brown A RISING STAR. 9 on top and richly saturated with gra\y lower down, stole upstairs. "My soul cries 'Cupboard,'" said Stanley, rising from his abstraction and looking out of the window, " Isn't that fellow coming after all ? " There was no one in sight in the street below ; but at that very instant a boisterous, assertive knock rattled at tlie front door, and ]\Iark ran downstairs to answer it. Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop was there in person. He was gloriously habited, and wore a profusion of jewellery. In honour of the spring-Hke char- acter of the da}- he had put on a white wide-awake hat, primrose-coloured gloves and a white waistcoat with coral buttons, though in recognition of the chill which pervaded the bright and sunlit air he wore an overcoat with astrachan cuffs and collar. 10 A RISING STAR. " Dear boy ! " said Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop, by way of salutation, and shook hands effusively upon the doorstep. His voice had a mellow husk in it, and his manner was remarkably genial. His clean- shaven face shone as if it had been anointed with the cream of human kindness, and the faintest touch of red at the tip of his nose gave him a certain air of jollity and good-fellowship. " Come in," said Mark ; and Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop, still holding with both hands to the hand the young man had extended to him, obeyed the invitation. Once inside the hall he gave a parting double- handed shake, and so stood beaming as if he had performed an action of unusual benevolence, and was agreeably conscious of it. A RISING STAR. II " Upstairs, dear boy?" he said, in answer to a motion Mark made him to go before. " Certainly, certainly Ñ to be sure." He went upstairs genially, and as if he were not too proud to do it ; but arriving at the garret a little out of breath, drew a gorgeous silk- handkerchief from his pocket and mopped his forehead on the landing, blending odours of frangipanni with the appetising scent of the roast shoulder which by this time filled the house. Mark threw open the door of his bed- room, and in dumb show invited the actor-manager to enter. " Ha ! ha ! " said Mr. Wilstrop, nodding his head up and down with a world of benevolent meaning. " And this is where we hang out, dear boy ? This is where we hang out ? " 12 A RISING STAR. ''Yes," said Mark a little drily, "this is where we hang out. Have you read the play, Mr. Wilstrop ? Won't you take a chair ? " " I have read the play, dear boy," said Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop, laying both gloved hands upon the young man's shoulder with a genial little shake. " And I will take a chair." When Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop was genial he was much more genial than common people are who are less educated than he with respect to the fitting expression of emotion. If you sur- prised Mr. Wilstrop ever so little you surprised him more than you could have surprised an ordinary person by the most astounding intelli- gence. If you aroused a little anger in him he remembered Coriolanus, and '* like an eagle in a dove-cote I " Ñ et cetera. In short, all the emotions A RISING STAR. I3 were readily at Mr. Wilstrop's command ; but as in a well-compounded salad the oil reconciles all antagonistic ingredients, so in his manner the cream of human kindness, blent with every vary- ing shade of expression, kept all sweet and smooth. At his angriest you were sure he was not disposed to be really very terrible. He took a chair, as only a provincial actor- manager of the old school could have done it, and sat resplendent, unbuttoning and drawing off one primrose glove with such a benevolent air of being at his amiable ease and not too proud to sit there, that for the moment Mark wanted to hit him. " What do you think about the piece ? " the young man asked. " Does it please you ? " " Well, dear boy," said Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop, Ñ and there paused as if unwilling to wound. 14 A RISING STAR. He beamed again a second later, and laying his glove upon the table before him with an air suddenly intimate and confidential, said : " It does and it doesn't. Personally, and so far as I am concerned, dear boy, you may rely upon a complete appreciation of your labours. You know what the dear old Swan says, dear boy Ñ he says everything so delightfully that we poor devils of moderns haven't a chance against him Ñ The drama's laws the drama's patrons give, And they who live to please must please to live." ''That's the Lichfield Swan," said Mark, who had apparently something still to learn with regard to the management of men. " Not the Swan of Avon." "Were there two, dear boy?" said Mr. Wil- strop, with a faint momentary flush. '' Never A RISING STAR. I5 mind. My memory was never very certain, and now that I'm falling into the sere and yellow it's getting worse than ever. I know it's one of the grand old Elizabethan fellows Ñ never mind which. But to come back to our muttons. We have to deal with a public which is wanton, ignorant, and capricious. Wanton, ignorant, and capricious, dear boy. I could not have expressed myself better. For my own part I can assure you " Ñ he was more solemn here than the average man would have been under oath in a case of murder Ñ " I can assure you of my artistic sympathy. The manner in which you have developed my crude idea is perfect Ñ ab-so-lutely perfect. I am charmed with it. I scarcely recognised my own creation." " Indeed ! " said Mark, with perhaps unnecessary dryness. l6 A RISING STAR. He also had studied the grand old Elizabethan fellows, and remembering a line from one of them about " the scorn which patient merit of the un- worthy takes," applied it to himself and to Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop. " I'll try it, dear boy," said Mr. Wilstrop. " I'll give it a fair show, and of course I'll keep my bargain." With that he drew out a fat pocket-book, and taking care that the young man should see how well lined it was, detached two five-pound notes from the roll it held, and handed them over with an air so generous that the poet's gorge rose at him. '' If you're satisfied," said Mark, " that the work is worth the money " " My dear boy ! " cried the manager. " Beside A RISING STAR. I7 the immortal thoughts that breathe and words that burn which I find in your work, money is dross. The only thing that troubles me is the excessive smallness of the remuneration. If the piece is a go, dear boy, perhaps we'll make it more. If it isn't, the initial loss is small, and it won't be the first time that it has been my privilege to aid in bringing to light struggling talent. In the present case, dear boy," he added, rising and shaking hands again, " I may say genius. I Ñ may Ñ say Ñ genius," he repeated with a grip of the hand at each w^ord. It has been remarked that to the poetic pony an ounce of praise is worth ten pounds of corn ; and the youthful author, though upon the whole he w^as not disposed to think highly, either of Mr. Wilstrop's reality or of his judgment, VOL. I. 2 l8 A RISING STAR. experienced a pleasurable thrill at these flatter- ing words. " When do you think," he asked, " that you will be able to produce the piece ? " *' I have arranged for that already," the manager answered impressively. " The Hutchinson Opera Company has smashed, and I have taken their date here at the Royal in six weeks time from now. I shall have to pay the rent at Lincoln, but that doesn't matter, as I have not yet engaged the company. So you see, my boy, our piece will have a speedy trial. The parts will be copied out at once and handed over to the company here ; so that there will be plenty of time for them to study. We shall play the legitimate for four nights, so that we shall be able to give it at least five rehearsals." A RISING STAR. ig The young author flushed and paled at this intelHgence, and just as the manager ceased to speak a bell tinkled below stairs. " Is that the signal for your humble meal, dear boy?" asked Mr. Wilstrop, consulting his watch. " I must be getting off towards my own." He shook hands once more with greater effusion than ever, and pulling on the primrose glove with unnecessary elaboration of gesture walked down the stairs with a splendid con- descension, and took his leave with a flourish of the hand and a " So long, dear boy ! So long ! " The young man had no sooner closed the door behind his retreating figure than he dashed into a room which opened off the little oil-clothed hall, and tearing the two bank notes from his 20 A RISING STAR. breast pocket struck a tragedy posture and waved them in the air. There were three people in the apartment in company with the baked shoulder. Two of them, an elderly grey clean-shaven man and an elderly grey lady with a face of placid sweetness and good humour, rose simultaneously with an imme- diate copy of his attitude. The third person present, who might at first sight have been taken for an unusually diminutive and elderly-looking boy, leapt with extraordinary agility into the chair upon which he had been sitting, and standing there with his feet astride and his hands waving in the air emitted a shrill " Hurrah ! " The quartette broke into a laugh and took seats at the table with an everyday aspect, as if this A RISING STAR. 21 efflorescence of attitude were commonplace in their experience. "Juniper," said the elderly man, sharpening the carving knife upon the carving fork and rising, the better to command the joint, " you've lost your halfpenny. Potter it out, my boy. Short debts make long friendships." The dwarf produced the coin demanded, and set it upon the table with a bang. "Juniper made a bet," said the old lady, who had a voice as agreeable and placid as her face, " that Wilstrop wouldn't pay the money. Jing's late," she continued, turning to her husband. "When you've served all round I'll put the joint back again into the oven and keep it hot for her. I wonder where she can have got to ? " " Oh, Jing's all right," the old gentleman 22 A RISING STAR. answered cheerily. " She can take care of herself, can Jing. She'll be rare and glad to hear your news, Mark. She's pretty well letter-perfect in the piece already, and thinks no end of it. I know Wilstrop has one of our vacant dates in June, and I'm glad it's coming out here, because we shall have a chance to share in your triumph, my boy." Mark shook his head rather doubtfully. " I don't believe much in Wilstrop," he said, "and I don't think he'll put my name to it." The old man laid down his knife and fork anew, and stared at him. The old lady immediately followed suit, and Juniper brought up the rear with a like demonstration. " He won't," said Mark. " You'll see, he won't. I did a thousand times more work to the piece than I bargained for. Practically the play's mine : A RISING STAR. 23 but that's my look-out, and if he chooses not to acknowledge me I can't help it." " It'll be a great shame, Mark," said the old lady, " if he hides your name." " A crying shame," the old gentleman assented warmly. " A wicked shame. I should see him about that if I were you at once. You ought to have made a stipulation with him. Ah, there's Jing. Don't mention that matter before her. She'll only be disturbed about it." A girl of nineteen, or thereabouts, very pretty and modest-looking, entered the room almost as the old gentleman spoke his last words. She nodded brightly round, and then removing her hat, gloves and mantle, ran off into the kitchen to search for the joint, the whereabouts of which she knew without inquiry. 24 A RISING STAR. " We've got great news, Jing," said the old man as she placed the dish before him. The girl glanced at once at Mark's face, but seeing that he looked unusually serious and even a little gloomy, concluded that the great news did not refer to him. " Indeed, father!" she said quietly. " What is it?" "Wilstrop's taken Mark's play," he answered. " He's going to give it a first production here in June. Of course you'll have to play Katie." The girl's face broke into a beaming smile, and she clasped her hands with a gesture of delight. "Thank you, Miss Broom," said Mark, half laughing and half blushing. " That's better than a thousand of Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop's speeches." The girl blushed and drooped her eyes, and took her place at the table in silence. CHAPTER 11. Herr Karl von Nadli was a member of the Broom household. He lived for the most part a very lonely life there, and as a rule confined himself to his own garret chamber, a meagre little bandbox of a place, from which he occasionally solaced or irritated his neighbours, Juniper and Mark, by the strains of his clarionet. Herr von Nadli played that instrument for a living in the orchestra of the theatre, and played it rather badly. He was a venerable, and even noble-looking, old gentleman ; and thoughtful people, regarding him as he sat dreaming in the orchestra whilst heroines (25) 26 A RISING STAR. wept or ogled, wondered whether his splendid old head were an empty fraud, or, if not, by what strange chance its owner found himself in such low water. He and Juniper were great chums. Juniper preferred when possible to work at home, his appearance in the street exciting as it did an unwelcome observation. Everybody about the house had more or less to do with the theatre ; and Juniper, whose small fingers had a remarkable dexterity, was engaged as modeller and property maker there. On a certain morning in June the dwarf was busily at work in his own room when the Herr von Nadli shuffled in, clarionet in hand, and took a scat with his customary wordless nod. The dwarf sat perched at the table, in a child's high chair, squint- A RISING STAR. 27 ing carefully at the joined fragments of a purposely broken walking-stick. " 1 think that will do,'" he said. " So ! " said the Herr von Xadli. " Vot is it that you make? " "It's a trick walking-stick," said Juniper. "On Friday night that's got to be broken over 'Mv. Bon- nington Wilstrop's back. I shouldn't mind having the breaking of it, though if I had I should like to have it whole to begin with. I'd lay it on, you bet ! " He gave a feeble harmless flourish with a frag- ment of the stick to express the gusto with which the thought inspired him, and immediately fell to work again, delicately trimming the breakage with a sharp penknife. " Vot," queried the old musician, " has he done to you ? " 28 A RISING STAR. " Oh he has done nothing to me'' said Juniper, "but he's treated Mark very badly. He's billed * Stolen Splendours ' for Friday night, and he's stuck his own name down on it. ' Stolen Splen- dours/ by Bonnington Wilstrop. I might as well bring out a bill myself and stick it down by Joshua Juniper Johnston. I had as much to do with it as he had, any way. Everybody in the house knows it is young Mark's work. If he'd stuck it down Bonnington Wilstrop and Mark Stanley I shouldn't so much ha' minded. Then there might ha' been a show of reason. But now Ñ why, it's simply sickenin', ain't it ? " ''You tink," asked the musician, "he is not an honest man ? " " Do I ? " said the dwarf. '' Don't I ? You ask me what I think of Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop A RISING STAR. 29 when Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop's by, and then I'll tell you and take a pleasure in it. He's a low thief, Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop is ! " He seemed to take a savage delight in the pro- nunciation of the name, and every time he used it he shook it as a terrier shakes a rat. " Ah, veil," said the old musician, wrinkling his mournful and kindly face. " Ven you shall know the vorld as I do you shall see that he is not alone. God bless your soul alive, my dear young friend, the vorld is full. In it tere are all sorts. For my- self I am come to be philosopher. Vot is the use, my dear young friend ? I shall be kind. I shall be honest. You shall be kind. You shall be honest. Ve leave the other people, who shall be as they must." " There's that young chap," rejoined the dwarf, 30 A RISING STAR. *' who's got more brains in his little finger than Bonnington Wilstrop has in his body, and he goes working like a galley-slave for three months on that blooming play, and he gets ten quid for his trouble and the other chap collars the credit. I don't want to be philosophical about a thing like that, guvernor. I'd rather be waxy than I'd be cool about it, any day." ''You are right," said Herr von Nadli. "But I am also right. I tire of being angry for otter peoples. In my time, my young friend, I have been angry for a whole nation that would not be angry for itself; and now you see I blay the clario- net, ven they vill let me, for twenty-two shillings a veek." " My inside walls is falling in with hunger," the dwarf piped. " Here's dinner-time gone by an hour A RISING STAR. 3I and no dinner. Everybody slaving away at re- hearsal, of course, to make Mr. Bonnington Wil- strop's fortune. I wish I was a-playin' in the piece. I'd Bonnington Wilstrop him." "Oho!" said the musician, "what would you do?" " I'd guy it," said the dwarf. " I'd queer it for him, somehow or other. I'd wreck the bloomin' show, that's what I'd do, guvernor. Oh, there they are," he cried suddenly, as the bell tinkled below stairs. '' I'm off. I'm as hungry as a hunter." He jumped from his seat, ran to the door, and plunged downstairs, with a clatter surprising for so small a personage ; and the musician, still nursing his clarionet, went back to his own apartment. The table was already spread in the room downstairs, and Mrs. Broom and her daughter 32 A RISING STAR. were seated in their walking attire. Mark and the old gentleman were there also, and all were a little flushed with haste and the hot weather. " Well," said Juniper abruptly, as he entered, " have you done what I told you ? Have you let him have it?" " No," said Mark, shaking his head. " I haven't said a word." '' You should have made some sort of protest, Mark," said the elderly actor. "You really ought to have made some sort of protest. I am not a warlike or litigious person myself" Ñ and indeed he looked singularly unlike that Ñ " I have suffered something that I might have avoided if I had been more self-assertive Ñ if I had pushed and shoul- dered more. But, really, in a case like this, Mark Ñ really Ñ really " A RISING STAR. 33 He shook his head with a mournful decision, and having by this time served everybody, fell to work upon the cold boiled beef and pickles which formed the staple of the meal. " What's the good of it, sir ? " Mark asked. " I made a bargain to do certain work for a ten-pound note. I did more than I bargained for, but I did it for my own pleasure and satisfaction. I got lots of useful practice out of it, and, in the long run, I shan't lose by it." " You lose by being robbed, Mark," said the old lady. " I believe in taking things in a Christian spirit, and I hope I always shall ; but there's such a thing as being too good. Mr. Wilstrop has not acted well to you." "Well," Mark answered, "the world isn't full of Mr. Wilstrops. We may do better next time." VOL. I. 3 34 A RISING STAR. The girl was silent, but she looked at the young fellow with a worshipful devotion in her eyes. It would seem to be an easy thing for a girl of nineteen to persuade herself that in all respects some particular young man is so admirable that he can hardly by any possibility go wrong. Jing had been approaching this conviction with regard to young Mr. Stanley ever since he had taken up his abode in her father's house three years before. It was quite a fixed conclusion with her by this time, and she wondered that everybody did not see as clearly as she herself did, how heroic and philosophical Mark was. When a girl has made up her mind to admire a young man it is not easy to divert her from her purpose. Mark's cheerfulness, Mark's heroism, Mark's A RISING STAR. 35 philosophy, looked altogether noble ; though it goes without saying that if he had chosen to act in a precisely opposite fashion, and to demand his rights from the man who had so impudently usurped them, she would have admired him just as much in his character of bellicose hero as she did in his other character of philosophical endurer. Mark knew nothing of the timid worship he excited in her mind, and would have been a good deal surprised to learn the truth about it. Mamma dimly suspected it, but said nothing, like the discreet old woman she was. She hoped rather vaguely that things would turn out well. Mark was an excellent son, and would no doubt in good time make some girl an excellent husband. Nothing in the world would have pleased Mrs. Broom so much as his proposal for Gingestra's hand. 36 A RISING STAR. The simple meal was over. Mark had retired to his own room, Juniper to his, and the old couple had lain down for their customary afternoon doze, when Mr. Wilstrop drove up to the door in a hansom, and paid and discharged the cabman. Jing, observing his arrival from her post in the window, where she sat knitting and studying her lines at the same time, arose and opened the street door, thus robbing Mr. Wilstrop of the opportunity of arousing the whole neighbourhood by his custom- ary thundering summons. He was radiant in a yachting costume, and had great anchors on his cuffs and collar, and smaller anchors on the gilded buttons of his coat and waistcoat. There were more anchors on the handkerchief which peeped from his breast pocket, and yet A RISING STAR. 37 another for a charm upon his watch-chain. He had been at Scarborough, and had there met one of the gilded youth of England so attired. He was of an imitative turn of mind, and thought the streets of a midland town as fitting for the display of those newly acquired splendours as the pro- menades of a fashionable watering-place. "Good-afternoon, my dear!" said Mr. Wilstrop. He was just old enough to be fatherly and just young enough to make his fatherliness offensive. Jing stood by with her hand upon the door handle, and looked coldly beyond him at the houses opposite. "Lovely weather!" said Mr. Wilstrop, faintly discomfited, but looking abroad with a sailorly eye. Still Jing said nothing ; and when Mr. Bonning- ton Wilstrop looked at her he was forced to see that her silence was wilful. 3^ A RISING STAR. " I suppose Mr. Stanley is at home? " he said. "Mr. Stanley is in his room, sir," answered Jing. " I think you know the way." Her tone was just as glacial as her look, and though the weather was unusually warm Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop felt disagreeably iced by her manner. " / know the way," he said, nodding and smiling with a forced geniality. " / know the way, my dear." Jing closed the door behind him as he entered, and, with just emphasis enough to mark the sense of his worthlessness, went back to her knitting and her study. Mr. Wilstrop, smiling for practice all the way, went upstairs, and knocking at the door of Mark's room was admitted by its occupant and subjected to a new refrigeratory process there. A RISING STAR. 39 " My object in coming here, dear boy," he began with an expansive cordiality, '' was, in the first place, to propose a little ramble." Most people are influenced by their clothes, and the meekest of men is apt to feel warlike if attired in military costume. But with Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop, who was a humbug of the self-deceiv- ing sort to begin with, and an actor of thirty years' standing into the bargain, the clothes he wore were actually decisive both as to manner and to sentiment. To-day he was jolly Jack all over, and was agreeably sensible that beneath his anchored waistcoat beat the heart of a true British sailor. There was even a faint suggestion of a nautical rollick in his walk. His attitudes and gestures were all of a seafaring sort, and he studied 40 A RISING STAR. the mad maps on Mark's discoloured ceiling with a seafaring eye, as if on the look-out for squalls. " Yes ? " said Mark tentatively. " If you are not otherwise engaged, dear boy," said Mr. Wilstrop. " I should like to have a yarn with you about the piece. I think," he added, " that I see our mutual advantage in it." " Indeed ! " said Mark. " As how ? " " Even at this late hour, dear boy," Mr. Wil- strop replied, '' the piece may be susceptible of improvement." '* Do you know," said Mark, " it strikes me that that doesn't concern me much ! " '*Ah, dear boy!" cried the manager, taking him by either shoulder and swaying him playfully to and fro. " You undervalue your opportunities. A RISING STAR. 4I Now, come ! " with a delightful air of candour struggling with itself. " I won't spoil things by talking now, but if the piece is a success, dear boy Well, we won't talk about that now. I say nothing just at present, dear boy," patting Mark confidentially, and with an air of smiling mystery. "But you'll find me true to my word Ñ nojis verrons, dear boy Ñ nous verrons." Mark was young and was inclined to think that perhaps upon the whole he might have judged the manager too severely. Wilstrop seemed dis- posed to be not ungrateful, and the least that Mark felt he could do would be to wait and give the manager his chance. " We'll see how the thing goes, my boy," said that gentleman. "To tell you the truth I'm a little bit afraid of it. It's off the general run and 42 A RISING STAR. I'm out of my ordinary line. But come out for a walk, dear boy, and we'll talk it over. You won't find yourself " he beamed again, and once more patted Mark on both shoulders. " Let that go for the moment. You'll see when the time comes that I'm as good as my word. Let's take a walk towards Erdington and have a talk. I can show you," he concluded with a secret air, "an excel- lent glass of ale by the way Ñ Ditcher's Ten- Guinea, dear boy Ñ an amazing stingo ! " Mr. Wilstrop's airs of friendship and confidence had half mollified Mark by this time, and he accepted his companion's invitation almost gaily. They left the house together and struck out for the Bristol Road, talking vivaciously about the piece, all Mark's authorial interest re-awakened and re-vivified. A RISING STAR. 43 " You have done with my idea," said Mr. Wilstrop, '' exactly what any clever fellow might have done with one of the most successful plays of modern times. I'm afraid you've gone wrong, dear boy ; I'm afraid you've gone wrong. Sup- pose now, that when Lord Lytton wrote the ^ Lady of Lyons,' he had been, like myself, a man unaccustomed to the flowery paths of literature. Suppose he had submitted his manuscript to some devilish clever fellow like yourself, dear boy ; and suppose that devilish clever fellow had turned Claude Melnotte into a snob. Now, don't you see, dear boy ? " " What else could he have done ? " Mark de- manded. " The man's a howling cad from start to finish." "Why, there you are!" cried the manager. 44 A RISING STAR. arresting himself in the street. " There you are ! If at the start you ticket a character on the stage * noble,' he'll stop at noble whatever he does. His sentiments and conduct have nothing to do with his character if that's stamped upon him to begin with." " I don't find that in the big people," Mark answered. " And I don't find it even in the little people who care at all to be true to human nature." " Human nature be d d, dear boy," said the manager with energy. "You don't want human 'nature behind the floats, dear boy. You want to fetch the human nature in front. What I'm afraid of in your piece Ñ our piece Ñ is that your people are not black and white enough." A RISING STAR. 45 "I think," said Mark, "that I've met such people in the world." ''That's right enough," said Mr. Wilstrop Ñ ** but, what the deuce is this ? " "This" was nothing less or more than a little girl of fifteen or thereabouts who sat crying on a doorstep. She was sufficiently well-clad in country fashion, but hatless and crowned with a mass of dishevelled hair of a wonderful golden red. She sat with her elbows on her knees, her face buried in her hands, and rocked herself to and fro in an apparent complete abandonment to grief, crying unrestrainedly and aloud. It crossed Mark's mind at first that the cry had been started because of their arrest, and he thought that the child had been silent and tranquil a second before. But when at the 46 A RISING STAR. manager's question she raised her face and looked up with tear-brimmed eyes of an exqui- site childish candour, he forgot his suspicions altogether and stooped to speak to her. "What is the matter, dear?" he asked. " I'm lost," said the girl, throwing her hands abroad with a vivid gesture, and so began to cry again. " I'm lost ! " "Don't cry," said Mark. "Where do you live ? " The child's reply was at first inaudible, but by-and-by he made out the muffled sobbing murmur to mean Lipton Fields. " That's seven miles from here," said Mark, "and there's no railway there. How did you come here, my pretty child ? " " I run away," the pretty child responded. A RISING STAR. 47 "The best thing you can do," said Mark, ''will be to run back again." " I dussn't," she answered, in the broadest South Staffordshire accent. "My mother-in-law's a regular ripper. Her'd take my hide off if I was to goo whum again." " Come, come," said Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop, majestically intervening. " The child knows her name. Tell me your name, my child." " Esther Reddy," said the child. " And you live," said the manager magisterially, " at Lipton Fields ? " The girl had ceased to cry, and seemed, now that she had enlisted interest, pretty much at ease again. " That's wheer I live, sir." " I'll tell you what, dear boy," said Mr. Wilstrop, 48 A RISING STAR. arranging his cuffs with a little flourish which might have been natural in a shy man who desired to perform a benevolent action. ** We ought to do something for this little waif. Hang it all, you know, dear boy, we don't light upon a child like this, who's seven miles away from home and doesn't know her way back again, and leave her as we found her. D n it, my dear Stanley, we are not barbarians ! We are not Red Indians ! We've hearts within our bosoms. Take charge of her, dear boy. Take charge of her." CHAPTER III. To Mark's view Mr. Wilstrop's conclusion was a little unequal to his exordium ; but being by nature rather a harum-scarum fellow, and having a rare good heart of his own, he let that pass and allowed himself at once to be interested in the child's welfare. She was rustic and vulgar enough in all conscience ; but there was no deny- ing the fact that she was sweetly pretty, and in spite of her appalling accent there was something about her speech as well as her person which had in it a promise of refinement if the child were only properly handled. The youthful author's VOL. I. (49) 4 50 A RISING STAR. fancies were always running away with him, and in the turn of a hand he had constructed a castle for this odd sort of fairy princess to live in, and had furnished it from turret to basement. "Come with me, my child," he said, stooping over her. " I'll see you taken care of until you can be sent home again. What did you say your name was ? Ñ Esther? " " I dussn't goo whum again," said the waif. " I've cotched it twice to-day a'ready. Look here," she said, rolling up the sleeve of her frock, with no embarrassment, and displaying a great green and yellow bruise above the elbow, "that's mother-in-law. Theer's five or six about my back and sho'ders, you see if theer ain't." She rose and began to unbutton a little striped linen jacket A RISING STAR. 5I she wore, but Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop raised protesting hands. "We will take the rest on credit, my girl," he said, and with his own fingers adjusted the one button the child had already detached. " I honour your good heart, dear boy," he added, addressing Mark. " It was like you to suggest it. Mrs. Broom will take care of the child, and you can write. How did you come, my dear," he continued, turning towards her with paternal solicitude, " to be treated in that way ? " " Feyther got his pension yesterday," the waif responded. " He go's on the booze when he gets his pension, feyther does. Then mother her gets the needle and her follows him about with a broomstick. This mornin' feyther gi'n mother a black eye, an' mother her took it out o' me." LIbRARY UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 52 A RISING STAR. "And this," said Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop, raising both hands in the air, '' in the midst of our vaunted civilisation Ñ in the nineteenth century of the Christian era ! " His voice sunk to an emphatic whisper. " Stanley, dear boy, it's terrible Ñ terrible Ñ terrible ! " " It's pretty bad," said Mark, who was almost as much moved as Mr. Wilstrop pretended to be. " Come with me, my dear. You shan't be ill used again, for one day anyhow." The child rose, and took unhesitatingly the hand he offered her. " I'll take her home at once," said Mark. The manager observed that half a dozen people had gathered about them, and he was already playing to the public, with a well-imagined row of lights between them. A RISING STAR. 53 " I applaud you, dear boy," he said, in a voice which left no doubt of his profession. '' I honour you. The small expenses of this act of benevo- lence " here he half recovered from the honest emotion of his heart. " We will talk of that hereafter." The spectators, regarding Mark's faded attire and Mr. Wilstrop's sartorial glories, put their own construction upon this speech ; and a drunken coster who had halted his shallow and his donkey to look on, remarked audibly that the two were of the right sort. The little handful of spectators, led by a carpenter who had a rush basket of tools slung over his shoulder, murmured in approval of this sentiment like a stage chorus. Mark, holding the child's hand, led her away ; and Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop, saluting the crowd 54 A RISING STAR. with the touch of a finger tip to the peak of his yachting cap, sauntered after them, pausing to rehght a cigar in a manner subtly expressive of concealed emotion. He did not associate himself too intimately with the tousled child and the some- what shabby reporter, but followed at their heels with a condescending and protective gait, as if he had taken both of them under a fatherly protection, and was carrying them far from future want and care. " Tell me all about yourself, my dear," said Mark, bending over the child and yearning over her somewhat in his simple mind. Miss Esther Reddy needed no second invitation, but from that moment until their arrival in Bath Row prattled without intermission. The story she had to tell was sordid and brutal, and Mark listened A RISING STAR. 55 to her with an aching heart. To be four and twenty and of a tender nature is to be easily made sad and for the moment bitter. The paternal Reddy, so it appeared, had been a soldier, and had fought at the Alma and at Inkermann. The child knew the names of those great actions, and had an evident pride in her father's share in them. He had been discharged, it seemed Ñ invalided before the close of the war Ñ and had a pension for life of one and threepence per diem. The little narrator of the story had no memory of her mother, but she knew that her father's second wife had been a servant in the big house at Lipton Fields. What she knew she told without shyness, and becoming animated over the recital, grew to look exceedingly pretty and attractive. Mark, who carried his researches into all manner of queer 56 A RISING STAR. corners, had lately been wrestling with the works of Monsieur Desbarolles and had become something of an expert in chiromancy, so that he had attained a knack of studying the hands of new acquaint- ances. The child's disengaged hand, which fluttered butterfly-like everywhere in lively gesture as she spoke, was purely psychic in form. It was brown and dirty, and the pretty little pink nails were utterly neglected ; but in itself the hand was unal- terably beautiful, and seemed to his fancy to be- speak a refinement far removed from the child's obvious station. Mark examined the little hand he held imprisoned in his own as he listened. The heart-wounding prattle went on, telling how father drank and how mother drank, and how the two fought with each other, and how Mr. This and A RISING STAR. 57 Mrs. That intervened in the family disturbances. Papa, it seemed, had been in prison for assaulting mamma, and had had six months of it, during which there was nothing but the pension to sup- port the expenses of the household. Then mam- ma had been in prison for assaulting papa, and times were better because the ex-dragoon went to work in the interv^als of drinking. All this in the sweet childish voice, unobscured by the execrable accent, and rendered more poig- nant by the narrator's innocent and childish looks, touched the susceptible young man of letters very nearly. He had burdens enough upon his back already, and had no hesitation whatever in assum- ing this one more, though what a bachelor of his years was to do with a female child of fifteen was a little uncertain to him. 58 A RISING STAR. By the time Mark reached home, the old lady had got her afternoon nap over, and was quietly busy about her household affairs. She received the new charge with a mild astonishment, but had not the faintest idea of resisting her lodger's will in the matter. It was decided that at all events the child should be accommodated until something could be heard from her father and stepmother. Jing took instant charge of her, and submitted her to an ordeal of soap and water, which was endured with something very like despair, Miss Reddy appearing to suppose that in running away from home she had finally escaped that trial. The old lady looked on at the operation, and when in the course of it the shins of the patient Jing were kicked, she fell upon the rebel little runaway with unexpected decision and soundly A RISING STAR. 59 boxed her ears. This brought the girl to reason, and kept her docile for an hour or two. When she was washed and her luxuriant and really beautiful hair was combed, she certainly looked remarkably attractive. She was freckled and sunburnt, but her skin was by nature singu- larly fine and pure, and altogether if she had been properly cared for she would have been an un- usually beautiful child. Her eyes were her great feature. Whether she had a soul or no was a thing yet to be decided ; but the eyes, which were of an intense deep blue, looked full of intelligence and feeling. But for them her beauty would have been rather babyish or even doll-like, but they seemed to give expression and animation to her whole counte- nance. She had no shyness, and told her tale to 60 A RISING STAR. Mrs. Broom and Jing as freely as she had told it to Mark, and more than once in the course of her story used epithets which made both the young woman and the old one shiver. " The child's a perfect savage, Jing, dear," said Mrs. Broom in after confidence with her daughter. '' If Mr. Stanley has made up his mind to keep her we must do our best for her, though what the poor young man wants to put his shoulders under such a burden as that for I can't understand." Mark himself put in an appearance at this moment. " I got the address of the child's father as I came along, and I've written this," he said, holding up a letter. "John Reddy, Bennett's Row, Lipton Fields. I've told the fellow where his daughter A RISING STAR. 6l is, and I suppose he'll come to fetch her home." It appeared that the new importation had been listening, for at this speech she burst into the room declaring that she never would go home again. "You'll just do what you've got to do," said the old lady. " I can see that you're a very naughty child, miss, and that you've been very badly brought up." " Thee be'st one o' the sort as sees a lot wi' both eyes shut," said miss, in a tone of angry satire. " I shan't go whum agen. That's flat. Yo' can like it or lump it, walk it or stump it, just as yo' please." Mark exploded in a great laugh at this, but the old lady looked inexpressibly shocked and grieved. 62 A RISING STAR. ** O Mark ! " she cried, " Mark, my dear, you mustn't laugh at such wickedness." Mark strove to look grave, but a twinkle in his eye betrayed him, and the little baggage instantly took shelter behind his segis. " Go and post your letter, Mark," said Mrs. Broom. " Don't you do nothin' o' the sort, Mark," said the child, with perfect decision and familiarity. " It's no use yo' writin' to feyther. He'll niver come a-nigh me, and I shall niver go a-nigh him agen if I can help it." " A lovely future that infant has got before her ! " said Mark. He made a move towards the door ; but the girl seized him by the arm, and clung to him, with a face suddenly wreathed with smiles and full of a coaxing and caressing persuasion. A RISING STAR. 63 " I'll be good if yo' was to let me stay here, I would. Hangy-bangy, cut my throat if I wouldn't ! I wouldn't cheek nobody Ñ not even th' ode 'ooman." "Ah," Mark answered, looking down at her, " you would develop into a model of propriety in a moment, I am quite sure, if you only had your way. But there is one little thing you have to learn, and I am afraid it will take you a little trouble to learn it. You're not the only live person in the world, and there are really other people to be considered." The child's face fell, and she looked at once sulky and confounded. The tone of grave banter was evidently new to her, and both perplexed and hurt her. It had the one good effect of leaving her quiet for the moment, and she allowed Mark 64 A RISING STAR. to go out and post his letter without further protest. The epistle bore fruit next morning, when, by a rare chance, Mark was at home at noonday. He had been down to the office of his journal, and finding no appointment marked for him before eight o'clock in the evening, had gone back to his lodgings to devote himself to his own special labours. He had already settled down to write, when he was uninterestedly aware of a knock at the door ; but by-and-by voices raised high in anger woke him from his fancies, and he ran hastily downstairs to see what might be the matter. There, in the hall, was a soldierly-looking hand- some fellow, a little bloused by habits of drinking, and a thin, little, pinched-up shrew of a woman, with a high-pitched voice, who talked at railway A RISING STAR. 65 speed, and only talked the louder for the fact that nobody listened to her. There was Mrs. Broom, holding back the old gentleman, who apparently desired to eject the intruders from the house; and there was Jing, with a white face and clasped hands, looking on with an aspect of terror. Herr von Nadli had apparently just entered, for he stood near the door, with his hat in one hand and the shabby single old glove he always wore in the streets dangling between his thumb and finger. His clarionet in its crumpled leather case was tucked away under one armpit, and he gave a serious attention to the scene. Juniper was there also in a condition of extreme excitement, standing between his landlord and the male stranger, and, if his attitude and expression VOL. I. 5 66 A RISING STAR. were to be trusted, ready to brave a world in arms. Jing and the musician were the only silent members of the party. Everybody else was talking, and Mark stood there for a minute or two before he could learn anything from the universal hubbub. Then it appeared that the soldierly-looking man was the waif's father, and the pinched-up little shrew of a woman was her stepmother. The man had, early as it was, taken a good deal more to drink than was good for him, and had opened the conversation by a show of gratitude so drunkenly effusive that his wife had taken umbrage at it, and had started upon the directly opposite tack, demanding to know why the child had not been instantly re- turned, and by what right, moral or legal, her A RISING STAR. 67 natural guardians had been left in suspense all night. To everybody's great astonishment, the husband had veered round to this view, and had begun to take off his coat, with the expressed intention of taking it out of somebody. On this position of affairs, Mark made his ap- pearance, and set himself to work to restore order. The ex-dragoon was very drunk indeed, but he could still see that the new-comer looked active, stalwart, and determined, and his pugnacious fires were cooled a little. " That," he said, lurching at the door of the little front room and waving a hand towards the child, who sat apparently unconcerned, swinging her feet to and fro beneath her chair, " that's my own flesh and blood. Look arrit ! Now just look arrit. 68 A RISING STAR. That's the third time she's run away from home, and I've licked her every time. I've done my duty as a father by her, and I've Hcked her every time. I shall be hanged for that kid one of these days," he added, with a sudden plaintiveness which almost melted into tears. " And where's the good of it ? I get no respect and I get no affection. That's hard upon a man, ladies and gentlemen, Ñ a man who's fought and bled for his native country, and then has no respect and affection from his only child. You don't know how hard it is until you try it." Here he began to weep and to bemoan himself, saying that he wished himself dead Ñ an aspiration in which his wife joined audibly with great seeming heartiness. " Now you know," said Mark gravely, '' that A RISING STAR. 69 you're not in a fit state at present to be trusted with the child." The woman, with great fierceness and volubiHty, demanded to know who he was, that he should come in between people and their own flesh and blood, and having talked herself into a tearing passion, made a sudden dash at the runaway. This was the beginning of an appalling tumult. The child had cause to scream, but she shrieked beyond all warrant. The woman screamed, be- labouring her. Jing cried in terror at the scene, and the rest all shouted together, tugging the combatants apart. " You ever come home again," shrieked the infuri- ated woman, " and Til be the death o' you." "Come," said Mark, who was white with anger and excitement. " It's time to put an end to 70 A RISING STAR. this. If you people are not quiet I will call in the police and give you both in charge. You are no more fit to have control of a Christian child than if you were a brace of savages. That's evident enough." " And who is fit to take care of a child if we're not? " the woman shrieked at him across the little intervening crowd. ** I will take care of the child," said Mark. '* Leave her to me, and go and drink and fight out your worthless lives together, the pair of you." The woman went suddenly quiet, and turning to her husband took him by the arm. " Come along. Jack," she said. " That's a good riddance of bad rubbish, anyway. I'd like your name, if you please, young man ; and yours, if you A RISING STAR. 7I please, mum ; and yours, if you please, sir. We're Christian people if we're not fit to take care of a Christian child, and we'd like to know who we're a-leaving her with." " That gives you my landlord's name and mine," said Mark, drawing an envelope from his pocket and giving it to her. *' That's my office address," he added, handing her a card. " And now you know all about me and can go." They went with so little further trouble that everybody was amazed. The contract was finished ; and a young bachelor of four and twenty had a girl child of fifteen upon his hands almost before he knew it. Jing admired him for this impulsive piece of madness as much as she admired him for anything, but the others were a little dubious. 72 A RISING STAR. ''You can't afford it, Mark," said the old lady. " It's a serious thing. It's a very unexpected thing, my dear. We'll do our best together, but " "No," said Mark, "the thing's my doing. I took the responsibility and I'll keep it. I won't have anybody else burdened with it." There was a friendly squabble about this, but he stood firm. " The child has nothing," said the old lady, " but what she stands upright in." " I've got a pound or two," Mark answered Ñ a little ruefully perhaps, but quite unshaken. "You'll buy what she wants, Mrs. Broom ? You'll do it cheaper than I could, and besides that you know better." He stooped down and kissed the child ; and she, suddenly bursting into sobs, threw her arms about A RISING STAR. 73 his neck and clung to him. He disengaged him- self in a little while, and saying that he had his work to see to, went upstairs. In his own room he unlocked a little drawer, and there counted out fifty-seven shillings from a pill-box, which, though small even for a pill- box, was big enough to hold every coin he had in the world. " Two pounds a week," he said, " and out of that a pound to mother." He took up a pipe from the mantel-piece, and having regarded it with a linger- ing air, threw it into the fire-place. " You'll have to go. That's two shillings a week saved, pretty nearly. Knock off the beer at meals. That means fourpence a day. Call it four shillings a week. Will she eat more than that, I wonder? There are boots and clothes to come from somewhere. We'll see ; I daresay I can manage it." CHAPTER IV. The introduction of Miss Esther Reddy into the quiet and orderly household in Bath Row was like the bringing of a nnonkey into a con- venticle. The wheels of life, which ordinarily went so smoothly and with such well-regulated tranquil precision, were thrown out of gear, and seemed to whir wildly in wrong directions. The imported plague was upstairs and downstairs and in the old lady's chamber all at once. There was not a room of the house which was safe from her presence unless it chanced to be locked. Any small trifle about the place which took her (74) A RISING STAR. 75 fancy she instantly appropriated, and if questioned about it she lied with so much serenity and such an air of innocent surprise that it was almost impossible not to believe her. She performed a score of acts of witting and unwitting mischief, and was no more repentant for the one sort than she was for the other. She had an extraordinary passion for climbing, and brought poor Mrs. Broom's heart into her mouth on the very first afternoon, by presenting herself on the parapet of the house and walking there, with a house-brush for a balancing pole, in imitation of a rope dancer she had somewhere seen. She repeated the same feat upon the party wall, which was ten feet high, and to her great delight was made less safe to the foot-hold by having rounded bricks at the top. If by chance she hurt herself, as she not uncommonly 76 A RISING STAR. did, she roused the neighbourhood with piercing screams, so that in the course of a week at the outside she had become notorious. With all this, she had, when she chose, ways so winning and caressing that there were moments when each of the inhabitants of the house in turn was quite in love with her. She seemed to be without the faintest touch of shyness, and had a hundred quaint and old-fashioned ways of display- ing her momentary fondnesses which were drolly and delightfully charming. Mimicry seemed to be the one supreme pleasure of her life; and she mocked everything and every- body with so absurd a veracity of voice, face, gesture, and figure that it was impossible not to be amused by her. She was a prodigious chatterbox, and related her own small experiences half the day A RISING STAR. 77 long, embellishing them with a life-like mimicry of the people she brought into her story. Mrs. Broom was constrained to laugh at her, and to admit that she was better than the play. The child had not been an hour in the house when the sound of Herr von Xadli's clarionet drew her upstairs. She marched fearlessly into his room, as if she had a right to be there, and posing herself against the door with her hands folded behind her, stood there to listen. The Herr went on with his practice with distended cheeks and rather staring eyes, so that he made a quaint figure for her observation. When she had regarded him for awhile the little hussy sank into a sitting posture against the door-jamb and began to finger an imaginary clarionet, with cheeks blown out in ludicrous imitation of the player. The satire 78 A RISING STAR. looked so unconscious that it was robbed of inso- lence ; and the musician, stopping short in his tune and lowering his instrument, looked at her with a good-humoured smile. " So," he said, " you are going to shtob here ? " " I'm goin' to do what here ? " said Esther. '* Going to shtob here," Herr von Nadli repeated. " What do you say ' shtob ' for ? " she asked. "Ah," said the old man, ''you are very young. You should not yet ask questions. And you should know that you speak very ill yourself, then you will not try to correct your elders." " Yo'll niver catch me sayin' ' shtob,' " the child answered, unabashed. "Oh," cried the musician, lifting both hands in a humorous pretended dismay, " vot an ugly, vot A RISING STAR. 79 a dreadful, vot a fulgar accent I I am a foreigner, dear child, and to laugh at me is foolish. But you Ñ you are a little English voman, and your own language is a great deal worse as mine." " I'm sure it eeat," said the child. "Eeat?" repeated the old musician. "Vot is that for a vord ? Does it mean ' is not ' ? You must learn your own language, little girl." Esther looked vexed and a little bewildered, but after a moment she turned abruptly and walked out of the room. She was subdued for perhaps five minutes, but at the end of that time began those researches which ended in her being discovered on the parapet. It became evident next morning that Herr von Nadli's philological lesson had not been wasted upon her, for she seized Mark after breakfast and dragged him coaxingly into the back-yard. 80 A RISING STAR. It was one of this young lady's peculiarities to be perfectly familiar and intimate in five minutes with anybody whom she might encounter. She addressed Mark by his Christian name, and clung to him, and coaxed him as confidingly as if she had known him all her lifetime. Having once wheedled him away from the rest she began to tell him that there was an "old foreign bloke" in the house who had reproached her English, and had told her there was no such word as " eeat ". " But there is, Mark, isn't there ? " *' No, my dear," said Mark. " There is not." "There is not?" Esther repeated gravely. "O.K., I shall never say that again." " I shall never say that again," Mark repeated. She cast a keen glance at him, and he could see by the motion of her lips that she was imitat- A RISING STAR. 8l ing his pronunciation of the phrase below her breath. She walked away thoughtfully, and it was noticeable that from that hour she would stop even in her wildest bursts of naughtiness to listen to Mark's talk, until in a while she had caught his trick of speech and something of his accent. Her own native fashions were too deeply rooted in her to be changed in a day or two, or even in a month or two ; but she managed to veneer and varnish them with surprising rapidity, and was notably ashamed when the veneer cracked, as it pretty constantly did. She had not been long in the house before she discovered that she was in the midst of people who were associated with the theatre. This made a great impression upon her mind, for she had once been privileged to witness the pantomime of VOL. I. 6 82 A RISING STAR. Aladdin. The theatre was a place of actual en- chantment to her, and all who were concerned in it were kings and queens to her imagination. On the night of the first performance of " Stolen Splendours " there was not a soul left in the house to take care of the child, and she was perforce placed under the care of Juniper, who had a free seat in the pit and found no difficulty in introduc- ing his companion. The lights, the crowd, the music, the decorations of the house, the very scene painted on the front cloth, all moved her strongly, and she sat in a high-strung quiet and expectation. When at length the curtain rose on the preliminary farce she was bitterly disappointed to find the performers arrayed in modern costume. " Why, Juniper," she said, " it is not like a theatre a bit. They're only men and women." A RISING STAR. 83 She spoke in her natural voice, and there was some laughter, followed by angry cries of " Order," at which she sank abashed into herself She soon began to take an intelligent interest in the per- formance ; and when the low comedy footman sat upon the band-box, it was her shriek of delighted laughter that led on the house. Mark was there, seated in the dress-circle, a little pale and excited, as was only natural. He had a pretty hand for dramatic criticism, and was occasionally entrusted to represent his journal in that way. He had found himself assigned to the work that evening, and had been too shy to tell his chief of his own connection with the piece. He wished now that he had been bolder, for the public criticism of his own handiwork began to look like an impertinence and a dishonesty. 84 A RISING STAR. When the farce was over, Juniper stood up in the pit to look for Mark ; and having found him, nodded with a jubilant air to give him encourage- ment. The five minutes' interval made an awful time for Mark, and his heart knocked at his ribs as if it were eager to escape from its prison, and would fain batter down the walls. He made shifty some- how, to leave his seat, and to get away to the refreshment room for a glass of brandy. There he met his colleague from the rival journal, who contrived to shake his already dis- turbed nerves more than a little. " We shall hear the bird to-night if we never did before," he said. " The bird ? " said Mark, with a bewildered air. A RISING STAR. Ç5 "The goose," returned the other. "The bird of ill omen. They'll hiss the roof off." '' Why should they ?" Mark demanded. "Wait and see," said his colleague ; "it'll be the greatest lark you ever saw. I've just heard that ' Stolen Splendours ' is a cooked-up version of an extraordinary piece of rubbish that Wilstrop called ' The^Rightful Heir' two years ago. He wasn't allowed to use the title. He gave me the piece to read, and I give you my word that I never saw anything like it. It was just about as lifelike as a wax-work show in a country fair. He'd got a death-scene for his hero in the third act that made me laugh until I cried. It was as funny as * Pyramus and Thisbe'." The local stage-manager stood by, portly and rubicund, caressing his great moustaches. 86 A RISING STAR. "Don't you believe it, Stanley," he said. " It'll knock 'em as high as a kite. I saw the old scrip, and I've watched the rehearsals here. You never saw such a change in your life. The whole thing is turned inside out. There's money in it now Ñ and lots of it." He laid a coin upon the counter and tapped it with his forefinger. " Do you see that? That's a quid, isn't it? I'll bet you that, that the piece is a go, and a screaming good go into the bargain." '' Not taken," said the other. " We shall see. There's the bell." The two hurried in and took their seats apart from one another in the crowded circle. The curtain was in the act of rising, and Jing was on the stage already, culling flowers to form a bou- quet, and soliloquising about her expected lover. A RISING STAR. 87 Thirty seconds earlier she had been trembHng and half sick with terror at the wings ; but the stage fright was over now, and she spoke her lines with a sweet vivacity which pleased the house at once. She was in a summer dress of sprigged muslin, and wore a straw hat and garden gloves. Mark noticed, almost for the first time, how pretty she looked, and with what a modest, natural grace she moved. There stood his warm- hearted, sweet little heroine to the life. He had been wholly in love with the character whilst he had drawn it ; and now, for the moment, he was half in love with Jing, as its interpreter. Pre- sently on came Mrs. Broom, a grandmotherly, fussy old lady, excellently presented after the old-fashioned style. Then Mr. Broom, an oily scoundrel of an old lawyer, smooth, voluble, 88 A RISING STAR. persuasive. He was an old-established favourite, and all his points told. The house began to laugh and sparkle, and the anonymous drama- tist's heart beat with a feverish exultation. Then came on the lover, and the plot began to unroll itself swiftly and smoothly. The wicked adventuress appeared in the person of Miss Carrington, and the story strung itself at once to an intense interest. The first act was half over before Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop presented himself to the audience in pink, buff tops and white breeches. Mark groaned aloud ; for there was summer time boldly proclaimed in all the landscape, and there was the heroine in white muslin, and she had been culling flowers not twenty minutes back. Somehow, the audience let the anachronism go ; but Mr. Bonnington A RISING STAR. 89 Wilstrop had all the ancient methods, and in spite of the pink and the tops could not forget the crook-back king. At times, in the midst of high- comedy dialogue, his tones and action were re- miniscent of " Hear it not, Duncan ". How the poor dramatist loathed and hated him ! How he sweated at the ranting voice and stagey stride ! How all life, truth and delicacy seemed to wither out of the character under that pelting style ! The house thought otherwise. Mark was the only man who knew his own intention, and the rest saw a creation natural and plausible enough, burlesqued perhaps to the limit of the reasonable, but not beyond. They saw, in fact, an admirable representation of what Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop would himself have been in the circumstances go A RISING STAR. depicted in the story, and found in him a truth to nature of a sort. He was an eminently amusing rascal, with his overdone airs of John Bull virtue, and before the finish of the act the audience had taken to him hugely. The curtain fell on a strong situation, and the applause was loud and long. Mark's fervour went quite calm upon a sudden. All his doubts had centred round the first act. He had no claim either to the honours or the profits of his work, but he felt himself a made man for all that. There was more where that piece of work had come from, and the public verdict told him that his modest confidence in himself was not mis- placed. Nobody to whom the applause of a packed house is not addressed can hear the real music in its thunder. It gladdened the young A RISING STAR. QI man's heart and set his head on fire like wine. He made his way out of the circle and on to the stage, being known and readily passed by the box-keeper. Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop received him somewhat boisterously. " It goes, dear boy ! It goes ! I was trembling for it a quarter of an hour ago. There's one touch-and-go spot in it, but we're over that. We shall ramp through the rest like old boots, my boy." The call-boy's appearance put an end to the interview. The actor-manager gave the word, the curtain went up, and Mark stood to watch the progress of the second act from the wings. If he had guessed how much he was adding to the burden of his own anxieties by staying there, he would have gone back to his old place in the circle. 92 A RISING STAR. The mere fact of being on his feet, and the other fact that he was free of the observation of his neighbours, seemed to let loose the natural ex- citement which began once more to heave and surge in his mind. The voices on the stage sounded forced and unreal in his ears. He saw the paint and powder too closely, and live eyes seemed to look out of dead faces at him, when by hazard he caught the glances of the players. Everything was exaggerated, even the pauses between the words, which had at least the stage semblance to nature for those in front. Time grew longer. The whole thing seemed to drag incredibly ; and when Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop, in accordance with the business of the scene, began to laugh, Mark thought that he would never finish. A RISING STAR. 93 Jing made a pleasant contrast to the others. She had a fresh bright voice, and used it natu- rally. The rest were all old stagers, and had the clockwork regularity, the ponderous consonants and too open vowels of their schools. Jing be- longed to the newer order, who go to Nature for their models, and she made it her business to act upon the stage exactly as she thought she would have acted off it, if the real conditions had been equal with those invented for her. This sounds as if it were easy, but it is in fact the most difficult of all forms of art, and is the highest and the truest. She had not much to do just then, but what she did pleased the excited and nervous author to the quick. The bright voice and natural manner seemed to carry sunshine with them. 94 A RISING STAR. She came tripping from the briUiantly lighted stage with a silvery peal of laughter, as natural as the warbling of a bird, followed by the false mirth of those she left behind upon the scene. Mark stood in comparative gloom on the wing side of a large set-piece, and she almost ran into his arms. She saved herself in time, and the laughing face she had carried away with her changed instantly to a blushing shyness. Mark, accustomed to the half gloom, could see her quite clearly. She was in evening dress, with bare arms and shoulders ; and for the second time that night he thought how very pretty she really was. He had been Hving now in the same house with Jing for nearly three years, and somehow or other her charms had escaped him until that evening. The poverty of his living had given a cold austerity to A RISING STAR. 95 his blood, not altogether natural or wholesome in a man of his years. The t\'pical woman charmed his imagination ; but the real, living, breathing creature had had no existence for him. The bash- ful, pleasing face and graceful figure touched him for the first time in his experience, as they would have touched ninety-nine natural young men in a hundred. No more than that, but in the high- strung excitement of the hour that was enough to lend an accustomed glow and colour to his thoughts. " I fancied you were in front, ^Ir. Stanley," said Jing, after what she felt to be an awkward pause. Now, with all respect to Jing, who was an eminently truthful young person as a rule, this was a fib. She had been looking for the young man g6 A RISING STAR. about the house whenever the business of her part gave her a chance, and had been fearing that his nervousness had driven him away. But she had her excuses. It was absolutely necessary to say something, and she could think of nothing else to say. " I have been looking on from here through the whole of this act," said Mark. " It seems to go well with the house." "Splendidly!" she cried with enthusiasm. " It seems almost all wrong to me," he said with a subdued irritation. ''Oh, pray don't say that, Mr. Stanley," she answered in a wounded voice. " And pray don't take it to yourself, Miss Broom,'' he said, more warmly than he knew. " You were never a twentieth part so good. I A RISING STAR. 97 mightn't have known how bad some of the rest were but for you." At this Jing blushed and beamed. "You are really, really pleased, Mr. Stanley?" She held out both hands in a natural gesture of appeal, and Mark took them in his own and shook them cordially. "More than pleased, r^Iiss Broom Ñ delighted." Then the young man, who had never done any- thing of that sort in his life before, v.-as dreadfully discomfited; and the girl noticing this in half a second, as people of a sensitive nature will, felt her first shyness doubled. The pair of them stood there as if they had been suddenly caught in some act of baseness ; and though both longed to put an end to the interview, neither of them knew how to do it. VOL. I. 7 g8 A RISING STAR. Two people came with stealthy footsteps round the corner of the set-piece, and in a moment were recognised as Juniper and Esther. "You're here, Mark ! " cried the sprite, dashing at him and dancing in an ecstasy of pleasure and excitement as she took him by the sleeve. " So am I." CHAPTER V. The comedy was over, and had proved beyond doubt successful. At the final fall of the curtain there had been a great outburst of enthusiasm, and the theatre had resounded with cries for the author. Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop responded, and Mark lurked in the wings behind him with a heart as bitter as gall. For one second he had hoped that Wilstrop would have taken him by the hand and would have invited him at least to share the honours which were wholly his by right. He had made his bargain and must needs abide by it ; but nobody will think it unnatural in the young man (99) 100 A RISING STAR. if he felt that he was being basely treated, and was for the moment passionately resentful. The curtain, which had been drawn aside for the actor-manager to pass, still hung aslant a little, and Mark could see him beaming and bowing right and left with his hand upon his heart. " Ladies and gentlemen," said Mr. Wilstrop, when the noise of applause at length subsided, " I thank you from my heart for this flattering, this magnificent reception of my work. I own that I was not without a humble pride in it before I ventured to produce it. It has received now the sanction and the seal of an audience second to none in this kingdom in experience and intelligence, and, ladies and gentlemen, I am proud and satis- fied indeed. Again and again from my heart of hearts I thank you." A RISING STAR. lOl He bowed once more amidst renewed applause, and gracefully withdrew himself from the public view. Mark stood lowering at him from the wings ; and Mr. Wilstrop had a little diffi- culty in encountering his young friend's eye, which burned with so gloomy and scornful a fire that it took a good deal of effrontery to meet it at all. " You'll come in and wait whilst I dress, won't you, dear boy? " he cried, clapping Mark upon the shoulder with an overdone boisterous geniality. " We must have an hour or two together after this." Mark went cool again, and followed the manager with a sense of humour in his mind gnawing and splenetic Ñ a little harder to bear, if anything, than the hot racfe of a minute earlier. 102 A RISING STAR. "This man's a study," he said to himself. ''I must teach myself to like him. It's one of the betises of criticism that you can't really understand a man without loving him. I shall never get to love you, Bonnington Wilstrop ; but I may learn to know you, and one of these days you may come in useful." Wilstrop was not altogether at his ease ; but he had to remove the grease paint from his face, and to make his toilet for the streets, and he was thus able to cover all traces of confusion. " We'll give ourselves a good time, dear boy," he cried, with a more than ordinary unction of voice and manner. " We'll take a little bit of supper at the club, and we'll have a bottle of the best. It's a poor heart," he added benevolently, " that never rejoices." A RISING STAR. t03 Mark waited in perfect quiet until the business of dressing was over. " You don't want your man any more," he asked then, "do you?" " No, dear boy," said Wilstrop, with his over- done air of surprise. " I should like to speak a private word with you," Mark said. " You may go, Webster. Good- night." The dresser withdrew with a respectful saluta- tion, and Mr. Wilstrop clipped the founder of his fortunes by both shoulders in his own warm- hearted, amiable fashion, and spoke as if he were willing to surrender provinces out of the mere goodness of his soul. " Now, dear boy, what is it?" "You made your bargain," said Mark, "and I 104 A RISING STAR. made mine. We agreed for certain work to be done for a certain sum. You paid, and I have nothing to grumble at." "Why, precisely so," said Mr. Wilstrop, with an embarrassed air. ** And when the piece made a hit it was you who had the humble pride in it, and it was your work on which public approval set its seal and sanction ? " "Why, precisely so, dear boy," said Mr. Wil- strop. " The position was forced on me. I couldn't refuse to accept an unanimous call like that. My name was on the bills. There was no stipulation." " No," said Mark. " There was no stipulation. You have absolute right on your side. You don't seem quite to understand me, Mr. Wilstrop. A RISING STAR. IO5 It occurred to me that I should like to tell you that you have acted in perfect accordance with your bargain." "I'm delighted to hear you say so, dear boy," said Mr. Wilstrop, and shook hands with him to cover a momentary confusion. " I can assure you, Stanley, that there is not a man alive who can say that Bonnington Wilstrop ever broke the strict letter of a written agreement." " I conceive as much," said Mark, with consider- able dryness. " I am sure," said Wilstrop, struggling with unnecessary vehemence into a light overcoat, " that I have every reason so far to be satisfied with the bargain. The verdict of a first night audience is ver}' often deceptive. In the provinces, dear boy, it's especially deceptive. A provincial atidience is lo6 A RISING STAR. a bit flattered at a first appeal being made to its judgment. But another provincial audience may be a bit jealous, don't you see? Ñ and Manchester may upset next Friday what Birmingham approves to-night. But if the thing turns out what I hope for Ñ well, dear boy, I hate to make promises which after all may have no binding force Ñ we'll see. Perhaps you may have as much reason to be satisfied as I seem to have. We'll say no more about it just at present. Let's go to the club.' " I have my notice to write," Mark answered. " I'll join you there when I've done." " Good, dear boy," said the manager ; and so took his arm and swaggered off with him, shaking hands with fervour at the door of Mark's office, A RISING STAR. I07 and beseeching him to come down as soon as his work was over. Mark wrote his notice, dealing rather coldly and stiffly with the merits of the piece, and confining himself principally to a criticism of its interpretation. He gave half a dozen lines of warm praise to Jing, and did what was requi- site and conventional for those capable and worthy old people, her father and mother. As for Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop, he tried hard to do him justice, and was a little warmer than he might have been if he had been in- wardly less cold. " You have done already ? " cried the manager, as the critic walked into the club some three- quarters of an hour after their parting. "A new production, dear boy, I should have thought you I08 A RISING STAR. would have done more than that. . Ah, I see." He lowered his voice to a confidential whisper. " You knew the piece and were able to wTite beforehand." Mark gave no denial to this supposition, and the meal being shortly served they sat down to eat and drink with each other under the shelter of a screen which Mr. Wilstrop had himself re- quested the waiter to set up for the better security of his privacy. Now, Mr. Wilstrop was only an honorary member of the club, and enjoyed its privileges without consideration during his stay in the town. He had taken exclusive and patronising airs there, and there was already a clique of young journalists and artists who were ready lo resent his pretensions. To them the erection of the screen was the straw that broke the back of Patience. A RISING STAR. lOg They gathered in a knot and plotted in whispers, when suddenly burst in one Broad, a rotund little Yorkshireman, with a bald head and a red face of fatuous cunning and self-importance. Mr, Broad was the alternate bore and butt of society, and had a finely cultivated faculty for the discovery of mares' nests. He was always rushing in upon his acquaintances with the news of some prodigious discovery; and the fact that he had been hoaxed twenty times in a day already never saved him from being hoaxed on the twenty-first occasion of experiment. He was in a mighty pucker now, and in haste to deliver himself of some weighty secret. " Ah say, boys," he cried, before he had fairly got the doors open. " Ah've got a startlin' bit o' news for you this time," no A RISING STAR. There was a chorus of indignant, weary pro- test from the small crowd assembled in the room. " Has anybody here seen old Bonnington Wil- strop's new piece at the Royal to-night ? " The query promised something, and looked as if it might be turned to serve the general purpose, Ñ electric signs passed round, smiles and other facial hints which were lost upon the eager Broad. Mr. Wilstrop in his place behind the screen looked complacently at Mark, and gave a little sideway swagger of the head, as much as to say that this eager mention of his name was something of a compli- ment. " Everybody's been there," said one of Mr. Broad's auditors. '' What about it ? " A RISING STAR. Ill The bald-headed Httle bore was half astounded at his own good fortune ; people were positively going to listen to him. *' Ah've got the whole history of it," he declared. " Ah've just been drinking a glass o' beer with old Broom, th' actor, at the Woodman. Ah'm rather an abstemious man as a general rule, but ah don't mind taking a glass o' beer now and then if a gentleman invites me to it." " We don't want a disquisition on your per- sonal tastes and habits, Broad," said the man who had addressed him before. " The play's the thing. What about it ? " " This about it," said Broad, thinking to let off a cracker of considerable dimensions, but actually exploding a bombshell. " Ah'm told that old Bonnington Wilstrop never wrote a line of it," 112 A RISING STAR. This announcement went so far beyond the popular expectation that the men were dumb. The object of the Hbel went suddenly pale and rigid, and stared before him with a ghastly look. Mark flushed to the roots of his hair, and every nerve in his body seemed to tingle like an electric bell, but he kept his place in silence. " But who did write it if Bonnington Wilstrop didn't?" somebody asked. "Nah, look here," said Mr. Broad. *' Ah've got it all upon the best authority. The piece was written in the house of the gentleman ah've been talking to. He's had every sheet of the manuscript through his hands. He's a well- known member of the theatrical profession him- self, though I myself was never brought up to A RISING STAR. II3 think very highly of theatres and actors, and especially actresses." " Your opinions on these themes, Broad," said the man who had first addressed him, "are a treasure to be coveted, but we'll take them at an- other time. You know that you're bringing a very serious accusation against a public man. Let me ask you, sir, are you so certain of the truth of the charge you bring that you would prefer it in the presence of the person you incrim- inate? " Mr. Broad, who when out of danger knew no fear, responded in the affirmative. "Well, now then," said the other. ''I demand a categorical answer to a single question. If Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop didn't write the piece, who did?" VOL. I. 8 114 ^ RISING STAk. " Young Stanley," answered Broad. " Mark Stanley." This second bombshell seemed to explode with wider havoc than the first. One of the listeners, bolder than the rest, strode with a cigar in his mouth and his hands in his pockets to the end of the room, and there pretended to study an engraving, whilst he shot an occa- sional furtive look at the two men behind the screen. He saw that the eminent actor was livid, but of Mark's attitude and expression he could make nothing. The spy strode back again in a silence in which the creaking of his shoes was audible. ** Mark Stanley was in the house to-night," said one. " If the piece is his why doesn't he claim it ? " A RISING STAR. II5 "That's no business of mine," said ]\Ir. Broad. " All ah know is Mark wrote the piece, sir. Ah don't know where he found the brains to do it, for he's a sillyish kind o' chap, to my fancy. We've been in the reporters' room together by ourselves sometimes talkin' as serious as you please, and all of a sudden he'd laugh like a horse. Ah don't suppose I ever had a talk with him in my life without his doin' that." *'That is Mark's failing," said a lank, grave man, who had not hitherto spoken. " His sense of humour is stronger than his self-control." The clubmen assembled were a sufficiently amiable and genial set, and were guilty o( nothing vindictive in leading on Mr. Broad to the expres- sion of his opinions. But one of them, boiling over with internal mischief, demanded of him, with Il6 A RISING STAR. a grave face and in a solemn, minatory tone, what he thought of Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop if this amazing news were true. " Ah think," said the unfortunate Broad, "that he's a scoundrel, and ah think he ought to be kicked." "Boys," said Mark's voice from behind the screen, " don't you think you've had about enough of it? " He walked into the open room and faced his companions. " There isn't one of you who didn't know that Mr. Wilstrop and I were seated here. It's a shame to lead that poor beggar on in that way." The wretched Broad quailed, and all the colour forsook his cheeks. But Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop took a desperate courage at Mark's tone, and in his turn emerged from behind the screen. A single A RISING STAR. II7 glance assured him that his accuser was a greater coward than himself; and before the blood got back to his own face or his eyes had lost their strained and startled look, he found himself equal at least to an attitude of lordly indignation. *' It happens fortunately for me, sir," he began, rolling his r's a little more than common, " that I overheard your libellous statement concerning myself and my hard-earned success of to-night. Repeat that libel if you dare, sir." He shook a ponderous forefinger at the shrinking, half-annihi- lated Broad. "Repeat it, sir, in the presence of Mr. Stanley and myself." What Mark might say or do he could not guess, but in the midst of his bluster he cast a suppli- cating look at him. Il8 A RISING STAR. '' Don't spoil Broad," said Mark. " He gives delight and hurts not, and I wouldn't have him altered for the world." The actor-manager took further courage, and advanced on Broad with outstretching thumb and forefinger. Broad buried the menaced feature in both hands and recoiled behind a table. "Permit me, gentlemen," cried Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop, "to vindicate in Mr. Stanley's presence the character which has here been publicly aspersed. The facts are these, and I appeal to Mr. Stanley to confirm them. I wrote a play and requested Mr. Stanley's opinion of it as a friend. Is that so, sir?" he demanded, turning upon Mark, with an elabo- rate show of honest wrath. '' That is undoubtedly so," Mark answered, with a perfect dryness. A RISING STAR. II9 " Mr. Stanley saw his way to an improvement in the piece," pursued ]\Ir. Wilstrop, inwardly dis- composed and timid at the tone and measure of Mark's voice. '' He suggested in the course of friendly conversation certain changes, which after consideration I consented to adopt. Is that so, Mr. Stanley?" " That is so," said Mr. Stanley, as drily as before. *' I left the manuscript in Mr. Stanley's charge," said Mr. Wilstrop, dreading the other's quietude more and more. " He made the alterations he had suggested, and I paid him for his assistance the sum agreed on. Is that point also accurately stated, Mr. Stanley?" "You have not made a statement, Mr. Wilstrop," Mark replied, *' which I have the wish to deny." 120 A RISING STAR. *' You hear, gentlemen!" the actor-manager cried, inflating his chest, and looking about him with exciting eyes. " Is the calumny crushed in the bud? Is the snake killed, gentlemen, or only scotched? Have I done with it for good and all, or am I to encounter this scurrilous accusation in some new form ? " He was grow- ing bolder and more like himself every minute, and such a creature is a liar in good practice that a glow of honest indignation warmed his veins. He advanced with the threatening gesture he had before employed against the hapless Broad, who took a new hold upon his own nose, and dodged him round the table. " As for you, sir," he stormed, " you have backed your statement by the mention of an honourable name " A RISING STAR. 121 Very much to his amazement Mark took him quietly but strongly by the arm. " I would leave that question alone if I were you, Mr. Wilstrop," the young man said. The actor read a covert menace in the words, and cowered a little. " You advise that, dear boy ? " he asked, with instant suppleness. "I will allow myself to be guided by your judgment." " It will be better so, believe me," Mark said quietly. " Let us go back to supper." They left the knot of listeners and retired once more behind the screen, but the knives and forks lay unemployed, and not a word was spoken between the disturbed and silent convives. Wilstrop frothed out a bumper of champagne for his companion and himself, 122 A RISING STAR. and called in a masterful voice for another bottle. " No more for me," said Mark. " I am excited Ñ I am fatigued Ñ I am disturbed, dear boy," the other declared. " I stand in need of a little stimulant." The new bottle was brought and opened, and Mr. Wilstrop having consumed some two-thirds of it paid his bill and magnificently presented the remainder to the waiter. Then he took Mark's arm and walked from the club, bowing right and left with a stiffened majesty, to indicate that he had not yet forgotten the affront which had been put upon him. The June night was cool, and a northern wind was blowing. The fresh air and the wine in combination made the actor's head to swim a A RISING STAR. I23 little, and he was a trifle uncertain as to where his feet touched the pavement. In a minute or two these sensations cleared away, but when he spoke he was still under the dominion of the vine. He paused in the street and checked his companion by laying both hands upon his breast. " Stanley," he said, ** I little thought when I entrusted you with the result of my own labours that you would make it shameful in me to father them. I tell you, dear boy, I resent it. I resent it with all the forces of my nature. For years I toiled and struggled, hoped and strove. Toiled and struggled, and hoped and strove, dear boy, in vain. To-night for the first time I grasped the goblet of success, Ñ and then, dear boy, what happens? Your loathsome figure stands between myself and it. For your work upon my pla)- I 124 A RISING STAR. shall never forgive you. You sear the laurel on my brow. You poison the cup of pleasure at my lips. I hate you, dear boy. I shall hate you all my life." "/^ vino Veritas!^ said Mark. '' Good-night." CHAPTER VI. Summer and autumn gone and winter going. March, having come in like a lion, was doing his best to go out like one. Jing sat at the fireside, sewing, and occasionally glancing out of the window at the driving sleet blown slantwise by the howling wind. She was not alone, for Miss Delacour, of the Theatre Royal, sat near at hand, drumming with her finger tips upon the table with a vexed and dreary air. When Miss Delacour, of the Theatre Royal, was neither at work nor engaged in mischief, that vexed and dreary look was apt to settle upon her face, and would go far in a little while to (125) 126 A RISING STAR. spoil its beauty. Miss Delacour was extremely young to be attached to any house of pubHc entertainment. She was just between girlhood and precocious womanhood, and looking some- what older than her real age might have passed for seventeen. Her fingers went tapping on the table, beating a louder and still louder disordered march there until Jing took them both in her own hands and quieted them. " You're fidgety to-day, dear." " Fidgety ? Who wouldn't be fidgety in a poky hole like this? Oh, I'm sick of it. I'm sick of everything. I wish I was dead." "I'm sure," said Jing, ''that you don't wish anything of the kind." '' I'm sure I do," Miss Delacour responded ; A RISING STAR. 12/ and added fiercely : '' What do you know- about it?" "My dear Esther," cried Jing, putting an arm about the girl's neck. " Oh yes 1 your dear Esther I " said the girl, re- pulsing her. " Don't talk that sort of rot to me. Lave me alooan." There was a curious mixture of accents in Miss Delacour's speech. For a sentence, if it were brief, she could command a fair imitation of a sort of fine lady's voice Ñ the stage sort rather than the real perhaps. Then suddenly would pop in the broadest South Stafford drawl, at patch- work variance with the artificial tone. " Now you know," said Jing patiently, " how often you think and speak quite differently." " Think and speak differently ! " said the girl, 128 A RISING STAR. with concentrated scorn. "Who doesn't think and speak differently one time and another? Are you always the same, any more than I am ? " " 1 try to be, dear," said Jing. "You try to be, dear!" mimicked Miss Delacour. '* Now there I stop," said Jing, with a mild decision. " When you grow to be so unkind and so ill-bred as that, I know that you really mean to be disagreeable, and then I have to leave you." " That's where you've got the pull o' me," Miss Delacour declared, with a passionate white face. *' You can scratch, and look as if you kept your temper. I know. You've made a fool o' me fifty thousand times a'ready. You'd wait for me to cry and kiss and mek it up again. Well, you'll ha' to wait. I've done it before, but I shan't do it this time." A RISING STAR. 1 29 Jing, wisely declining further controversy, took up her sewing and resumed the seat she had quitted a moment or two before. The girl rose and began to flash about the room, now in mere hoydenish ill-temper, and now with the air of an insulted queen of tragedy. Nine months had almost sufficed to change the child into a woman. They had actually afforded time for Esther Reddy to blossom into Miss Delacour ; and Miss Delacour, having been en- trusted with a speaking part of six lines in the local pantomime, was in many respects a changed personage. The high-sounding name was a jocular gift of Mark's, and she had at first adopted it with eager delight, and had seen it in very small letters bn the bills with quite indescribable emo- tions. " Fairy Sunshine, Miss Evelyn Delacour." VOL. I. 9 130 A RISING STAR. Mark had carefully taught her to speak her lines ; and since she was very graceful, straight- limbed and pretty, she had gone through her business with as much success as any young lady commanding a salary of fifteen shillings a week could have a right to expect. Her figure had shot up amazingly. She wore long frocks, and having grown neater and more precise about her person than of old looked very young-ladylike. Jing went on quietly with her sewing, and took no notice of Esther's vivid movements about the room. " I know what you're thinking about," said Esther. " Do you, dear ? " Jing asked, with a calmness all the more provoking because it was meant to be conciliatory. A RISING STAR. 13! "Yes, I do," flashed the other. "You're think- ing I'm a beast." "I'm sure I wasn't, dear," said Jing; "but if you'll let me, and won't be angry about it, I'll tell you what I really was thinking." " Oh," cried Miss Esther ungraciously, " you can say what you like to me." "I was thinking, dear," said Jing, "laying her sewing on her lap, " what a pity it is that you, who are so pretty and can be so nice when you like, should make it so hard for your friends to love you. You might have everybody about the house in love with you." "Do you think I'm pretty, Jing?" the girl asked, dropping her sulky mask instantly, and beaming with delighted vanity. 132 A RISING STAR. *" Handsome is that handsome does, dear,'" Jing responded. " Oh bother ! " cried the child, and straightway- fell back into the sulks again. The experience of three-quarters of a year had taught Jing how to manage her. Miss Delacour could bear any kind of reproach but that conveyed by silence. The louder kind of complaint she delighted in ; and a battle she sniffed from afar, like Job's war-horse, with splendid anticipation. A full ten minutes went by, in the course of which she flung herself noisily into many attitudes of anger and contempt. " I know," she said at last. " You're thinking what a beast I am." Jing still said nothing, and there was a new silence. A RISING STAR. I33 " I am a beast," the girl declared then, half sobbing. " I think I've got the devil in me. I do, upon my word I do." She flung herself impetuously at her companion, and embraced her with tears. " It's never you, Jing, when we quarrel. It's always me. I'm always to blame, I'm always in the wrong." She was on a new tack in a second, and away marching up and down the room. " It's a shame ; it's a thundering shame." " Come back, Esther," said Jing, rising and opening her arms. Esther flung herself into the offered embrace, and having kissed her companion rapturously over and over again, declared that she was an angel, and dissolved in tears. Then the electric disturbance i34 A RISING STAR. being over and the skies cleared for a whib, she promised contritely to be good for the future and to display no more causeless fits of temper. Jing, with every appearance of faith, accepted her promise, and gave her plenary absolution for the time. Five minutes later the mercurial young person was singing comic songs on the upper landing ; and tiring of this in a while, filled up a pair of Herrvon Nadli's shoes with water and went downstairs again with a demure countenance, certain of the recognition of her handiwork but confident of forgiveness for a single coaxing word. She was the plague and the charm of the house- hold. The old people shook their heads about her sadly, and prophesied that she would make every- body's heart ache. Mrs. Broom was especially certain that the child had no heart of her own. A RISING STAR. 135 and that her momentary transports of affection were untrustworthy. More or less everybody shared that belief, but ever\'body loved her. She was alternately imp and angel ; the most irritating, most delightful, least forgiveable, and most lovable of children. She kept the household in perpetual feud, always having one half for her partisans and the other half for her accusers. She varied the state of parties with an infinite dexterity, changing adherents into enemies, and enemies into adherents day by day. There was one member of the household whose allegiance never wavered. Mark multiplied the scriptural seventy times seven into seven hundred times seventy, and was willing to carry the multi- plication infinitely further. It was no especial grace of Nature in him ; for even at her naughtiest 136 A RISING StAR. and most wilful he found something exquisitely quaint and pleasing in her. He naturally became her confidant, and was the first to be informed of her tricks of mischief and her troubles, both of which were beyond counting. Mark had a little superstition about the child; and though he professed not to attach the slightest importance to it, it had a certain weight with him. She was his Mascotte, to his way of thinking ; and almost from the moment of his first encounter with her he had entered on a career of good fortune. The very day after the discovery of her he had been for the first time entrusted with the writing of a descriptive article ; and though his chiefs kept their own counsel about the matter, they were a little surprised to find a member of their reporting staff a master of the tersest, purest, and most A RISING STAR. i'^*J pointed English. Mark had been working all his life with that willing slavery which is perhaps the surest badge of genius, to found and form a style ; and for an unknown man on a local journal he was something of a phenomenon. The chiefs worked the willing horse hard, and gave him chance after chance to display his powers. He asked no better, and never so much as dreamed of applying for an increase of salary. Sometimes on railway journeys he heard people talking about his work. Men of local standing began to treat him with consideration. If he had been a trifle less shabby he might have been invited out a good deal, and have become a man of social note. He had begun by the compositor's frame ; and his schooling had taught him no more than to read, write, and cypher, but nobody 138 A RISING STAR. could have guessed that from his speech or manner. All the chances of good work his chiefs gave him were wine and meat to him. His own satis- faction paid him better than money could have done, though when the money came in its turn it was certainly very welcome. His editor was a man potent in those parts, a man of unusual capacity, with a rare scent for literary talent, and an unusually ready and generous acceptance of it. He called Mark into his room one morning and bade him take a chair. " I am going to make a proposal to you, Mr. Stanley," he began. " You have been doing excellent work of late, and I am eminently satis- fied. I had a talk with the proprietors yesterday, and we agreed to offer you the post of special A RISING STAR. 139 correspondent. We propose to give you a salary of six guineas per week, and we expect that in return for that you will remain as completely at the disposal of the paper as you have been hither- to. We intend to extend our sphere a good deal, and you will have to move about. I want you to start in half an hour's time for Scarborough. What shall you want to take with you? You'll be away three days." " A paper collar and a tooth-brush," Mark suggested tentatively. "Buy a paper collar and a tooth-brush, Mr. Stanley," said the editor. " You can get what you require beyond them when you get there. You will be allowed first-class travelling expenses, and a guinea a day for your hotel charges. You may take that as the basis of your arrange- 140 A RISING vSTAlt. ment with the office. I suppose you accept the terms ? " Accept ? His good fortune half stunned him, and he was well on the way to Scarborough before he fully realised what had befallen him. Up till then he had been in a dream, with all manner of wild fancies of splendour floating through his mind; but now he began to settle down and to see what he could really do with his unexpected riches. He could treble the dear old mother's allowance. She could spend her summer at the seaside and her winter in some place where her bronchitis would be less trying than in the dreary north. That disposed of, and not disposed of altogether with dry eyes, his fancy began to play about his protegee. He was not at a very fatherly age, but he was altogether fatherly in his thoughts about A RISING STAR. I4I little Esther, and in his fancy he attired her in all the grace his manlike ignorance of millinery could command. He would make her the prettiest little creature in the town. That she was already ; but he would give the jewel its proper setting, so that all people should see its brilliance. " I'll hire a piano for her," he thought, " and she shall learn to play. Old Von Xadli can give her lessons. That'll be a help for him, poor old chap ! He'll dine a little oftener for it." He thought that he himself might dine a little better than he had been in the habit of doing, and though he was neither glutton or gourmet the fancy w^as far from being unpleasant. His daily dinner for many a month past had consisted of sausages with mashed potatoes and a hunch of bread. He 142 A RISING STAR. took it Standing, with an upturned barrel for a table, and it put him to an expense of sixpence halfpenny. Sometimes, when the past economies of the week allowed of such an extravagance, he added a sub- stantial slab of cheese which cost a penny, and on gala days even a half-pint of bitter. A guinea a day for hotel charges would find him more than that. He seemed to have found Eldorado, and there was no end to what he might do with his riches. He could save enough out of this present journey to afford half a dozen pairs of gloves for Jing. Her needle was very dexterous, but it failed to hide her shabbiness in that particular. How dexterous it was, and how untiring too, Mark had cause to know as well as anybody. It was Jing who had made his own poverty at all presentable. She A RISING STAR. I43 trimmed his frayed cuffs and collars, and by the stitch in time which saves nine had stopped many an incipient gap in the threadbare seams of his coat. He was a hasty and careless dresser, and if it had not been for her would scarcely have owned a button. Jing must be thanked in some way. He fell to dreaming pleasantly about her, thinking how pretty and how good she was, Ñ what an alto- gether pleasing, quiet, unobtrusive, household fair)\ But the one unforgettable thing of that memor- able journey came to him as he was stretching his legs on the platform of York Station. The scent of a cigar touched his nostrils, and awoke a hunger in him, as it always did. " By Jove," said Mark, " I haven't smoked for three months. It's no criminality or extravagance now ; I can afford it." 144 A RISING STAR. Mark ventured sixpence, and passed the next half-hour in supreme bHss. One does not buy the finest quahty of cigar for sixpence at a railway refreshment buffet, but Mark had never been able to be choice in that particular. He had never realised until that happy moment, when he climbed back into the carriage and lit up, how much he had surrendered. The discovery made him feel comfortably virtu- ous. No man objects to thinking well of himself. It is agreeable to know that one has been valorous, generous, self-sacrificing. The journey was a veritable pleasure excursion, and the work that grew out of it as brisk and enlivening as champagne. His commanders gave him plenty to do, and for a month or two he was here, there, and everywhere. Strikes, elections. A RISING STAR. I45 life-boat launchings, flower-shows, hangings, royal progresses Ñ there was matter for a hot brain every- where. He was one of those people who work reluctantly (for by nature he was idle and contemplative), but who when they work at all wake to a fiery ardour, and do it with every fibre of the soul. In these young days he had worn out none of his energies, and could bring a fresh eye to a hundred spectacles of human life which had long since grown banal to journalists of riper age, so that in whatever he did there was a certain bright and youthful charm. Still more good luck befel him. He had sent a little story or two, a little poem or two, and a small handful of social articles long ago to different magazines in London. VOL. 1. 10 146 A RISING STAR. In some instances he had learned that they were under consideration, and in others had received no answer whatsoever. Now there fell upon him a little snow of proof sheets and of editorial notes, to be followed later on by remittances, not enormous in amount, but fully equal to his own modest appreciation of his work, and wonderfully exhilarating. All this having come upon him since his adoption of little Esther was associated with her in his mind, and gave a sort of perfume in his thoughts. The things we believe are not the things we say we believe, or even the things we believe that we believe. Really, and at the bottom of his mind, Mark thought that his protection of Esther had brought A RISING STAR. 147 him good luck, though when he felt inclined to be open and above board with himself he derided the superstition. He made a little lady of her to look at, clothing her in accordance with Jing's best taste, and re- joicing her small soul with little gifts of fanciful silver brooches and trifles of mother-of-pearl and ivory, all of which she accepted and wore with the gratitude and modesty of a peacock. He employed old Herr von Xadli to teach her to play upon the piano and give her lessons in singing. Jing gave the young lady practical and constant lessons in deportment, by which on the one side she profited immensely and on the other not at all. Mark laboured to refine her English ; and alto- gether Esther had a little cloud of masters and 148 A RISING STAR. mistresses such as few young persons of her social standing could have hoped to command. She commanded every one of them, and in the long or the short run had her own mischievous kittenish way. When the pantomime season came round and she somehow got wind of the fact that a girl of her age might earn money as an extra, nothing would satisfy her but that she should have a place assigned her there. She was to have walked on, in an Eastern procession, in the character of a youthful prince, a personage who was naturally dumb upon the stage. But made- moiselle knew so well where her own advantage lay that she set immediate baby siege to the heart of the stage-manager, and in three days had con- quered that stern citadel. She became the Fairy A RISING STAR. I49 Sunshine, with a speaking part of six lines, and blossomed upon the public as Miss Evelyn Dela- cour. When she first pronounced her lines in Mark's presence the young journalist laughed like one of Homer's gods ; the homely midland accent so quaintly contrasted with the high-falutin sentiment of the verse. She sulked in majesty for three or four days after this, but by-and-by came back eager to be corrected. Mark taught her with his usual affectionate painstaking, and found her a pupil at once apt and willing. When she had once been thoroughly taught she developed a wonderful un- expected spontaneity, and spoke her words with so much nature, vivacity, and grace that in her little world of nobodies she became remarkable. 150 A RISING STAR. '* That little besom," said old Broom, " will make an actress. Now you take notice of my words, Mark. I've had experience enough to know what I'm talking about, and I tell you that we've gone to set fire to a stick, and we've started a rocket. If she plays her cards properly there's no saying where the little baggage may be by the time she's five-and-twenty." The old gentleman had certainly warranty enough in his own experience, and had seen so many youthful competitors, male and female, go by him in the race of art and life, that he might well be acquitted of any extravagance of fancy. He had not always been condemned to the provinces, and during his twenty years of fading ambition in London had seen the shabby little extra girl at six shillings a week grow and blossom A RISING STAR. I5I into a society as well as a stage queen, surrounded by men of wealth and title eager for her smiles. He had seen such a developed beauty wearing resplendent jewels on the stage, the bare settings of which would in her earlier days have seemed an incredible fortune for her whole family. Whether little Esther had that electric touch which, laid upon the world, commands its worship, was a very, very open question yet ; but it was obvious that the child had talent and had found her place. The old man babbled the romantic and ridiculous fancies he had seen justified in half a dozen cases, and the young one listened well pleased. When the run of the pantomime was nearing to its close Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop turned up 152 A RISING STAR. in the neighbouring town of Wolverhampton, where he charmed the natives with a round of Shakespearian characters. It was a part of Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop's method of warfare against the world to hire, purchase, and carry as few stage properties as possible, and to borrow or annex as many as circumstances would permit. Here a gun and there a helmet, now a bunch of artificial flowers and then a table-cloth, would find its accidental way into one of his property baskets, so that he would begin a tour with a few odd articles and end with complete sets. Out of the pantomime season the stock companies found everything except for the personal necessities of himself and Miss Carrington. Whilst the panto- mimes were running he had to take the smaller towns and to carry with hjm a scratch company. A RISING STAR. 153 and was often put to considerable straits for its appointments. There ^vas a Providence for him (and indeed at that time for all parsimonious and impecunious travelling managers) in the generosity of the big provincial theatres. He came over to Birmingham now in search of suits of armour for his Saturday night's repre- sentation of" Macbeth," and arrived in the middle of a matinee performance. He had just exchanged a lordly word with the prompter, who had offered him a respectable recognition, when he found himself familiarly hailed by a fairy in tights and spangles, with a crown of gold-red hair. "Why, here's old W il strop !" said the fairy, nodding at him easily. " How are you ? " *' You know me, my dear ! " said Mr. Wilstrop, smoothing his clean-shaven chin with thumb and 154 ^ RISING STAR. finger as he looked down on her, *' but upon my word " " You don't know me?" said the fairy. "Why, you found me crying on a doorstep nine months ago. You and Mark." "What?" exclaimed Mr. Wilstrop with a swift revival of his old benevolent interest, which meant as much as the old benevolent interest itself had done. " Are you the little girl I rescued ? " " There's my cue," said Esther, and tripped on to the stage as insouciante as if she had spent her life there. The actor-manager put up his double eye- glasses and looked after her. He heard her speak her lines ; and noticed, like the trained old hand he was, the spontaneous applause which followed A RISING STAR. 155 them. He was not a man who ran before the pubHc, and what pleased the house pleased him. The fairy came swaggering back again and passed before him striking the boards at her feet smartly with the wand she carried, and putting herself into an attitude of mock majesty. Then with a sudden gamin laugh she poked his well- clothed ribs with her forefingers. " Is that all right, old bird ? " Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop put a finger uiider her chin and turned her face upwards. " You are simply charming, my dear," he said. '' You are simply charming. I must really take an interest in you. You must come to London, my dear. To London." CHAPTER VII. Mr. Wilstrop pretty generally said a good deal more than he meant to abide by ; but the Fairy Sunshine was altogether too young and inexperi- enced to be able properly to measure him. She took his words in all seriousness, and talked about them night and day. London, of course, was no more than a vast brilliant cloud of fancy to her. There were people and palaces in it, crowds and crowds and crowds of people and palaces by the score. The Town Hall and the General Hospital helped her to some conception of what a palace might be ; and her young mind built edifices of (156) A RISING STAR. I57 Babylonian vastness. She spent hundreds of waking and sleeping hours in that huge and vague dream city. She talked about London with any- body she could get to describe it to her. She read about it industriously whenever she got the chance. The story of the young man with the half-crown who went there and became lord mayor made such an impression upon her that if she had been entitled to wear trousers she would have packed up her bundle and have started for the City of Miraculous Success forthwith. But being persuaded that girls but rarely make fortunes in business, she stopped at home for the time being, and fretted and pined a good deal at her enforced inaction. That everybody was infinitely kind to her, that she was treated a thousand times better than she 158 A RISING STAR. had ever merited or hoped, that all her naughti- nesses were pardoned and all her agreeable ways ungrudgingly recognised Ñ that, in short, her life was as pleasant as love and patience could make it, was nothing to her. She wanted what she wanted, and she wanted it at once. The people about the house hardly knew what had come to the child, she spent so many quiet, musing hours. The pantomime season came to a close, and there were no more crowds to show off to, to laugh at an occasional insubordinate daring pretty antic, and to applaud her half-dozen lines. The salt of life had lost its savour, and she knew of nothing wherewith to salt it. Mark, who understood her better than anybody else, partly comprehended the empty dulness of her life in A RISING STAR. 159 these days, but not even he could fairly measure the catastrophe which had befallen her. Esther's triumph had been a very small affair indeed, but to her it had looked far otherwise. Admiration and applause had spoilt her for the life of quiet which followed, and it is really not a word too strong to say that when they were taken away from her she was like a drinker robbed of his bottle. An empty, miserable, insatiable craving was upon her, which nothing but the one draught could satisfy. She was better off than the crowd of her panto- mime contemporaries, who, when the curtain rang down on the performance for the last time, faded back into their native neglect and slatternliness, with little hope of emerging from it again for full nine months to come. Esther was retained in the l6o A RISING STAR. company as utility lady, but for six months she hardly had so much as a line at a time to speak. She went on with the crowd, and was occasionally to be seen in the costume of a housemaid dusting furniture with a feather brush. She sometimes carried on a letter, or assisted a leading lady to put on or take off a mantle. It was something, to be sure, to show the gold- red hair, the pretty eyes and the subtle figure, of whose ripening beauties she was beginning to be conscious, even though she displayed them under conditions so humiliating. She knew, or thought she knew, that she employed the feather brush with a vivacity and naturalness which older and more experienced actresses sometimes forgot to display. She thought when she carried on the salver, and said " A letter, sir," that she imparted a A RISING STAR. l6l tone to the scene which her elder rivals had no art to give. She was not altogether a prey to vanity in this respect, though it came natural and easy to her to exaggerate her own importance, as it does sometimes to older and wiser people. She was a born actress, and had even thus early in her career a certain distinction of naturalness and sincerity in the least bit of work entrusted to her, which lifted her clean out of the rut of con- ventionality in which her compeers were con- demned by their native incapacity to labour. There were two or three glorious young bucks, who always attended the theatre in evening dress, and fondly thought themselves men about town, who, half in chaff and half in admiration, would give her a friendly hand whenever she came on. Her feminine elders were jealous of this tiny VOL. I. II l62 A RISING STAR. triumph, and thus accentuated it enough to make it at times delightful. If she had really known what the life she was leading meant for her, she would have been grate- ful rather than ungrateful. She was seeing the last of an excellent old school of art and at the same time the beginning of a better, and, being equally trained between the two, was insensibly acquiring the virtues of both. And beyond this growing night by night more and more perfectly accustomed to face the house, she was learning that complete self-possession which is the very tap-root of the actor's art. In that art the woman may be as self-conscious as she pleases, but the merest visible" speck of self-consciousness kills all. It is there that the amateur of genius dwindles before practised mediocrity. A RISING STAR. 163 In the autumn Miss Delacour was promoted to be principal utility and under study for chamber- maid and ingenue parts. Then, indeed, in her small way she began to know the sickness of heart which comes from hope deferred. She had to make herself mistress upon occasion of half a dozen parts a week, and found herself called upon to play in no one of them. If anybody had ever taken the trouble to teach her to say her prayers she w^ould certainly have prayed for some illness to fall upon the chambermaid. The chambermaid was a stalwart little mother of a family, some- where in the later thirties, pert and buxom to look at yet behind the lights, but away from their influence elderly, unattractive and untidy. She had a lubberly son, who was half a head taller than Esther, and who hung about 164 A RISING STAR. the theatre in hopes of the reversion of the call-boy's office. Every day's training and study prepared Miss Delacour for her work, but she was sick of her apprenticeship before it had well begun, and would have undertaken the part of Desdemona or Ophelia without misgiving. She was under study in turn for Maria in *' The School for Scandal," Mrs. Younghusband in "Married Life," Sam Willoughby in " The Ticket of Leave Man," Little Emily and the Marchioness, for Tilly Slowboy in "The Cricket on the Hearth," and for the Fairy of the Golden Locks in Byron's burlesque. She rehearsed her parts with fire and fervour in her bedroom. She gabbled them over in the streets as she rambled about alone. She went to A RISING STAR. 165 bed with them, and they mingled with her dreams. She stood at the wings and acted in her savagely ambitious little soul whilst that mother of a family of a chambermaid, or the stupid wax-doll of an ingenue, walked woodenly through the part which she could have sworn to infuse with life and sparkle. She knew that both of them had been ill enough, over and over again, righteously to abstain from playing, if it had not been for their wretched jealousy, which of course prompted them to do whatever they could to rob her of a chance of achieving a success. " Of course, they'd rather die," said Esther, " than give me my chance, the mean, spiteful creatures I " She broke out with this complaint to Jing on l66 A RISING STAR. one occasion, and was met with mild remon- strance. "Now you know, dear," said Jing, "you should never accuse others of being ready to do things which you wouldn't do yourself; and I'm sure that you never would be so spiteful as to keep anybody else from a chance of getting on." " Wouldn't I ! " said Esther, with a click of her little white teeth. "Just you give me the chance, that's all." Jing, who was blessed with a sense of humour, laughed, and the subject was allowed to drop ; but Esther nursed her grievances in her own small heart for months. It happened, however, one day when she was making the Broom household quite a purgatory, and was displaying a peevishness and ill-temper unwonted even for A RISING STAR. 167 her, there came a thundering 'summons at the door, followed by a shrill pealing of the bell, and this double call being answered, behold upon the doorstep a cheeky boy in a fur cap and a red comforter, who announced in a cracked treble, as if for the benefit of the neighbourhood at large, that Miss Delacour was to go to the theatre im- mediately. The boy waited for no question, but withdrew himself at once, and plunged precipitately into a game of hop-scotch on the pavement. Esther, hearing her name thus cried, rose in great agitation, and with wide eyes and blanched cheeks looked from one to another of the little family group with a startled, unspoken question. "You've got your chance, my dear," said Mrs. Broom comfortably. " Something has happened to Miss St. Clare. She told me last night that l68 A RISING STAR. one of her children had got the measles. I suppose it's a bad case, and the manager won't allow her to come to the theatre. That's what it is, my dear, you may depend upon it. You've got the chance you've been longing for, and I'm sure we'll all wish you well through with it." At this, the child got her first touch of stage- fright, and for a minute or two it turned her faint and sick. " I shall never do it," she said. " It's too big. They've no right to ask me to do it." "That wasn't the song of yesterday, my dear," said Mrs. Broom. " You'll feel a little nervous just at first, and if you didn't I should have no hope of you at all. You'll do it very nicely, I'm quite sure." A RISING STAR. l6g "We'll go down together," said Jing. "Put your things on, Esther. Mother, you might look and see if she's got the right sort of shoes and stockings. If she hasn't we can buy them this afternoon. They'll find the dress and the wig in the wardrobe." "Wig!" protested Esther, clutching her own gold- red locks. '' I shan't wear a wig." " No, no, my dear," said Mrs. Broom, sooth- ingly. " I'll see to your hair for )ou. It will just want a touch of the tongs, and then it will do lovely as it is." Then the damsel grew all vivacity and chatter, dashing hither and thither, and casting the whole household into amused confusion. After a wildly wasted ten minutes Jing got her away, and at the theatre it turned out that Mrs. Broom's surmise 170 A RISING STAR. was true. Miss Delacour had been sent for thus early to see if the dresses in the wardrobe of the theatre fitted her, and if not, to arrange them before nightfall. The wardrobe mistress was in a state of great excitement, deep in business, and very little dis- posed to attend for the moment to so unimportant a person as Miss Delacour. The whole of the great table in the centre of the room was strewn with dresses of rich fabric and splendid colour, a consignment having just arrived for the forthcoming pantomime. The wardrobe mistress and her aids were busy sorting, examining and counting, and the work was got through with more than neces- sary bustle and excitement and a prodigious feminine clacking. '' The manager doesn't send for me at nine A RISING STAR. I7I o'clock in the morning for nothing," said Miss Delacour, who knew at all times how to represent her own interests. " Oh, I can't talk to you for hours yet," said the wardrobe mistress, turning a perspiring, anxious face for a moment, and then going back to her work again. " Mrs. Jordan's got to catch the one o'clock train to London, and you haven't." " I was told to come here," said Esther sullenly, "and that you would see to me." " Drat the child ! " said the wardrobe mistress. " What's the profession coming to ? Every chit of a girl seems to think now-a-days that the house depends upon her." " What is it, my dear ? " asked the lady from London, noticing Esther's downcast and angry face. 17^ A RISING STAR. "I've got to play Henri in 'Belphegor' to- night," said Esther. " I've been under studying. The dresses won't fit me, and they've got to be altered at a minute's notice. I've only just heard that I shall have to play the part." She dilated with a pretty self-importance ; for it was the young lady's good fortune or ill fortune to look charming under any sort of emotion. Just now her cheeks were flushed, her blue eyes sparkled with ambition and resentment, and every line of her figure was full of an unusual grace and animation. The lady from London was a small person with a mincing cockney accent, a false voice, and a quick, fawning smile. She was scrupulously neat, in a black dress with masculine white cuffs and all-round collar, and wore her black hair clinging A RISING STAR. I73 close to her head and forehead, and bound in a scanty knob at the back after the early Victorian fashion. '' I think we shall have time to attend to the young lady, Mrs. Summers," said this personage. " We've only eleven more sets to go through, and it's always a good thing to oblige the manage- ment." '* That's your own affair, Mrs. Jordan," said the wardrobe mistress tartly. " If you like to risk missing your train it's no affair of mine." " Oh," said Mrs. Jordan, '' we can get through quite comfortably. Two hours will do every- thing." She spoke with a picked deliberation and was at constant wary war with her aspirates. She came out victor in "hour," but fell into 174 A RISING STAR. the trap spread for her by the enemy in " heverything ". The wardrobe mistress yielded, though with a very bad grace. The dresses were produced, tried on, and found to be much too large. Esther was dismissed, with instructions to be back again in an hour. In the meantime the rehearsal had begun, and by the time she had descended to the stage she heard herself called. The tragedian of the week was there already, waiting to put her through her work. He was a handsome, rather bored-looking man, who was getting on towards the fifties. He had a manner of great gentleness ; and when Esther took her place tremblingly beside him, he gave her a word or two of encouragement in so kindly and fatherly a voice that she took heart at once. It was one A RISING STAR. I75 thing to picture by the aid of an exuberant fancy the crowded theatre weeping and palpitating at her bidding, and another to stand in the chill grey twilight of the stage, with the empty house yawning like a great cave beyond, with all the velvet of the boxes muffled in dim wrappings, as if the audience were dead and under cerements there. She spoke her lines but stiffly and me- chanically. "Yes," said her tutor. "Very nice, very nice indeed. But we're a bit nervous to begin with. Try that speech again. Like this." She caught the tone he gave her, and taking more and more confidence from his patient looks, seized on it with her quick dramatic instinct and imitated it to the life. " Bravo ! " said the tragedian, touching her 76 A RISING STAR. lightly on each shoulder. "That's better. Keep it at that." She got back to complete ease before him, and the work went on with unusual prosperity for so inexperienced a beginner. " You've brought the words with you, my dear," said her tutor. " And that's a great matter. We'll run through that last bit again. Eh ? Just to get a little more life and nature into it. You're starving, you know, my dear. You're very wretched and hungry Ñ you're very weak, and in great pain, and you're trying to be brave under it all. Now, try to feel like that. Then you'll be able to look like it and to talk like it. Now we'll try again." They tried again ; and this time he patted her shoulder at the close with a warmer and less qualified encomium than before. In spite of all A RISING STAR. I77 the praise, Esther was a h'ttle dashed. There was perhaps more in the business than she had known of. It dawned upon her dimly that the part might after all have been a little safer in the hands of the mother of a family. For almost the first time in her life she felt doubtful of herself. She had to go back to the wardrobe to tr)- on the dresses, and by this time found the morning's work approaching a conclusion, and the ward- robe woman in a somewhat better temper. Possibly an empty flat bottle and a couple of tumblers standing on a shelf near at hand had had something to do with this amelioration. Mrs. Jordan was even more amiable than she had been earlier in the morning, and as she fussed about Esther, aiding in the trying on of the costume, her breath had a hot sickly sweetness, which VOL. I. 12 178 A RISING STAR. forced the girl to turn her head away. The lady from London had the habit of making affectionate little pecks and catches at anybody to whom she talked, and once or twice she caressed Esther's hair and cheeks. This, taken in combination with the odour of her breath, displeased the young woman mightily. But, with all this, Mrs. Jordan had such flattering words and wheedling ways that Esther submitted. "There now," said Mrs. Jordan, withdrawing herself in a series of little mincing ecstatic curtsies, with the fawning smile fixed upon her face, " I call that perfectly lovely. Now there's an Ongri for you if you like, Mrs. Summers. Really, dearie, you must let me ask you for a kiss." The flattery more than paid for the dislike, and Esther surrendered her cheek. A RISING STAR. 179 "Why, dearie," cried Mrs. Jordan, kneeling down beside her, and holding her at arm's length, "you ought never to be bur}'ing that beautiful face and fi^^ure down here. The x'oune gentlemen at the Frivolity'd give a finger a piece for a look at you. If you was only as much as in the front row at the Lane you'd have a dozen followers in a week." *' You mustn't talk to Miss Delacour like that," the wardrobe mistress broke in. ''I can assure you, Mrs. Jordan, Miss Delacour is respectable. She's living with one of the best families in the town." " Respectable ! " echoed Mrs. Jordan. " Why, Mrs. Summers, you'd surel\' never accuse me of 'inting that she v/asnt. As if a pretty xoung lady couldn't have followers in any number and l8o A RISING STAR. be respectable in spite of all of 'em ! How many- have I known as was like the snowdrops for their purity, as wore their diamonds and drove their bromes, for all that ? And that, you know as well as me, Mrs. Summers, is what this dear young thing might do if she was took in 'and." What with her own natural emotions and the vanished contents of the little flat bottle, the lady from London was a little warm, and being warm, forgot her warfare with the letter H, which had its wicked will of her, and came into her speech or went out of it without guidance or control. " I daresay," returned Mrs. Summers rather curtly. "You can get your own things on, my dear, and run downstairs again. I'll take this in a bit at the shoulders, and then it'll do very nicely." A RISING STAR. l8l Esther, with a head full of visions, obeyed in a thoughtful silence, and having reassumed her ordinary attire, went quietly downstairs. She had a frank repugnance for the lady from London ; but, after all, there was something deliciously exciting in her promises ; and the girl's head was turning with the intoxication of ignorance, hope and wonder. Even the promise of that night's success looked poor beside the prospects held out to her. There never yet was fair maid but made mouths in a glass ; and Esther had perhaps made more than her share, and was quite as agreeably conscious of her own personal advantages as anybody else was likely to be. It happened that there was another tyro being drilled upon the stage, a little but not much more l82 A RISING STAR. experienced than herself; and this time the task was divided between the stage-manager and Jing. Esther stood in a darkened corner of the stage waiting for her companion, when Mrs. Jordan came downstairs and instantly espied her. " If ever," she said, sidling up to the girl with an air of almost bashful friendship, ''you should take it into your pretty head to come to London you might call on me, dearie. I can always put you up for a night or two, and I'm sure I shall be very glad to do it. There's my card, dearie. Don't lose it. I shall expect to see you one of these fine days." All poor little Esther's repugnance for the lady from London was fast vanishing. She took her card, accepting and even returning her parting embrace ; and her foolish little head began to A RISING STAR. 183 whirl at a dangerous speed. To be seen, courted, flattered, admired, to have her own way Ñ she seemed to have been born for that and for nothing else. She was inclined at least to live for that, and did not so much as dream of any sacrifice which might be exacted from her in return. The lady from London being gone, Esther read the card, and hid it away in the bosom of her dress. It ran thus : Ñ Mrs. Jordan, Costumiere to the Principal Theatres, 303 Long Acre, VV.C. Ring the middle bell. Mark had a pretty stiff afternoon of it, though he took a pleasure in it too, and gave his services 184 A RISING STAR. with perfect willingness. He became a chopping block for Miss Esther to try her histrionic edge upon. She went through everything before him with no embarrassment Ñ looks, tones, attitudes, speeches Ñ till she herself was tired, and actually, by way of an unheard-of wonder, returned to the room she occupied with Jing. There she fell fast asleep till tea time, leaving the house in unaccustomed quiet. From tea time until the hour for the opening of the theatre she was in a condition of compressed excitement, as if she held any quantity of explo- sives within her, and were ready to burst and scatter at any moment. Every member of her little world was in the theatre to look and listen. Juniper was in the pit, Mark in the circle, and the venerable Herr von in the orchestra. The rest of the household were on A RISING STAR. 185 the stage with her ; and Mrs. Broom having nothing to do for one act officiated as Esther's dresser, and did her best to keep her cool and confident. The night passed in a torture of drear}' waiting, a deHrious moment of sick agony at the wings before each entrance, and a confused bkirred sense that nothing was going right upon the stage. The debutante was petted, applauded, and en- couraged behind the scenes ; but the house was languid about her, to her disappointed fancy, even in the great act where she had made up her mind to drown the stage with tears. The eminent tragedian of the evening got his customary call at the close of the performance, and he and Jing, as the recovered wife, led on the dibti- tante between them. They were received with the overflowing plaudits and wild cat-calls of a l86 A RISING STAR. provincial Saturday night audience ; but none the less, to her own mind, Esther was a dreadful failure. The applause was all for the others and none of it for her. She had dressed in Jing's room that evening away from the crowd of her ordinary compeers, and was found there crying in a corner. " Why, what's the matter, Esther ? " Jing asked her, entering upon this unexpected scene. '' The matter ! " cried Esther, rising with clenched teeth and hands, in a sudden storm of anger and self-contempt. " I'm a rotten failure. That's what's the matter." Anything in the way of slang she heard seemed to stick to her like birdlime. " Indeed, indeed," protested Jing, " you're nothing of the sort. You played the part very prettily, Esther. For a beginner, wonderfully." A RISING STAR. 187 "Oh yes," said Esther, falling back into her seat with a weary look of scorn. " For a beginner ! " Then she melted into tears again and went on sobbing. " It's all very well for you to talk. You never had a beginning. Your own mother says you were carried on to the stage as a baby. You've been at it all your life." Then again she arose with quite a savage intensity : "If I'd had a thousandth part of your chances, I'd act your head off." " I quite believe you would, my dear," Jing answered with absolute simplicity and sincerity. " Oh, oh ! " replied Esther, " you quite believe it 1 Much you believe it, don't you ? " " Rome wasn't built in a day, Esther," said Jing, seeking to be encouraging. " Then it ought to have been," Esther replied l88 A RISING STAR. with illogical feminine logic, confounding the illustration with the fact it was meant to illus- trate. She went home dog tired, and cried herself to sleep, feeling utterly disillusionised and disap- pointed. She carried her sulks into the next day and the next ; and the applause of her perform- ance, in which everybody joined, served only to irritate and dispirit her. It came to pass that for the whole of the next week her duties were so arranged that she had not one line to utter. Then it seemed to her changeable mind, which could never see anything the same colour two hours running, that she had been a sort of stage queen on the Saturday and was now put back into the theatrical scullery. It was bitter, insulting, unmerited, unbearable. A RISING STAR. 189 There was that mother of a family back again playing Sam Willoughb)- to ^Nlr. Somebody's " Ticket of Leave Man/' and giving a Dutch-figured representation of that impossible youngster to an accompaniment of shrieks of laughter from the audience. If the management had only given Jicr that part to play, what might she not have done with it ? How she could have swaggered and coaxed, and with what an adorable simplicity Master Sam should have been cheated at cards if his conduct had lain in her hands ! Whereas for the part that had really been entrusted to her, where was another at once so difficult and so thankless for a beginner ? The world and the fulness and fatness thereof were necessarily, and as a law of nature, all for igO A RISING STAR. her ; and when anything came to her hands which was not precisely what she wanted, she felt righteously indignant and aggrieved. Now all life looked like a dreadful thraldom, and for some inscrutable reason all people were her enemies. All save perhaps the lady from London, who had promised her a future which she felt really fitted to adorn. She looked often at Mrs. Jordan's card, and would indeed spend whole hours of brooding silence over it. She recalled Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop's laudations so often that they may be said to have lived with her. At last Ñ and the last was no later than the Thursday of that week Ñ she chose an hour when she knew that the whole household would be absent, and came home with a travelling trunk. A RISING STAR. IQI Since his own successes Mark had kept her so plentifully supplied with everything she needed that she had never had occasion to encroach upon her salary. When everybody else spent for her, the graceless little person knew how to be extrava- gant ; but when it came to spending for herself she was a petticoated little embodiment of avarice, as keen at a bargain as a Scotch pedlar or a Yorkshire horse-chaunter. Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop was notified in the advertising columns of the Era as " Resting," and his address was given in Salisbury Street, Strand. She had secreted a copy of the paper, and had marked Mr. Wilstrop's announcement with a border of ink so that she could find it easily at any moment. She copied it now into a little purse pocket-book which Mark had given her, Ig2 A RISING STAR. scrawling it over a whole page in her ill-bred up- hill-and-down-dale handwriting. The study of penmanship and needlework had been the two intolerable tasks to her, and she had refused to waste her energies upon either of them. She left the newspaper open on her dressing- table out of mere forgetfulness, but she packed up everything else she owned in the world ; and, without one thought of gratitude or friendship, she turned her back upon the house that had sheltered her, and the kind hearts that had given her love and patience these seventeen months past. CHAPTER VIII. She had kept the man who had carried her trunk in waiting whilst she packed, and when her pre- parations were finished she sent him in search of a four-wheeler. She knew herself to be tolerably- safe from the chance of being detected in her flight by any member of the household ; but for all that she was a little nervous as she drove towards the station. Arrived there she hid herself in a corner of the waiting-room till the train was ready to depart. She knew she would have been ashamed to be discovered ; but that was the only tribute she had to give to the unbought kindness she was deserting. VOL. I. (193) 13 194 A RISING STAR. She reached London early in the evening, and drove at once through the approaching dusk to 303 Long Acre. It must be owned that London scarcely came up to her dreams. The afternoon was murky, and there was something like a Scotch mist, not an actual rain, but what seemed like a dirty exudation from the sombre air. Between Euston and Long Acre there were no such palaces as she had built in fancy. She thought she had never seen anything quite so sordid and depressing as London seemed ; and if without shame or trouble she could have gone back again, she would have reinstalled herself instantly in her deserted home. Mrs. Jordan's residence was over a coach- builder's shop ; and when Esther had alighted from A RISING STAR. ig5 her cab and had rung the middle bell at the dirty green-painted side-door she waited in a little tremor for the appearance of her unexpecting hostess. The door was opened by a child of abnormally slatternly aspect, who was entrenched behind a great kitchen apron, foul with the accumulations of months of sen-ice. The child looked intelligent and docile, but was fearfully and wonderfully dirty, and she stared at the new comer through the tangles of her unkempt hair without a word. "Does Mrs. Jordan live here?" Esther asked in misgiving. The child nodded. *'Is she at home?" The child nodded again. ''Will you tell her that Miss Delacour is here?" 196 A RISING STAR. The dirty maid turned and disappeared as if the gloom of the entrance had swallowed her, leaving Esther alone and wondering. The cabman, when she turned to look at him, seemed to eye her suspiciously and disparagingly as he chewed the tip of his whip-lash. She had no umbrella, and the drizzle was fast developing into a rain. Altogether, what with the aspect of the house and the street, the oddity of her reception so far, the weather, the gloomy opinion of her expressed in the cabman's looks, and something in her own accusing conscience, she was nine-tenths inclined to cry. A voice from behind her made her turn with a start. " Well, and what might j/ou be pleased to want, miss? " Mrs. Jordan had descended in not quite the best A RISING STAR. Ig7 of tempers. The companionship of the Httle flat bottle, though it brought its moments of gaiety and comfort, imposed certain penalties, amongst which an occasional tartness and shortness of temper was observable. " Miss Delacour ! " cried the lady, suddenly recognising her visitor and breaking into a beam- ing smile. " I Jiam pleased to see you. Come in, dear. Come in out of the wet this minute. Is that your box ? " She saw with satisfaction that the girl was apparently well provided, and that the trunk was not only new, but large and well made. " Coachman, carry the young lady's box up- stairs ! " " There's a pub next door, ain't there ? " re- turned the cabman, who seemed to be of a 198 A RISING STAR. restful and reflective, as well as a gloomy turn of mind. " You'll find a cove there as '11 do it for a pint." Mrs. Jordan stepped to the door of the public- house, pushed it half ajar, and beckoned. A slovenly fellow emerged in answer to this signal, with a dirty clay pipe, a dirty red comforter, and a dirty cloth cap cocked over one eye. He appre- ciated the situation at once, and while Mrs. Jordan counted out the fare, he, with the cabman's aid, shouldered the trunk and walked indoors with it. Mrs. Jordan, mincing across the muddy pave- ment with a petticoat thrown over her head and shoulders, tendered the gloomy driver one shilling and twopence. The cabman would not take it all at once, but sniffed and gazed suspiciously. " What is it?" he demanded. A RISING STAR. I99 "It's your fare," said Mrs. Jordan. "A shil- ling for the young lady and twopence for the parcel." '¥Oh, that's it, is it?" said the driver. "It's tuppence for the parcel, is it ? That's what you call a tuppenny parcel ? Next time the young lady takes a railway journey tell her to bring the bloomin' railway engine 'ome. It won't hurt the cab and it won't fatigue the 'orse, and the legal charge is tuppence. Thank you kindly, mum, if you don't want any discount on a ready-money job!" " If you're impertinent," said Mrs. Jordan from the shelter of the doorway, ''I'll make you drive me to Bow Street Station." The features of the gloomy cabman were sud- denh' irradiated with a smile. He skipped with 200 A RISING STAR* an unexpected dexterity from his seat and opened the side door of the vehicle. "Jump in, mum. They will be glad to see you there. They must be reg'lar tired of lookin' for you by this time." He had an audience of a score already, and this promising to increase, Mrs, Jordan slammed the door of the house. Routed in dialectics, she had gained the financial battle and was content. Mrs. Jordan was wonderfully smooth and flatter- ing, and Esther had never been so carneyed and bepraised in all her life as by this hospitable and effusive lady. Mrs. Jordan admired everything she wore, every- thing she did, and everything she said. Had all her hairs been excellences, Mrs. Jordan would have found a word of approbation for each one ; A RISING STAR. 20l and if Mrs. Jordan had been fifty times as fulsome as she was, Esther's appetite of vanity was sharp set enough to have swallowed every compliment. ''What lovely 'air to be sure!" cried Mrs. Jordan, helping the girl to remove her hat. " And what 'avoc you will make of those eyes of yours, my dear! Ah, there now, you're blushing, and I'm sure it becomes you lovely." Esther accepted it all as her natural right. She had at last found a woman of discernment. She thought very highly of Mrs. Jordan's jud - ment. " Now tell me, dearie," said that pleasing lady, '* have you come up to London to stay, or do you think of going back again ? " " No," said Esther. " I want to stay. I don't want to go back again, if I can help it." 202 A RISING STAR. '* If you can help it ! " shrilled Mrs. Jordan. " I'll warrant they'll jump at you at the Frivolity. They'll give you five and twenty shillings a week at once." This was not quite the salary Miss Esther had expected her enthusiastic friend, of all people in the world, to name ; and her face clouded noticeably. "Ah, my dearie," said Mrs. Jordan. "You don't know what five and twenty shillings a week means at the Frivolity. There's young ladies there getting no more than that as wears their diamonds and keeps their carriages and pairs." Esther looked gravely at her with large inquir- ing eyes. "I don't see how they manage that," she said. A RISING STAR. ^03 "Why, they find kind friends, my dearie," said Mrs. Jordan, writhing her body like a worm, and smiHng more insinuatingly than ever. " There's gentlemen, sometimes the highest in the land, my dear, as takes a fancy to them for their pretty faces, and protects 'em, love." *'0h!" said Esther, with a round solemnity of tone. " That's how it is ! " She understood that perfectl}', of course. It was already well within her own experience. Mark had taken a fancy to her for her pretty face, and had protected her. He had not been rich enough to buy diamonds for her, and give her a carriage and pair ; but turning the matter over in her reflective mind, she came to the conclusion that only the want of means on Mark's part, and not the want of will, had kept her from the enjoyment of those de- 2o4 A RISING STAR. sirable possessions. When she had quite digested her thoughts, she made them over to Mrs. Jordan, who smiled and wriggled in a receptive ecstasy, throwing in a "Just so, dearie," or "To be sure, love," wherever an opening offered. " We'll have our teas now, my little darling," said the enthusiastic hostess. " And then when you've rested a bit after it, it'll be time to go down to the Frivolity and see Old Sedgebrook." She rang the bell for the dirty little maid, and gave her instruc- tions to put the kettle on. " I'm going to fetch out my very best tea service, dear, and in a minute I'll tell you why." Unlocking the door of a cupboard in the wall she produced a plateau of electro- plate, and placed it gingerly, as if it were breakable, in Esther's hands. " Look at that, my love." A RISING STAR. 205 Esther, observing an inscription in the centre of the plateau, turned it to the light and read : Ñ " From Pollie Grantham to Mammie Jordan ". The owner of the precious article stood smiling by with an air of pride and mystery, and taking the object from Esther's hands, set it carefully upon the table and drew a second from the cup- board. This was an electro-plated cream ewer with a gilt interior, and it bore the same inscrip- tion. Then came a sugar-bowl, and finally a tea- pot, both inscribed in the like fashion, and the latter was handled with especial care and rever- ence. The bulbous little electro feet of the ewer, the bowl, and the teapot, were all sewn up tightly in socks of wash-leather, as if they had the gout, a precaution taken against the 206 A RISING STAR. possible scratching of the virgin surface of the tray. When all four pieces had been displayed and examined in silence, Esther looked at her hostess with an air of inquiry. "You've heard of Miss Grantham, haven't you, fairy?" said Mrs. Jordan, with a mincing skip and a smile of most delicate meaning. " A lady called Miss Grantham came to Bir- mingham last spring," said Esther. "She played Lady Teazle and Miss Hardcastle." "That is the same identical lady," said Mrs. Jordan. " It is only nine years ago, dear, that she came to me not half as pretty as you are, nor yet a quarter as well provided. Now she's got a great big house in Bedford Square, and she keeps half a dozen servants. A RISING STAR. 207 Two footmen amongst 'em, my dear, with their 'air in powder ! " "Did she go to the Frivohty ? " Esther asked eagerly. " That's where she begun, dearie. She was a takin' girl to look at ; but she'd neither }'our face nor figure, my dear, nor yet your 'ead of 'air ! " Esther, fully inclined to be satisfied with herself by nature, became more and more content under Mrs. Jordan's approval. It had always been agreeable to know that she was pretty, and still more agreeable to be told of it ; but to learn that being pretty carried with it the surprising material advantages Mrs. Jordan spoke of, was just as novel and surpris- ing as it was pleasant. She was little more than a child yet, and as ignorant and innocent as a baby. Mrs. Jordan busied herself about the prepara- 208 A RISING STAR. tions for tea ; toasting and buttering muffins with her own hands, and setting two or three sausages down before the fire in a Dutch oven. Mrs. Jor- dan's idea of luxury was to have things greasy. The crown of the meal was a plenteous lacing of the tea with rum Ñ an innovation on custom and experience which Esther accepted very kindly. She began to chatter with the greatest animation, and amongst other things and persons mentioned Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop and his fatherly appro- val of her in the part of the Fairy Sunshine. " Ah, my dear," said Mrs. Jordan, warming into poetry, " that was the part, and that was the name for you. Fairy Sunshine you was. Fairy Sun- shine you are. Fairy Sunshine you ever shall be." She embraced her young friend after this outburst, and descended to practicalities. " You must see A RISING STAR. 269 Wilstrop as well as old Sedgebrook, my dear. If all that's said is true, Wilstrop is a particular pal of old Walker Mayhill, and Walker ]\Iayhill can make any manager in London do anything." " Why, how's that ? " asked Esther. " Ah, my dear," said Mrs. Jordan with a smile of profound meaning, " older and wiser heads than yours might ask that question. But in the profes- sion, my dear, there's a good many wheels within wheels. There's a lot as the outside public never dreams of, and wouldn't believe it, not if you was to swear it on your bended knees before 'em. If Walker Mayhill was to go to any manager in London and was to say, ' I want you to engage Miss Delacour,' they've got to do it." "Why?" said Esther, with a little flush of antagonism. She felt for the moment as if she VOL. I. 14 210 A RISING STAR. were a manager facing a tyrannical somebody who ordered her against her incHnation, and was vicariously indignant. "Ah, why?" said Mrs. Jordan w^ith an air growing mysterious, confidential and comfortable. "Walker Mayhill's the critic of the M. M., my dear." " The what ? " asked Esther. " The Morning Mercury,'' said Mrs. Jordan. " M. M.'s the short for it. A good line in the M. M. Ñ a real good line Ñ might be worth thou- sands to a management. Mayhill's a man as knows his way about, my love, almost as well as anybody. He knows what a good line's worth, and he know^s what it's worth to him, as well as to other people. He gets his own way pretty free, old Walker Mayhill does." All people were " old " to Mrs. Jordan when she desired to express A RISING STAR. 211 knowledge of them or familiarity with them. ''You mustn't forget old Wilstrop neither," she continued. '' He's away up now, and being as thick as he is with Mayhill, he can be very useful to you ; but we'll see old Sedgebrook first, and have two strings to our bow. It's about time to get on your hat and jacket. You'd better put on your prettiest dress, my dear, and make yourself look as nice as ever you can." The good lady helped her visitor, and acted as lady's maid to her, and finally professing herself eminently satisfied with the result of their joint labour, ran into her own room and returned in a minute or two looking as neat and precise as if she had spent an hour upon her toilet. The weather had cleared up since Esther's arrival. Stars were visible here and there through the 212 A RISING STAR. smoky atmosphere, and a watery moon hung over the Drury Lane housetops. They made their way on foot to the Frivolity Theatre, and Mrs. Jordan fearlessly led the way to the lodge of the stage-doorkeeper. Before making any appeal to that functionary she seemed to recall some- thing. " I ought to have looked in at The Three Threes, my dear. It's about the time when I might expect to find a friend of mine there." They went back into the roaring Strand, and found together the establishment she indicated. Mrs. Jordan's friend was not to be seen there ; and Mrs. Jordan, whispering that it would be unfair to come into the house for nothing, ordered two glasses of port. Esther hesitating a little, her guide rather fussily bade her drink the wine. A RISING STAR. 213 " It will give you a colour, my darling, and put a bit of sparkle in your eyes. Don't be afraid of it ; take it." Esther took it, and its first results were experi- enced in a disagreeable shudder. That passed, and she became voluble and confident, and felt fit to face armies. She was so bolstered by the flatteries of her companion, and so inspired by the stories she had heard, that she felt sure of immediate victory, and walked back to the theatre arm-in-arm with her philosopher and friend in a little tempest of high spirits. The stage-doorkeeper passed them without question, and ascending a flight of steps, they found themselves upon the stage. Mrs. Jordan asked for Mr. Sedgebrook ; and finding that the 214 A RISING STAR. manager had not arrived, bestowed her charge in the green-room, herself taking up a position at the wings, and watching thence the progress of a somewhat dreary farcical comedy which served as a curtain-raiser to the burlesque of the evening. Esther, being alone in the green-room, strayed about there, inspecting the photographs and lithographs of the popular beauties, who, in days new or old, had decorated the boards of the house. The Frivolity had for years been famous for its choice of pretty women, and legs were its strong- hold. About the walls of the green-room ladies with legs were everywhere, slim and buxom, short and tall, uiignoti and magnificent, all in tights, and all posing and smiling as if ani- A RISING STAR. 215 mated by the most joyful or most amiable sentiments. Miss Esther criticised this show of beauty with a growing self-satisfaction. This lady's nose was too long, that other's eyes were too small, the lips of a third were coarse to her critical and self-appreciative fancy, and the feet and hands of a fourth were monstrous. She put out one of her prettily booted little feet and surveyed it to point the contrast, and observing an oval mirror with bevelled edge against the walls, carried her comparison against the rival beauties a little further. She was smiling rather artificially to get a view of her own milk-white teeth when a door opened suddenly and silently, and a gentleman entering 2l6 A RISING STAR. caught her in the act and stood grinning with a half- faded cynical enjoyment. Esther had kept an eye through the mirror upon the door by which she herself had entered ; but the new- comer, walking through the pass-door which led direct from the front of the house, had come upon her unawares ; and for a moment Ñ but for a moment only Ñ she felt confused and foolish. The gentleman was rather more than portly. He was huge-hipped and bore a swagging paunch before him, and having sloping shoulders and a head disproportionately small for his body, he had a wedge-shaped or pyramidal look. He was spot- lessly attired in evening dress, and in his great white plastron of shirt front blazed a single diamond, which somehow assorted rather ill with his general aspect, and even seemed to A RISING STAR. 217 emphasise a certain vulgarity of face and carriage. Almost immediately upon his heels came a gentleman of a very different type. A tall, stately, white-haired, white-mustachioed, aris- tocratic-looking old man, who wore an eye-glass and walked with a painful affectation of youth and gaiety. He also was in evening dress, but wore a modest black tie and three tiny studs of plain gold. His eye-glass had an old-fashioned black horn rim, and was suspended by an old-fashioned ribbon of watered silk. He looked as tired as death when he came in, but at the sight of Esther's blushing cheeks and attitude of naive confusion he brightened up wonderfully. " Well, my dear," said the first comer in 210 A RISING STAR. a tone of bland jocularity, " what are yoii doing here?" " Mrs. Jordan brought me, sir, to see Mr. Sedgebrook." " Oh," said he smiling, with a backward look at his companion. "You want to see Mr. Sedge- brook ? And what do you want to see Mr. Sedgebrook for ? " '* I want to get an engagement," said Esther. She had not quite recovered her confidence in herself. The expanse of shirt front frightened her, and seemed to glare at her like a sunlit white-washed wall. The tone of badinage, too, shook her so far that it made her errand look ridiculous. She felt as if the gentleman with the diamond solitaire was chaffing her presumption. A RISING STAR. 219 " Oh, you want an engagement, do you ? May I ask what is your line, young lady ? " Esther had been thinking all the evening that her line was to look pretty, and to be paid in carriages and diamonds for doing so ; but these were ambi- tions she could hardly impart to a stranger. " I played Fairy Sunshine," she answered, " in last year's pantomime at the Royal at Birmingham. Last Saturday I played Henri in ' Belphegor '. I got very good notices." She had put these same notices in her purse. One of them, which she knew to have been written by Mark, was full of warm and delicate praise, and prophesied a future for her, while it read her a gentle lesson or two. As she spoke she put her hand to her dress pocket, but her interlocutor smiled and waved her to be quiet. 220 A RISING STAR. " Never mind the notices, my dear. What is your name ? " " Miss Evelyn Delacour," said Esther. The man with the solitaire grinned outright, and the elderly gentleman smiled with lifted eyebrows. They shrugged their shoulders at each other, and then said the fat man aside with a half bow : Ñ " An excellent name, your grace ". The Duke of Belisle, on whose family name Mark had stumbled, gave an assenting smile, but said nothing. The new adherent to the great house of Delacour looked on at the by-play with no understanding. " I think," said the fat man, in a deliberate self- communing tone, keeping a side-way eye upon his grace, " I think that Mr. Sedgebrook may be likely to engage." A RISING STAR. 221 The old nobleman gave a scarcely perceptible nod, and at this moment Mrs. Jordan opened the 2;reen-room door. She saw at once that Esther was no longer alone, and beat a precipitate retreat. The fat man called after her, and she came back curtsying with much humbleness to the old nobleman. " It was you who brought this young lady here, Mrs. Jordan ? " the manager asked in a business voice. " Yes, Mr. Sedgebrook," she answered, with another curtsy. " You want an engagement for her ? " ''If you could find a place for her, Mr. Sedge- brook." " Well ; what do you want? " "Oh, Mr. Sedgebrook!" The gloved hands were spread abroad in humble 222 A RISING STAR. protest, as if it were impossible to fix limits to the manager's generosity. *' She can have five and twenty shillings a week," said Mr. Sedgebrook. '' And she can come in a fortnight. She'll have to walk on. I can't promise her a part for months to come." " What, Mr. Sedgebrook," said Mrs. Jordan with a drooping disappointment, " not even at Christmas ? " " I don't know," said the manager. " There'll be plenty of time to think about that when we see what she's like." His grace, who had been fumbling curiously in his waistcoat pocket with gloved thumb and fore- finger, left the room at this juncture by the door leading to the stage. Esther's spirits were not so bright as they had been, and the manager's speech had closed the A RISING STAR. 223 door at least on dramatic ambition for the time being. "She's a bright clever little lady, Mr. Sedge- brook," said Mrs. Jordan, and would have flowed on into enthusiasm if the manager had not at once arrested her. " Don't you try to teach me my business, Mrs. Jordan. If there's anything in the girl she'll have her chance. You can leave that to me quite safely. She can come Monday fortnight. Good- evening." There was nothing for it but to answer this curt dismissal by an immediate departure, and Mrs. Jordan and her charge withdrew. The Duke of Belisle was marching up and down outside with an air more juvenile than he had borne before. 224 A RISING STAR. "Good-evening, your grace," said Mrs. Jordan, sinking half to her knees as she passed him. "Good-evening, Mrs. Jordan, good-evening," the aged nobleman responded, with a stately affa- bility. He glanced meaningly downwards towards his own thumb and finger, where lay a crisp-looking bit of paper folded into a very small compass. " Oh, your grace ! " cried Mrs. Jordan, curtsy- ing lower than ever. The crisp little bit of paper changed hands. "My dear," whispered Mrs. Jordan as they came into the street, "your fortune's made." " I don't know about that," said Esther, pouting. " I'm not going to wait for more than a fortnight, and then walk on " Ñ with an accent of intense disdain Ñ "amongst a lot of squinting extras. I A RISING STAR. 225 don't want to stand to be stared at. I want some- thing to do. I want to get on. I shall go and see Mr. Wilstrop in the morning." "So do, by all means, dearie," said Mrs. Jordan, fingering the crisp paper in her pocket, and think- ing this first flake the precursor of a snow-storm. " As I said before we came out, dear, it's a good thing to have two strings to your bow, and even if Wilstrop's good for nothing you can make your fortune at the Friv." She did not return directly homewards, but led the way back to The Three Threes, in expecta- tion, as she was careful to tell Esther, that her friend had turned up there in the meantime. The friend was still absent ; and Mrs. Jordan, unwilling to leave the house shabbily, ordered two more glasses of port. VOL. I. 15 226 A RISING STAR. Esther flatly refusing to touch the wine, Mrs. Jordan drank it for her, so that it might not be wasted, and so took her guest home, entertaining her there and by the way with such hints of future splendour that the girl's senses were quite dazzled. END OF VOL. I. VOL. II. CHAPTER IX. Esther paid her proposed visit to Mr. Bonning- ton Wilstrop, and set that gentleman thinking more seriously than she could have fancied pos- sible. Mr. Wilstrop had severed his connection with Miss Carrington under circumstances pecu- liarly vexatious. The time had been when a leading lady would absorb herself wholly in her business, would de- vote herself completely to the study of those great poets and humorists who make the glory VOL. II, I 2 A RISING STAR. of the British stage, and would leave her business affairs in the hands of her manager. Those times had been prosperous for Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop. The leading lady took what Mr. Wilstrop thought a moderately fair share of her own earnings, and was satisfied. Now that agreeable state of things seemed to have vanished altogether. Miss Carrington had positively cast doubts upon his probity by employ- ing a man to count the house. She had insisted upon having the local acting manager's returns placed night by night before her, and Mr. Wil- strop knew that this unladylike freak robbed him of something very like a thousand pounds per annum. He had been unwillingly compelled to be in- dignant at his partner's want of confidence, and A RISING STAR. 3 with her consent had broken his agreement with her. Age and experience, as he was beginning to discover in his own person, were no longer so highly valued in the profession as they had been. The lady who had played Juliet for thirty years was deposed, in favour of some young chit of twenty who had nothing perhaps but a physical fitness for the part. Fortunes, positive fortunes, were being made by girls who had only just escaped from their teens ; but these lucky young persons were so well taken care of already that Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop saw no chance whatever for himself amongst them. Mr. Wilstrop had been brooding long upon this question, and Esther's visit inspired him with a 4 A RISING STAR. glorious idea ; an idea which might, if followed out, lead to a great deal of money, and could by no possibility cost him anything. He was so placed that he could, without diffi- culty, secure the girl a London engagement at a salary at which she could live, and live very well. He pooh-poohed the Frivolity business, and assured Esther gravely that if she wished to rise to real eminence in the profession she must shun burlesque. Now supposing that the girl displayed any apti- tude, she might with her pretty face and taking manner be worth exploiting in a year or two. If she turned out well, if she turned out even mode- rately well in London, she would be good enough to make a splash with in the country. Mr. Wilstrop was a very old stager, and what A RISING STAR. 5 he did not know about his own business was hardly worth any man's knowing. A pretty girl with the mere tricks of the business and a little natural talent would be likely, he thought, to go far in his hands. In the meantime he was fatherly all over, and was determined to remain so. He could do a thousand costless little kindnesses which would knit Esther to him in gratitude. He was shrewd in his way, but like so many other men he was deceived by his own form of humbug. He mouthed gratitude and kindliness until he believed them real. He was actually cheated sometimes, by reason of this flaw in his otherwise perfect business character. The October day was bright, and Mr. Wilstrop, assuming his hat and gloves, left his room in Salis- bury Street, Strand, and walked thoughtfully to- 6 A Rising star. wards the Temple. He was not so deep sunk in contemplation as to be utterly oblivious of his clothes. He was going to a suburban race meeting that afternoon, and was already attired in character Ñ white hat, grey frock-coat, tight over-fitting trousers of a drabbish hue, white spatterdashes, bird's-eye scarf and horse-shoe pin. He walked with his knees a little wider apart than common, as if he had been used to horses from his cradle. His field glasses were already slung over his shoulder, and the tall white hat was cocked with a rakish air. He did not often permit himself to smoke in the streets Ñ a practice which was rather against his old-fashioned habits Ñ but the character of sporting gentlemen seemed incomplete until he had a cigar A RISING STAR. 7 in his mouth, cocked at the proper angle and de- corated in the middle with a little white and gold paper band. He made his way to King's Bench Walk and knocked there at a door on the ground floor. A Doy in buttons answered and took in his card. A soft tenorino voice from within called : Ñ " Ages, my dear Wilstrop, ages. Come in, my dear fellow. How many ages since I saw you last?" The owner of the tenorino voice was Mr. Walker Mayhill, the eminent dramatic critic of the Morn- ing Mercury. He sat in the midst of a good-sized apartment, furnished in the best style of Wardour Street, with Wardour Street oak, and Wardour Street oriental china, Wardour Street arms and armour, Wardour Street stamped leather, Wardour 8 A RISING STAR. Street Flemish tapestr)', and Wardour Street old English brass. Mr. Mayhill wore a lovely dressing-gown of claret-coloured plush, with navy-blue satin cuffs, and collar and frogs, and a bell-rope tie of the same colour. His feet were encased in claret- coloured gold-embroidered Turkish slippers. He wore a single diamond on the little finger of the left hand, and in days when that decoration was new to I him had formed a habit, which lingered yet, of caresi- ing the ends of his small moustache to show it. He had a Shakespearian forehead and a lustrous bald head, with the merest half-ring of hair en- circling it from ear to ear. He was rather a diminutive man, and had lady-like manners, which were in keeping with the tenorino voice and the inignon delicacy of his hands and feet. A RISING STAR. 9 " Dear Wilstrop," he said, .stretching out a negligently friendly hand. '* So glad to see you. So really glad to see you. Where have you been these years, my darling boy ? " " I've been going up and down in the world, dear boy," said Mr. Wilstrop, with a voice and face of benevolently weary philosophy, " and roaming to and fro in it." He was bound to take a somewhat literary tone with a man of Mr. Mayhill's standing ; and a Scriptural quotation, even if not quite accurately turned, was at least respectable. " Sit down, Wilstrop, sit down," said the eminent critic. He could not help a little touch of patron- age, but he was graceful, cordial, and mellifluous, and he would have been a hard man who would have taken offence at him. He seemed to listen 10 A RISING STAR. with an air of pleased attention to his own h'ght- tenor-toned voice, and he had an air of putting up his eye-glass as if suddenly bent upon some enter- prise, and then dropping it again as if the enter- prise were not worth while. " For my own part I don't drink, but I minister to the weakness of my fellow-creatures. You'll find Pommery Greno in pints in the old place in the buffet." Mr. Wilstrop, who had already seated him- self, rose with a smiling alacrity at this intelligence. " The buffet's locked, dear boy," he said. "Where's the key ? " "Ah, the key! The key!" said Mr. Walker Mayhill. " Robert ! " The boy in buttons appeared respectfully at the curtained door. A RISING STAR. Il "The key," said Mr. Mayhill. "The key of the buffet, Robert." Robert knew his part, and was letter-perfect in it from old practice. "The key, sir?" He feigned to reflect a little, and scratched his elbow. " Mrs. Bonny must have took it away this morning, sir. She's constantly a-forgetting something, Mrs. Bonny is, sir." He spoke almost with an air of injury, as if the enforced stint of his employer's hospitality reflected upon himself "Is that so, Robert?" asked Mr. Mayhill. " Well, you may go. You'll have to put up with whisky and soda, Bonnington. You'll find them on the sideboard." In effect Mr. Wilstrop found a melancholy little desert pond of whisky at the bottom of a stately 12 A RISING STAR. cut-glass decanter, and a little dispirited soda water in a wire-bound gazogene. He concocted a funereal beverage for himself from these materials, and setting it down between Mr. Mayhill and him- self, took his seat at the writing desk in the middle of the apartment " Don't spare the bottle, Wilstrop," said the eminent critic. "1 am like Eccles, with a difference. I don't do it myself, but I like to see the young ones at it. What brings you here, my darling boy ? If there's anything in the wide world that I can do for you, you know you can command me." " Well, my dear boy," said Mr. Wilstrop, dis- tastefully toying with his liquor, " I came down here to ask a favour," " Anything up to a hundred, my dear Wilstrop," responded the critic. A RISING STAR. I3 He knew that Wilstrop could have bought him ten times over, and this made the offer easy. " No, it isn't money, dear boy, it isn't money," the actor-manager responded. It was curious, but each man knew the other from skin to soul, and each thought himself un- fathomed and unfathomable. The critic took a white chrysanthemum from a Delft jar that stood upon the table, and putting it delicately to his nostrils, sniffed at its scentless petals with an air of refined joy. " What is it, old fellow ? Tell me. You really must tell me." " I am interested," said Mr. Bonnington Wil- strop, " in a little lady." The critic stuck the chrysanthemum behind his 14 A RISING STAR. ear as if it had been a pen, and shook his head at his visitor with an air of pleasant waggery. " And you want an engagement for her ? " he asked. " Yes, dear boy," said Wilstrop, with a bearing of utter candour, as if he would not have deceived the other for the world. " I want an engagement for her." "Ye Ñ es," said the critic. " She hasn't a hump?" " Lithe as a lily, dear boy." "Doesn't squint?" "Prettiest girl in England, bar none." " I count your interest by your enthusiasm., darling boy," said the critic, as if he were a kindly Mentor, who forgave the other something. " Well, what does she want? Is she expkrimentee Ñ the little lady?" "A few months in the country," Wilstrop an- A RISING STAR. I5 svvered. " Speaking part in the panto, at the Royal, Birmingham." "That's the sort of thing," said the critic. "I daresay I can manage. Glynne will have a place for her." '' The very thing," cried Wilstrop. " The Sheri- dan's the house for her." "Well," asked Mr. Walker Mayhill, ''what salary shall we say ? " "Two quid a week to begin with," said Wilstrop tentatively. " Call it fifty shillings," said the critic, who knew how to be generous with other people's money. "Anything more? " " Nothing more," said Wilstrop. " Delighted to be of service, Mr. Wilstrop. Charmed, Delighted, really, I think you may l6 A RISING STAR. reckon that little commission accomplished. You shall have the answer this evening at your chambers. I'll send round Robert with a line." About half an hour later Mr. Herbert Glynne, the lessee and manager of the Sheridan Theatre in the Strand, was closeted with the acting manager in shrewd discussion of ways and means. Mr. Glynne was an ambitious and capable come- dian, who, after twenty years of hard work in the provinces and in town, had scraped together money enough to rent a London theatre. He had not been very fortunate, for though everybody con- fessed that everything done at the Sheridan was admirable, he had failed to hit the public between wind and water, and found his limited capital rather diminished than increased at the end of two years of enterprise and the beginning of the third. A RISING STAR. I7 On the stage his style of comedy was crisp and quick, but in the transactions of everyday life he was so cautious and hesitating that his admirers sometimes failed to recognise him off the boards. "Cut down everything," said Francis, his acting manager, " and we can't do it a penny under three hundred and seventy pounds a week. That reckons no salary for you at all, and you ought to count for thirty pounds a week. Call it four hundred at the lowest figure." " That," said Glynne reflectively, " means nearly seventy pounds a night. It'll take a lot of pulling in in these times." " It'll take a lot of pulling in," said the acting manager. The two sat regarding each other for a minute VOL. II. 2 S A RISING STAR. with some Inquietude, the acting manager nibbling at a quill and his superior gnawing at his nails. " We might spread the production over forty weeks instead of twenty," said the acting manager. " The last piece ran nearly a year." " We may do it, but we can't count on that," said his chief. " I tell you what it is, Francis," he added, rising and walking up and down the littered little room, " this season makes or breaks me. It's sink or swim this time. Come in." A messenger entered with a letter. " Herbert Glynne, Esq., Sheridan Theatre. M Ñ m Ñ m. Look at that, Francis. Wait out- side," to the messenger. He threw the letter over, and Francis having read it looked up gravely. " It isn't much," he said, " fifty shillings a week. A RISING STAR. ig You can't afford to disoblige Mayhill. ' A charm- ing young lady who has already had some experi- ence.' You can't afford to disoblige him. You can't afford it." " My dear boy," cried the manager, in a sort of desperation, " it's blackmail ! It's cruel, abomin- able blackmail ! I don't want the girl. I have no place for her. I'm at the very end of my tether. D n it all, they oughtn't to blackmail a poor beggar like me! Why don't they go for Sedgebrook, with Belisle at his back ? " " Sedgebrook isn't worth his while," said the acting manager, with a bitter tranquillity. " Bel- isle's got three hundred thousand a year, and Mr. Walker Mayhill can't snub him as he might snub you. You don't want one of those soapy, kind, little, regretful notices. ' So sorry that 20 A RISING STAR. y^oii failed. A piece of excellent merit, but unhappily a trifle dull.' After all you're only paying for an advertisement in a part of the paper where you couldn't get a line for money ! " Long experience had taught Mr. Francis philo- sophy. The manager sat down wrathfully and wrote : Ñ " Mr. Herbert Glynne presents his compliments to Mr. Walker Mayhill, and will be only too happy to oblige him. If the young lady will call at the office of the theatre at eleven o'clock to-morrow morning she can sign her engagement." CHAPTER X. On the day on which Esther, for the second time in her limited experience, ran away from home, a horticultural show was being held at Edgbaston. Mark's professional ticket admitted two, and there had been some talk of Esther joining him at the office at a fixed hour and going on with him to the exhibition. Juniper, who had a carefully trained show of yellow marguerites and white carnations there, was certain of a prize, and the whole household took a mild interest in his enthusiasm. This fact made it all the more surprising that Esther stayed away. (21) 22 A RISING STAR. Mark waited till the very limit of his time, and then went on without her, naturally suspecting nothing, but with an idea that he might find the child there in the dwarf's company. He found Juniper strutting about the tents in great pride over a second prize in one class and an honour- able mention in another ; but the little man had no news of Esther beyond the fact that she had petulantly declined to accompany him. That, in the experience of her protector, was by no means a new thing, and excited neither fear nor wonder in his mind. Mark, having other work late that night, dined in town, and did not reach home till the small hours of the morning. He was walking along towards the door of the house, swinging the latch key in his hand, when he observed that a A RISING STAR. 23 light was burning in the hall. This puzzled him a little, and he crossed the street with a quickened pace. Jing and her mother met him in the hall, and he saw at a glance that they had both been crying. *' What's the matter?" he asked solicitously. Mrs. Broom burst out crying anew, and Jing with a trembling voice responded that Esther had run away. "Run away!" cried Mark. "Impossible! What had the child to run away from ? " " Nothing but kindness," the old lady sobbed. " I'm sure of that, Mr. Stanley. But the ungrate- ful little hussy's gone. She has taken everything that belonged to her, down to her very thimble. Herr von Nadli saw her driving in a four-wheeler past Day's Concert Hall with a great new trunk 24 A RISING STAR. on the top of the cab. The wicked little creature's run away, Mr. Stanley, and I'm not going to break my heart about her ! " Then she cried more piteously than ever, and went back into the sitting-room. Things looked curiously blank to Mark. He had never realised, until that moment, what the child's presence in the house had meant to him. He was at once incredulous and angry ; and was as yet hardly conscious of the strange void in the midst of which these sentiments existed. " There's some mistake," he said stupidly to "There is no mistake, Mr. Stanley," she answered. " She has run away. It's very un- grateful and very wicked, after all you have done for her." A RISING STAR. 25 Jing thought nothing of her own labour and patience ; but in this, as in all other matters, Mark was to her a hero. She had worshipped his manly kindness, and could hardly have thought more highly of him if he had been a shining angel. The old Herr von Nadli, Juniper, and Mr. Broom were all seated gravel)' in the little front chamber, as if they were in attendance at a funeral. They were all three drinking and smoking in that decorous quiet which characterises such times of mourning. "What is to be done?" asked Mark, walking in amongst them. " The child may be running to her ruin. She's at an age," he added with a faltering voice, "when she might have been enticed away by any specious scoundrel." " Don't think that, Mark," said the actor. '' That's too dreadful. She's simply a heartless, 26 A RISING STAR. graceless little baggage, and she's run away with- out a word of thanks or good-bye, to better herself. I only hope she'll do it." "Better herself?" cried the old lady, emerging from her apron and speaking with a broken voice. "Where's she likely to do that, I wonder? I'm sure Mr. Stanley couldn't have done more for her if he'd been her father or her brother. I know what he's gone without to pamper the little good- for-nothing. Go where she will she'll find no friend like him, and won't deserve to, neither." Mark, who had set his hat upon the table, laid his hand upon it. "I must find out," he said, "in what direction she had gone. I'll go down to Moor Street and see the police about it. They're always very obliging to us, and I know they'll help me," A RISING STAR. 27 " If I had known," said the old German strickenly, " I would have followed, but I did not guess, my young friend. I know so leedle about the house." " Mr. von Nadli," said Jing, ^' has been blaming himself all the evening ; but it's not his fault He couldn't guess that Esther was running away ! " " If she's gone, Mark," said the old actor, " let her go. If she's of that sort of nature you'll do no good by finding her and bringing her back again." " No," said Mark, " I can't feel like that about her." Juniper sprang from his chair, and groping with both hands in his trousers pockets, slammed on the table half a dozen instalments of five shilling pieces. *' If money's wanted," said Juniper, ''there's 28 A RISING STAR. something to go on with. I got four pounds for second prize to-day, and there it is, Mark." Juniper had a fancy for the larger forms of currency, and never felt that money was really money until he had it in crown pieces. Mark patted him on the shoulder, and declining his generous offer on the ground that there was no need for money yet, went out and walked swiftly towards the police station. There his story enlisted the ready sympathies of the inspector, who, always anxious to oblige the press, and being by nature a kindly fellow into the bargain, set a smart man at his immediate disposal. With this ally Mark made his way to the two railway stations, and at each made vain inquiry. Any official who might by chance have seen the runaway was safe in bed by this time. A RISING STAR. 29 "We shall find out nothing to-night," the de- tective said. " I'll be here first thing in the morn- ing, and if you've got a portrait of the young lady you might let me have it in the meantime. It'll come in useful. A picture's worth an hour's talk, any time." " I've a photograph at home," Mark answered. *' If you'll drive up with me I'll let you have it." A dismal autumn rain had begun to fall and the pavements were glistening in the gaslight. Mark's late duties had made him familiar with the desert streets of night-time, but he had never seen them under an aspect which looked so cold and dreary. It was not yet so late that the last of the mourn- ful contingent, the womanly flotsam, jetsam, and legend of the town, had gone home. They slunk 30 A RISING STAR. timidly round corners to accost him, or whispered from sheltering doorways as he went by ; and his heart chilled and sickened with a horrible fear to which he had no courage to give a name, and yet no power to put away. In New Street they found a belated cab crawl- ing listlessly along, the horse half asleep between the shafts and the driver nodding on the box. Mark hailed the man and was driven homeward, the detective still keeping him company. When he reached the house everything was dark and silent. He found his candle and crept noiselessly up- stairs. Everything looked changed and miserable. He found the photograph in its accustomed place upon his mantel-piece ; and at the sight of the saucy, smiling, innocent child-face gave a strange gasping sob. A RISING STAR. 3I He found out then how the graceless, wayward, charming Httle creature had locked herself about his heart. Without her the world looked alto- gether void and desolate. He carried the photograph downstairs, and sur- rendering it to the detective went back to his chamber, and there undressing in what seemed to him a curiously stony indifference, lay down and tried to sleep. He tossed and tumbled miserably through the interminable hours, searching his own mind all the while for some ground of accusation against himself. Where had he failed to be kind enough, watchful, generous, thoughtful enough? If he could have proved to himself that he had been remiss he would have been by contrast happy. He told himself over and over again that he 3^ A RISING STAR. might in some vague way have done better for the child, though for his life he could find no peg to hang a self-reproach upon. His heart recoiled stubbornly from any ill thoughts about Esther. He would not and could not think that the fault, if fault there was, was hers. Something had made the poor child unhappy Ñ something of which he was ignorant ; but he would follow and find her, and show her how unwitting the unknown slight had been, and when once he knew of it, would take care that it should never wound her any more. The world unhappily holds a good many people like Esther, who take all good fortune as their proper share and all misfortune as a bitter wrong. The type to which Mark belonged was rarer. To him any happy stroke of chance seemed unmerited and a thing to be humbly grateful for. The two A RISING STAR. 33 had been born at opposite poles, but the tender- hearted dreamer and enthusiast believed in no negative to his own position. And how should a young man, inexperienced in human nature, think that the kittenish, pretty, endearing ways, the sweet face and the eyes that could look so coaxingly, innocently affectionate, were the outward signs of a heart as dead as dry wood and as cold as marble ? Esther was only a child, and this freak of hers no more than a child's caprice Ñ a thing to be explained away, and to be at once forgiven. If she had known how much her going would hurt him she would have stayed. It was only a baby thoughtlessness which had so grieved him. There was no sleep for Mark that night, and he was up and dressed again before the desolate dawn had broken. He walked into the streets and tried VOL. II. 3 34 A RISING STAR. to outpace his thoughts, but leaden-footed as they were they kept up with him, let him walk as swiftly as he might. His steps led him unconsciously towards the centre of the town, and in New Street the sight of an early cab bowling along brought a sudden hopeful idea to his mind. It was possible Ñ the fancy crossed him with an eager flash Ñ that Esther had gone home to her father. He hailed the driver, made a rapid bargain with him, and entering the vehicle was driven off in the direction of Lipton Fields. It was a seven miles' journey, and what with his empty stomach and his sleepless night, and the raw morning air, he was al- together sick and dispirited before the drive was half over. Once or twice he drowsed off into monstrous dreams, and woke to an exaggerated sense of loss and trouble. He had had his share of A RISING STAR. 35 sorrow, but he had never been so profoundly miser- able in his life. It was broad daylight, and the one public-house of the place was opening when he reached the village. An unkempt potboy who had not yet rubbed the sleep from his eyes yawningly directed him to Bennett's Row. He drove thither, and having by the exhaustive process of knocking up everybody in turn discovered Pensioner Reddy's residence, knocked loudly at the door until the man himself answered in person. He was pale and surly from last night's drinking, and having a wicked headache was in no mood to be civil to his questioner. " You've got your deserts, young man," he said. " You helped her to run away from her rightful father, and now she's run away from you. Serve 36 A RISING STAR. you right. Her knows better than come here by a long sight. If her was to come her'd go back with a flea in her ear, and a pretty big 'un at that." Having thus delivered himself he slammed the door and retired with audible growlings. Mark stood disconsolately in the roadway. A window opened overhead, and the girl's stepmother, with a tattered shawl about her, rated him Ñ as he thought with insufficient reason Ñ until he drove away. An hour later he was back in the town again and met his detective at the railway station. " I've found out all about it, Mr. Stanley, so far," said the man. " The young lady went up third class to London yesterday by the one o'clock train. Our man here spotted her portrait in a jiffy, and described her to me. Tallish, reddish-haired, fresh- A RISING STAR. 37 coloured, and all the rest of it. She was quite alone, and nobody but an old woman with a market basket went in the same carriage with her." Mark thanked and tipped his man, and then tore home in an expectation which grew to a feverish certainty as he went that some line of explanation would by this time have reached the household. He found nothing of the sort, but there was news for all that. Jing had found the copy of the Era in which Esther had marked the name and address of Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop, and everybody w^as convinced that it afforded a clue to her probable whereabouts. " That blackguard's 'ticed her off," said Juniper. " If he has he'd better not face me any more. I'll land him on the smeller next time I come across him ! See if I don't." 38 A RISING STAR. Nobody had the heart to smile at this little bit of grotesquerie ; and Juniper, supposing himself to be taken au grand serieiix^ assumed an air still more bellicose. " I wish I could get away," said Mark. " If I could I'd go to town at once and see Wilstrop ; but the prince is at Derby to-day. I'm booked for the affair, and must go through it somehow. I'm free to-morrow, and I can wire in the meantime." " Don't wire," Broom besought him. " If Wil- strop's in it don't put him on his guard, Mark. The girl went away without a word, and if Wilstrop had anything to do with that he'll do his best to keep her dark." Mark having pondered for a while saw the wis- dom of the hint, and resolved to wait until he could meet Wilstrop face to face. A RISING STAR. 39 How he got through the duties of that day he never knew. The period remained a blank to his mind for ever afterwards. But if Mark were thus wounded by the rescued waifs ingratitude, there was another heart in the household which more than shared his pain. In her reserved and maidenly way Jing had been in love with Mark for a year or two without in the least suspecting it. To her way of thinking she had never seen a man w^ho deserved at all to be compared with him Ñ who was a hundredth part as handsome, as clever, as charming or as good. Whatever he did was excellent in her eyes. She accepted his opinions with an implicit unquestioning worship. Whatever good fortune befell him she rejoiced in ; and if ever she thought him slighted or ill-judged 40 A RISING STAR. she was bitterly indignant, and would, but for her own girlish shyness, which was naturally harder than anything else to conquer, have faced the world in his behalf Heaven knows how women, who show them- selves so poor and helpless in the understanding of the other sex, so intimately know their own. There are signs in feminine human nature towards which the most inexperienced girl is a cynic. Jing, though she owned to a certain fondness for Esther, and doubted her own judgment even where it was most infallible, could, if she had but trusted her own instinct, have read her like a printed page. Kindly-hearted young people of either sex are likely to treat a misdoubting native instinct of this sort as being malign and mis- chievous. A RISING STAR. 4I If a fanciful simile may serve to illustrate the case, Jing's mind in regard to Esther was like a well in which a freshet of sweet water overruns a brackish depth. She knew very well what lay below, but steadfastly refused to dip the bucket deep enough. But now things were changed. The heartless inconsiderate little wretch had wounded Mark ; and loyalty's tender soul was up in arms against her. Base, ungrateful, treacherous, wicked, soul- less. Mark's business for the day left him still an hour or two, and he sat miserably over his untasted breakfast with an unread newspaper propped against the cruet before him. Jing hovered mournfully in the small passage of the house, and at last found courage somehow to 42 A RISING StAR. go in. She had some thoroughly feminine subter- fuge about a lost spool of cotton, and a thoroughly feminine false astonishment on discovering that Mark had eaten nothing. " But you must eat, Mr. Stanley," said Jing ; and finding that everything had gone cold, she hurried off to cook a new meal and make new coffee for him. She was back again with a wonderful expedition, and by dint of coaxing did actually prevail on Mark to eat and drink. He was undeniably hard hit, but had not parted with all his native courage. He did his mournful best to look natural and like himself, but only suc- ceeded in revealing to Jing's observant and affec- tionate eyes the real extent of his suffering. It was hard to be obliged to make any pretence at all, and A RISING STAR. 4^ unobtrusive and gentle as the girl's attentions were he felt them to be intolerable. The tenderest touch is painful to a sore. He made haste to get away, packed up a few necessaries, and went down to the office to make arrangements for next day's liberty. CHAPTER XL "63 Mount Street, Grosvenor Square, "29^/^ October, 1875. Mr. James Brown, House and Estate Agent, "Valuer and Appraiser." " Estimates given. " Madam, Ñ An eminently eligible bijou residence is at this moment at my disposal at an unusually low rental. The object of the owner is rather to secure a caretaker than a tenant. The house is in all respects perfectly appointed, and may be seen on presentation of the card enclosed. The one disadvantage is that the servants (cook, housemaid (44) A RISING STAR. 45 and page-boy) are left behind ; but since they are on board wages, and since for the term of your tenancy you may treat them as being in your own employ, that disadvantage is reduced to a minimum. The rental is fixed at ^35 per annum payable quarterly, and I trust this sum is not beyond what you are disposed to give. I shall be glad of a reply at your earliest convenience. " I have the honour to be, madam, " Your obedient servant, "James Brown. " Mrs. Jordan, " 303 Long Acre, W.C." This epistle reached Mrs. Jordan by the first post on Saturday morning. The card enclosed admitted the bearer to view No. y^ Limesborough 46 A RISING STAR. Gardens, South Kensington. The same post brought a brief note from Mr. Bonnington Wil- strop, enclosing a hasty scrawl from Mr. Walker Mayhill to Mr. Wilstrop. The joint notes author- ised Miss Evelyn Delacour to present herself at the Sheridan Theatre at eleven o'clock that morning, for the purpose of signing an engagement with the lessee and manager, the salary for the first half-year being fixed at two pounds ten shillings per week. Whilst Esther pored over the one letter, which was the first she had ever received in her life, and was made to seem by that fact a thousand times more noteworthy, Mrs. Jordan read her missive with nods and wreathed smiles. Esther rose from the table flushed and triumphant. A RISING STAR. 47 *' Look at that ! " she cried. " Isn't that better than half the money at the FrivoHty ? " "And look at tJiat, dearie!" said Mrs. Jordan. "Isn't that better than 303 Long Acre? Bless your innocent little heart, I knowed it wouldn't be long- before Providence would befriend you." She minced round the table to embrace her guest ; and that spontaneous ebullition of tenderness being over, each of the two read the other's letter with mutual exclamations of surprise and pleasure. "Oh, but," said Esther, "it isn't at all a dis- advantage to have the servants there. I do hate dusting and cooking and washing up, my- self; and bed-making is such heavy work, isn't it? It always makes my back ache. You won't have to do anything if there are servants in the 48 A RISING STAR. house. They're on board wages too, and they won't cost you anything." The young lady had a rare eye for the main chance ; and her stepmother having been a housemaid in a noble family, she thought herself familiar with the arrangement referred to. " Why, the man must be a fool," she said, " to talk about that being a disadvantage." "Yes, dearie," said Mrs. Jordan. "It does look rather simple, doesn't it? But still, darling, in this world you must take all you can get and never pretend to be too satisfied with it, because then you stand a chance of getting more. Thirty- five pounds is a large rent to pay for a poor woman like me, that's alone in the world and has only got her own virtue and industry to protect her. I A RISING STAR. 49 must take a look at the 'ouse, and then perhaps I shall see what I can say." They were not very early risers that morning, and the visit to the house in Limesborough Gardens had to be postponed till after the sign- ing of the engagement. Mrs. Jordan accompanied her charge to the Sheridan Theatre, and not being personally known there was kept waiting until a small host of people who had business with the manager had been received before her. " They won't be treating you like this, dear, in a few months' time from now," she said, with a touch of acerbity in her tone. " You see if they will." The managerial reception was so chilly as to be embarrassing. Mr. Glynne sat on one side of a table and his acting manager, Francis, on the other. VOL. II. 4 50 A RISING STAR. Neither looked up at the entrance of the callers ; but Francis, with a curt sideway nod, said, " Sit down," and went on busily writing. "Make out that agreement, Francis," said Mr. Glynne. " Miss Delacour can sign it and go about her business." Tone and manner were so frankly offensive that Esther felt inclined to cry and run away. She had not expected such a reception, and was at a loss to understand it. If the manager did not want her, and he seemed very definitely to imply as much, why was he going to engage her ? " Christian name is Evelyn, isn't it ? " said Francis, looking towards her coldly. His eyes had no sooner alighted upon her than his expres- sion changed, and when she came to reflect upon it afterwards, Esther thought she had never en- A RISING STAR. 5I countered a more delicious little bit of flattery than this sudden alteration of his look conveyed to her. " Mais, mon ami, c'est une trouvaille ! Elle est ravissante," said Francis, bending anew over his paper. Esther could not understand the words, but she guessed that they related to herself, and was sure that they expressed a compliment. The manager suspended the flight of his own rapid pen and turned round with a casual air to look at her. He had been warned already, and his fixed comedian's mask of a face showed nothing. " C'est vrai," he said, turning back to his work. '* Elle est charmante." Somehow that atmosphere of offence and frig- idity which had filled the apartment on Esther's entrance had changed, and the little puss was LIBRARY UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 52 A RISING STAR. quite conscious that her own personal aspect was answerable for the difference. The mesh of freckles which had disfigured the exquisite fair- ness of her skin a year and a half before had wholly disappeared, but for one little beauty spot at the corner of her saucy mouth. Her trim and perfect little figure was shown to excellent advan- tage in a tight-fighting dress of navy-blue. Her brilliant big eyes, her clear colour, and the profuse masses of her hair, made her look altogether remark- able, and at first sight almost dazzling. A hundred people had turned in the streets to look at her that morning,andsheneeded nobody to tell her the reason. When the acting manager had written out the agreement and its duplicate, he passed them across the table to his chief, who, turning amiably to- wards Miss Delacour, asked her to be good enough A RISING STAR. 53 to sign one of them. Esther came forward with a becoming blush, which looked, but was not, shy. She drew a pretty little glove from her right hand, took the pen from the manager's fingers, and stooped over the desk to set her name to the docu- ment before her. Mrs. Jordan observed the glance each of the men bent upon her, and the look they exchanged between themselves. Esther was as conscious of both as if she had seen them, and dashed off her signature with a rapid flourish which would have seemed to argue her a perfect mistress of the pen. The fact was that she had practised it a thousand times, and the words " Evelyn Delacour" were the only two in the world which she could set upon paper with any appearance of dexterity. 54 A RISING STAR. Her handwriting in general was like a plough- boy's, but her signature looked like a lady's. It was painfully imitated from Jing's exemplar, but had a certain character and distinction of its own. " Now, Miss Delacour," said the manager, handing her the copy he himself had signed, "you are enlisted. I have accepted your services on Mr. Walker Mayhill's introduction, and I hope you will be able to do credit to it. We shan't be able to give you much at first, of course, but we shall find you an opportunity of showing what you can do. What have you done so far ? " " I played Henri in ' Belphegor ' last week at the Royal at Birmingham." "H Ñ m," said the manager, "and did you do well with it ? " A RISING STAR. 55 '' The newspapers seemed to think so, sir," said Esther modestly. She drew her purse from her pocket and took from it Mark's notice. Mr. Glynne, unlike his rival of the Frivolity, accepted it and thoughtfully skimmed it over. "Is this the Morning Herald? " "Yes, sir," said Esther. " Yes," said the manager. '' That will do very nicely. Thank you, Miss Delacour." He refolded and handed back the notice. " If you will call at this hour on Tuesday morning I will introduce you to my stage manager, and we will see what we can do for you." Mrs. Jordan, who had sat unremarked throughout the interview, opened the door and modestly curtsied her adieu. 56 A RISING STAR. The manager shook hands with Esther, and the pair took leave in a flutter of self-satisfaction. For Esther the most remarkable characteristic of the interview was its serious business tone, which contrasted in a marked fashion with the chaff and levity with which she had been encountered at the Temple of Burlesque. "I don't think there's much blackmail in that," said Francis when the door had closed. " If she isn't worth double the money in three months I'll eat my boots Ñ buttons, pegs and all ! " " That notice was very discernedly written," said Glynne in his own tired and cautious way. " The little girl looks clever, and she's certainly pretty." " By George she's that," Francis assented. *' She's a regular little clinker. If she's as clever A RISING STAR. 57 as she's nice to look at you'll have something to thank Mr. Walker Mayhill for. I wonder what his little game is, by-the-bye. He isn't so crying fond of you, or me either for that matter, that he should send a find like that here for nothing. He's a fish that swims in deepest waters, is Mr. Walker Mayhill. You can't always tell for what part of his own fishy world he's bound." " I'm glad it's no worse," cried the manager. " I thought he was taking a little spiteful dig at me, and it seems he isn't for once. The girl's looks are worth the money." With that the conversation closed, and the two went on with their business. Esther and Mrs. Jordan meanwhile had reached the street in high feather. " You see, dearie," said the elder, " what it means 58 A RISING STAR. to have a pretty face. Both them gentlemen was cross when we went in. They didn't so much as look at us at first, and I could see they meant to be nasty. But they wasn't nasty with you long, was they, fairy ? " Miss Delacour had an insatiable appetite for sweets of this kind ; and not even Mrs. Jordan's supply, liberal and coarsely furnished as it was, could cloy her. " We'll go and see the 'ouse," said Mrs. Jordan, " and if you like it, perhaps we'll go and live there. We'll take a cab, dearie. I'm sure we can afford it after this morning's work, and we'll stop opposite the Arkyde in Piccadilly and have a sponge-cake and a glass of wine to keep us going. That 'andsome gentleman with the eye- glass has passed us twice. I wonder who A RISING STAR. 59 he's a-looking at. Is it you or is it me, darling?" Mrs. Jordan put this with an almost humble jocosity ; and Esther, whose early distaste for her companion had vanished into thin air long ago, thought her the most delightful and amiable crea- ture in the world. Nobody else had ever said to her so openly what it was evident that everybody thought and ought to say. The noonday autumn sun shone bright and warm, and as the two rolled westward together in a well-horsed hansom, the town bore a very different aspect to that under which the girl had first seen it. It was late in the season of course, but there were scores of well-appointed carriages abroad, and well-dressed drivers and loungers by the hundred. 60 A RISING STAR. The park looked bright and green, and at first its wide expanse made her think that London was being left behind. " Are you going into the country ? " she asked, in a disappointed voice. " Lor' bless your innocent soul, no, dearie," her guide responded. "We're in the very 'eart of London. That's the park, my dear, and that out there is the pallis." The journey seemed almost interminable to Esther, though it lasted, the stoppage at the con- fectioner's included, no more than half an hour. Limesborough Gardens stand behind " The Boltons " in South Kensington Ñ a quiet shady street, well-timbered, with autumn leaves as thick in the roadway as if it had been a country lane, and the trees all robed in sunlight and parti- A RISING STAR. 6l coloured foliage. Every house was surrounded by its own little well-kept lawn, broken here and there by garden shrubs and flower beds. " Here we har', my dear," cried Mrs. Jordan, as the hansom came to a standstill. " Number seventy-three." Number seventy-three, like its neighbours, was a house of three stories. A neat gravelled path led from the outer gate to the house door, which was painted of a dark green. Thus early, to people learned at the outer aspects of houses, the place was noticeable. A certain care had been expended upon it of which its neighbours knew nothing. The brickwork had been pointed ; the paint of the door was of the best finish ; the door-knob was of better brass, better modelled, better polished 62 A RISING STAR. than the common door-knob. It was evident that the place had belonged to somebody who had chosen to spend money upon it, and who, if he wanted but little here below, as the dimensions of the house suggested, at least wanted to have that little of the best. Mrs. Jordan scrutinised the place with the eye of an amateur before she rang the bell. Its first tingle had scarcely sounded when the door was opened by a boy in buttons, who presented an amazing resemblance in miniature to a famous statesman of his time. He had white hair, white eyebrows, a clear florid complexion, a face of statesmanlike seriousness and pinkish eyes. He was a boy in buttons and was chubby, but his age was an unfathomable mystery. A RISING STAR. 63 " I have a card to view the house," said Mrs. Jordan, momentarily victorious over the letter H. She had drilled herself carefully to the phrase within the last half-mile, and spoke it with a lady- likeness which was almost painful. The page boy stood planted there, heel drawn to heel, the toes pointed at a proper angle, and the middle finger of each hand touching the trousers seam. He answered with a scarcely perceptible inclina- tion of the head and a murmured "Yes, mum," and stretching out a hand, touched an electric bell in the wall ; then he stood waiting in a respectful drooping attitude until his summons was answered. The person who responded to it might have been his sister, his grandmother, or his grand- daughter. Like himself she was ageless, and like 64 A RISING STAR. him had white hair and eyebrows, pinkish eyes and an even complexion of clear red. " A lady to view the house," murmured the irre- proachable boy in buttons. He was as solemn and reverential as if the viewing of the house had been in the nature of a religious rite. The female servitor, who, like him- self, was faultlessly appointed, accepted the card from Mrs. Jordan with a slight genuflexion. "If the ladies will give themselves the trouble to follow me," she said, and so led the way, first to a room opening from the hall on the visitors' right. This was a small apartment furnished as if for a combination of study and dining-room. It was upholstered in modern oak, the hangings were of a dead blue Utrecht velvet, which showed a greenish light in places. The carpet was of a patternless A RISING STAR. 65 drab. Everything was rich and pretentiously un- pretentious, but to Esther's mind the chamber was a trifle dowdy. Her inexperience gave her no clue to the costliness of the appointments or the pur- posed severity of their taste. A handsome show of cut glass sparkled on the sideboard, and Mrs. Jordan noticed that each article bore a tiny monogram surmounted by a very small ducal coronet. The white-haired pink-complexioned domestic stood in silence at the door until she saw that the visitors had looked their fill, then she turned and led the way to the opposite apartment, which was furnished with the same marked sobriety. It was set out in a darkish walnut, with a walnut pianette in one corner, a walnut writing-desk, and a student's apparatus of the same wood with a lamp attached, VOL. II, '5 66 A RISING STAR. and a book of engravings lying closed upon the rest. Everything was here as respectable, as decorous, and as grave as in the room they had first visited. Esther shrugged her shoulders. There was something in the cold propriety of the house which displeased her, and she thought instinctively that she would not care to live here. The domestic marshalled the visitors upstairs, and opening a door upon the first landing ushered them into a room at the first sight of which Esther clasped her hands with an irrepressible little cry of admiration and astonishment. Boucher Cupids, pink and pulpy, frolicked on the ceiling entangled in floating scarves. The walls were in a pale blue quilted satin with Watteau panels, and from them sprang the wavy indeterminate graceful lines of four gilt Chippendale girandoles, one on either A RISING STAR. 67 side of a Venetian mirror and one on either side the door. A dainty Louis XVI. bedstead stood in one corner, and the china was all Dresden Ñ blue, white and gold. The appointments of this little paradise of a nest were in complete keeping with it. Every bit of woodwork was of white enamel, slightly pencilled with gold. The Aubuisson carpet had a white ground sprinkled with rosebud bouquets of pink and green, and all the furniture was covered in a satin which matched the hue of the walls. On the opposite side of the landing they found a boudoir in which all these cosy beauties were reiterated, though here the keynote of colour was Rose Dubarry. Everything was elegant, sumptuous, charming. There were a hundred nick-nacks spread about the 68 A RISING STAR. chamber, the meaning and use of one-half of which were dark to Esther. There were statuettes and candelabra, bowls and vases of Sbvres and Chelsea and Dresden, Venetian mirrors on the walls, and suspended from the ceiling a crystal chandelier supplied with wax candles of various tints which, even in the day-time, seemed to give the chamber a certain gay and festal air. Esther fluttered hither and thither admiring and exclaiming. She buried herself in luxurious arm- chairs, lolling at ease upon the yielding springs. She took up and examined half the pretty nick- nackeries which lay scattered about, and twittered delight and astonishment voluble as a canary. That grave albino of a domestic stood by in a perfectly drilled quiet, and seemed as little con- scious or regardful as the pair of Dresden china A RISING STAR. 69 lovers who billed and cooed eternally in their own corner of the room. " That will do, thank you," said Mrs. Jordan, addressing the servant. Then turning to Esther : " You needn't bother about the rest of the place, dearie. I'll go over that by myself." It was obvious that the owner of the bijou residence was wealthy, and that he had excellent taste at his command. Mrs. Jordan was not long in assuring herself that his choice in liqueurs was at least as accurate as in furniture, for by some remarkable chance the late occupier had left behind him a compact little cellar full of the rarest marks and vintages. The cellar went with the house, it appeared ; and the owner, however anxious he might be to secure a model caretaker for his furniture, had left 70 A RISING STAR. no instructions for the conservation of his wines. Mrs. Jordan made the tour of the house, and expressed herself moderately satisfied with its appointments. " I don't really see," she said, returning alone and addressing Esther, " as I need hesitate about the 'ouse at all. I've seen the cook. She's the mother of the housemaid and the page boy, and as like 'em as two peas. I don't know where you'd find more respectable servants, and I think the 'ouse is cheap at the money. Of course I shall have to take care of things, and that'll make a difference." "Cheap!" said Esther. "Why, Mr. Broom paid thirty pounds a year for a house in Bath Row that hadn't a stick of furniture in it." " Yes, dearie," returned Mrs. Jordan, " but it's A RISING STAk. 71 the furniture that makes the house so cheap. I shall have to be responsible for it." She began to assume some airs of hesitation, and to put Esther into a little fever of anxiety lest, after all, she should refuse this unexampled bargain. " You mustn't throw away a chance like this, Mrs. Jordan. You won't now, will you ? " " You'll have to bear your share of the burden, dearie," said Mrs. Jordan. "You might have this little budwer and the bedroom on the same floor for your very own, but I shouldn't be able to ask you less than ten shillings a week for it." Miss Esther was inexperienced, but she could count, and she knew that there are fifty-two weeks in the year. " That leaves nine pounds a year for you to 72 A RISING STAR. pay," she answered, "and you'd have all the rest of the house." " We won't quarrel about that, lovey," said Mrs. Jordan. " There's a nice little breakfast-room on the ground floor as will do for me, and a little room upstairs as I can sleep in. You can have the rooms downstairs Ñ the two you've seen already Ñ into the bargain. Why, my dear, if it wasn't for my reputation as a careful woman I couldn't go about and find lodgings for you like these, not for less than ten times the money. It's such a windfall, darling, as I never heard of Ñ not for me, because I don't want the place Ñ but for you, my darling. You'd have to pay as much as ten shillings a week for lodgings anywhere, and where do you think you'll find anything like this?" A Rising star. 73 After a good deal of haggling Esther consented to the terms. She had never paid rent before, and felt resentful at her new friend for asking her to do it. Had the place been less to her fancy she would have struggled longer ; and even as it was the prospect of payment half dashed her pride and joy in this unexpected fairy palace of a home. She drove home rather sulkily, and was not at first amenable to Mrs. Jordan's flatteries, though by-and-by they brought her round and she kindled anew into a delighted vanity. The dirty little housemaid met them at the door of the house in Long Acre. " There's two gentlemen a-waiting upstairs for you and miss, mum. They've bin there for a 'our or more." 74 A RISING STAR. At this intelligence they mounted the stairs rapidly; and Esther reaching the dingy sitting-room saw Mark Stanley and Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop together. CHAPTER XII. Mark, having somehow dragged through his day's work, sent off his manuscript in care of the guard of a late train, and spent a dreary hour or two of waiting on the raihvay platform at Derby and then took the London express. He had a compart- ment to himself, and tried many useless devices to pass away his time. It was a late habit of his to carry a little travelling chess-board with him. He produced it now from his bag and tried to work out a chess problem, waking up by-and-by from a confused dream of a hundred nothings to find that half an hour had (75) 76 A RISING STAR. passed and that the problem had been utterly forgotten. He tried to read, tried to sleep, tried to think, and failed in all, perplexed with a contradictory sense that he could neither forget nor remember. His heart was so dulled with its own pain that it refused to feel, and he reproached himself for want of feeling. " I should have thought you'd have cared more, Mark," he said. " You ought to care." The long roll and whirl of the wheels got into his head and added a ponderous nightmare to the other leaden nothings of his fancy. He came at last to London, and was driven to the Tavistock Hotel in Covent Garden, where he went to bed, leaving an order that he should be called at nine o'clock. A RISING STAR. 77 He tossed about hopeless of sleep for hours, and at last, before he knew it, slept like a log. His order was obeyed and he was called, but he answered the summons in a dream and slept on undisturbed by it. It was high noon when he started broad awake. He consulted his watch, rang for his bath, made a hasty toilet and a hastier meal, and then walked straight to the lodgings of Mr.Bonnington Wilstrop. That gentle- man was at home, enjoying the first cigar of the day in slippers and dressing-gown. He came beaming with his own factitious benevolence to welcome his visitor. Mark looked at his extended hand but did not take it. The manager retired it with a look of surprise and constraint which for once bore the stamp of nature. 78 A RISING STAR. " Why, Stanley, dear boy," he demanded, " what's the matter ? " "Will you do me the kindness," said Mark, "to give me a straight answer to two questions ? " His face was colourless, and his manner was full of a threatening quiet and determination. " Certainly, dear boy," said Mr. Wilstrop, re- covering himself enough to carry his look of sur- prise beyond the reasonable. " You know the little girl whom you and I found together about a year and a half ago Ñ who went to the Royal and played there under the name of Miss Delacour ? " " Of course I do, dear boy," cried Wilstrop, with such an exuberant air of candour that Mark at once leapt to the conclusion that he had something to conceal. The actor-manager knocked that fancy A RISING STAR. 79 to pieces at a blow. " She was here yesterday, asking for a London engagement. Do you mean to tell me, dear boy, you didn't know that ? " ''No," said Mark, still wrathfully quiet. ''I didn't know it. What was your object, Mr. Wil- strop, in enticing the child from home? " " Enticing her from home, dear boy ? " cried- Wilstrop, in accents so resonant that they set the glass globes ringing faintly in the chandelier. " I never enticed her away from home. The little creature came to me. She said she wanted a London engagement, and I got her one." He was not a very brave man ; and though he was perfectly innocent in the matter, the menacing question in Mark's look not only threatened him, but in an undefined way made him feel half guilty. "You know her present address?" Mark asked. 80 A RISING STAR. '' Certainly, dear boy," cried Wilstrop, overdoing his candour more than ever. " She is staying with a Mrs. Jordan, a person whose respectabihty I should be happy to guarantee anywhere. She is costumih^e to the Frivolity, and the young lady appears to have met her down in Birmingham." " Very well," Mark answered, with no change of tone or manner. " We will go to see that lady together, if you please." " Dear boy," said Mr. Wilstrop, making a motion, which Mark evaded by a backward step, to lay both hands upon his companion's shoulders, " I should be deceiving myself if I pretended not to observe a want of cordiality in your manner. I do not permit Ñ pardon me, dear boy, if I tell you in the most friendly and conciliatory spirit in the world Ñ I do not permit any man in the world A RISING STAR. 8l to take your present air with me without soHciting an explanation." " We'll go and see this Mrs. Jordan together, if you please," said Mark, " and we'll do it at your earliest convenience." Mr. Wilstrop shook his head slowly and mourn- fully. "You will regret this tone, dear boy," he said. " You will regret it. In interesting myself in that young lady's favour I did it under the impression that I was obliging you. If you choose to make an inquisition into my acts and motives I am at your service. This, I confess, is not the form of thanks I looked for. I will be at your disposal in five minutes." He made a dignified exit from the scene. It was on going through a doorway, if there were VOL. II. 6 ¤2 A RISING STAR. only so much as a cat to look at him, that Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop most especially prided himself. He thought that his departing legs and shoulders expressed subtly a sense of undeserved wrong, and this conception so worked upon him that before he was attired for the streets he had come in his own imagination to an almost tearful reconciliation with Stanley. He went out all injured majesty and came in with a pathetic air of forgiveness. Mark's mind, in the meanwhile, had been travelling in another groove. The actor-manager was surprised to find him unchanged. There had seemed something mesmeric in his own thoughts ; the other man ought to have felt as he had done. " Ready ? " Mark asked curtly. A RISING STAR. 83 " Ready, dear boy," Mr. Wilstrop responded, and the two went out together. A walk of two or three minutes brought them to Mrs. Jordan's residence; and Mr. Wilstrop, unfamiliar with the ways of the house, rang the wrong bell and brought down a wrathful foreigner from the attics, who slammed the door violently against him and went upstairs in a polyglot cloud of curses. This accident so far increased Mark's suspicions that the actor-manager rang all the remaining bells at once. " She lives here," he said defiantly. " This is the address she gave." The four summonses brought four responses. The dirty little housemaid answered for Mrs. Jordan, and the inquirers entered. If the gentle- 84 A RISING STAR. men would wait Mrs. Jordan might be back directly, said the dirty maid Ñ Mrs. Jordan might be back in an hour, or she might be back in a minute. They elected to wait, and were shown up two flights of uncarpeted stairs into a sitting- room. " One moment," said Mr. Wilstrop, addressing the maid, who was about to leave them there. " Attend to me, if you please. You are in Mrs. Jordan's service? Mrs. Jordan has a visitor here, a young lady ; is she out also ? " " They went out together about eleven o'clock," said the dirty maid. " Good," said Mr. Wilstrop, with a kingly air. '* We will await their return. You can go, my child." The minutes began to drag by very wearily, and A RISING STAR. 85 after the lapse of a quarter of an hour, in the course of which Mark had taken out his watch a score of times, the actor-manager spoke. " You do not seem, dear boy," he said, "to repose any great confidence in me." " Well ? " said Mark. The curt monosyllable seemed to pain Mr. Wilstrop. " I think you might, dear boy," he said. " I think you might." " I think otherwise," said Mark. " You wrong yourself, Stanley, more than you wrong me," said Wilstrop, rising and leaning on the mantel-piece. "You yourself have confessed that in the only transaction we have had together, my conduct was perfectly honourable." " I beg your pardon there," said Mark, " I said 86 A RISING STAR. nothing of the kind. I charged you with having kept your bargain." " Well, dear boy, what else did you expect me to do?" cried Wilstrop, injured and surprised at once. " You would like an answer to that question ? " Mark asked him. " I have a right to the answer to that question," said Wilstrop, blustering a little. " You shall have your right," Mark responded. " I expected nothing else. If I had not thought you to be the man you are, I might have expected something very widely different." " You use strange language, Mr. Stanley ! " cried Wilstrop, inflating himself. " Have none of the men," asked Mark, " who know you, told you what you are? " A RISING STAR. 87 "What I am, sir!" retorted Wilstrop. ''And what am I, sir? " " You want an answer to that question too ? You have a right to it. Well, you shall have it You are a greedy rogue, Mr. Wilstrop ; reaping Avhere you have not sown, and gathering where you have not strawed. You are not content with having nade a little fortune out of the proceeds of my work ; but once a week, for more than a year past, you have robbed me of my proper credit by a public lie. My bargain was to keep quiet Ñ in public Ñ and I will keep it ; but between ourselves it is just as well that there should be an understanding." " I shall remember this language," cried Wil- strop, hectoring up and down the room. " One would suppose so," Mark responded ; and there for a while communication closed. 88 A RISING STAR. In another mood Mark would have been too disdainful of the manager's malpractices to take the trouble to denounce them ; but he was tired and sore at heart, and Mr. Wilstrop had himself seemed to ask for the rather outspoken rebuke he had received. I The waiting went on, and after a lengthy interval a bell rang outside. Wilstrop, who had resumed his seat, rose at this alarm, and posed himself upon the hearth-rug. Mark sat grave and quiet ; and Esther, bursting triumphantly into the room, stood suddenly arrested. Mark rose unconsciously, and for a second or two he and his graceless protegee faced each other in silence. "Mark!" faltered Esther. " IÑ IÑ didn't ex- pect to see you here so soon," A RISING STAR. 8g "My child," said Mark, "you will find no friends truer than those you ran away from. I have come to take you home again." Unnumbered reflections, memories and antici- pations darted through the girl's mind at once. She thought of the household work and profes- sional drudgery, and Mark's word "home" meant no more than these to her. She thought of the exquisite little fairy cham- bers in Limesborough Gardens, of Mrs. Jordan's honeyed flatteries, of her own triumphal progress, which had moved without a single hitch, and promised so fairly to increase in splendour. " I can't go home, Mark," she responded. " I've got an engagement at the Sheridan." Only a heart that could itself be wounded could understand how deeply she had wounded Mark. go A RISING STAR. Esther was miles away from the comprehension of his feeHng ; but, in spite of that, she could not fail to know herself guilty of a base ingratitude, and his pale face and mournful looks disturbed her. She hated to be troubled, and was conscious of a little pettish rage against Mark for caring enough to follow and annoy her. She did not absolutely reason so, but the main factor in her thoughts was that she had sucked the Birmingham orange dry. It had nothing left to yield her. " I do not care," said Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop, taking up his hat and addressing himself to Mark, " to remain as a spectator of Mr. Stanley's domestic affairs. You brought me here to satisfy yourself in regard to certain particulars. Permit me to do what I came to do and take my leave. You had A RISING STAR. QI better question the young lady yourself, sir, in whatever form you choose." Mark made no response to this request, being indeed too sick at heart to take much notice of it ; and the actor-manager, taking more and more the aspect of an injured and a lofty soul, himself began to catechise Esther. ¥' When you called upon me yesterday. Miss Delacour, was it in consequence of any overture I had made to you directly or indirectly ? " '' Yes, sir," said Esther, in a trembling voice. The sombre looks of the two men, and her own accusing conscience, frightened her, and she was three-fourths disposed to cry. " How ? " cried Wilstrop. " You came to me at my suggestion ? " 92 A RISING STAR. "You told me long ago," said Esther, "that I ought to go to London." " I recall the circumstance, my dear, but I had forgotten it. Will you have the goodness to tell Mr. Stanley as nearly as you can remember pre- cisely what I said, and when and where I said it ? " " It was on the stage," said Esther, thus adjured. " You said " Ñ sob Ñ " I was charming " Ñ sob Ñ " and that I ought really " Ñ sob Ñ '' to go to London." " And that," said Mr. Wilstrop, " was wholly and solely the reason why you came to me ? " "That was the reason," Esther answered. " Thank you, dear child," said Mr. Wilstrop suavely. Then turning upon Mark : '' I do not ask, dear boy, for any withdrawal on your part. I simply call on you to observe that in this matter I am entirely innocent. I believed myself to be A RISING STAR. 93 forwarding your own wishes, and I tried in my own small way to do you a kindness. It has the misfortune to be poorly appreciated, and I bid you good-afternoon." He bowed splendidly all round, and went away with the air of a man who, though slighted, was aware of his own worth and probity. "What made you leave us, dear?" said Mark. " You know we all loved you and would have done anything in our power to make you happy." " I could Ñ could Ñ couldn't bear to stop," said Esther, taking shelter behind her handkerchief. " I want Ñ wanted to do something Ñ to get on. I thought I should have a chance in London." " But to leave us without a word, Esther ! To go without saying good-bye ! To run away from us!" 94 A RISING STAR. He meant no reproach, but he was wounded to the core. " I couldn't have said good-bye," the girl sobbed, with a feminine wile so quick and wicked that it would have done credit to a woman of twice her years. "It would have broke my heart to say good-bye to you, Mark ! " Esther's tears were flowing quite naturally already, and when she showed her wet eyes and flushed cheeks for a moment as she made this declaration, she looked like an image of sincerity. Mark would rather have died outright than doubt her. He reached out both hands, and she, with what looked like an altogether childish abandon, threw herself into his arms and finished her cry there. Mark soothed her with murmurs and caresses. Her tears afflicted him with a pity so A RISING STAR. 95 keen as to cause an actual physical pain ; and of course the more he soothed her the more she cried, until she felt that her cause was completely won, and in that comfortable conviction allowed herself to be comforted. " We only want you to be happy, darling," said Mark. " Happy and prosperous. None of us wish anything but that for you. But you know that, don't you, dear?" "Oh, yes," she sobbed, with her wet cheek against his, and her arms about his neck. She was sure of that, but she had been so mis Ñ mis Ñ miserable down there, and nobody had known it. She had not been understood, and had not been able to explain herself; and, playing her con- quering card again, it would have broken her heart to say good-bye. 96 A RISING STAR. Mrs. Jordan was so moved by this tender and affecting scene that she sought her own room to fortify her spirits, and, returning, bathed herself in tears, and declared that Esther was a " hangel ". " It's only them as has known 'em," she de- clared, " as can tell what those feelings is," Mark, being young and inexperienced, naturally supposed that when a woman cried her tears meant something. He gave Mrs. Jordan credit for a good heart and ready sympathies. " You say you have signed an engagement, Esther," he said, gently leading his protegee to a sofa, and taking a place beside her. '' Tell me how that came so very quickly." " I don't know," said Esther, still sobbing a little for effect. '' I had another offered me at the Frivolity, but they only wanted to give me twenty- A RISING STAR. 97 five shillings a week, and said I couldn't have a speaking part for months to come. I'm to have fifty shil Ñ lings at the Sheridan, and they'll let me do whatever I'm fit for." Mark began to think that the baby escapade had turned out very nicely, and that the child could hardly have done better. " That is wonderfully good to begin with," said Mark; "but you will have to buy all your own modern dresses, you know, dear, and the ladies at the Sheridan are accustomed to dress very well. You'll find that rather expensive, but we will see to it between us, eh?" This made the reconciliation complete, and Mark fell to questioning Mrs. Jordan. The good lady answered him with perfect discretion, and in her genteelest manner. VOL, II, 7 gS A RISING STAR. She professed the warmest liking for the dear young lady, *'as if anybody could see her and not take a liking to her, the pretty darling, with her taking ways," and promised to be a second mother to her. " I had a little one of my own, Mr. Stanley, sir," said the good creature, weeping anew at that re- membrance, " as might have grown to be her living image. You can trust a mother's 'eart, Mr. Stanley." Mark was sure he could ; and yet, for so young a man, was at least no more than an average fool. So, with all tears dried and all hearts apparently gay and tender, Mark took the pair out to luncheon. After that he drove them in the Park, gave them five o'clock tea and a dinner, and, being on friendly terms with at least one London manager, secured a box at the play, and thus agreeably passed the A RISING STAR. QQ time until the hour of the departure of the last train. Then he took an affectionate farewell of Esther and a friendly leave of Mrs. Jordan, and rode off with a lightened heart, which grew heavier and heavier as the train rolled on. He had never guessed it till she ran away from him, but his eyes were opened now. The child meant everything to him, and he was leaving all the warmth and light of life behind him. CHAPTER XIII. Esther was entrusted with a small speaking part in Mr. Burgoyne's farcical comedy of " Filthy Lucre ". She came out of her London ordeal with perfect success. There was no chance for dis- traction, and the critics took no notice of her. The management was pleased, however, and Glynne promised her something better by-and- by. "Filthy Lucre" ran for seven weeks only, and Glynne was getting into low water. *' I've tried all the old hands," he said to his Fidus Achates, " and there isn't one of 'em I haven't lost money by. I think I shall be forced (lOO) A RISING STAR. lol back on this new fellow. I don't know whether the public will stand serious comedy now-a-days, but I've read the piece two or three times and it's devilish clever." " You're asking my advice, Glynne ? " queried Francis, looking up at him. " You want me, as far as I know how, to give you the straight griffin?" "Why, of course I do, dear boy. That's what we're here for." "Well," said Francis, scribbling absently on the blotting pad before him, " here it is. Drop the whole business, shut up the shop, take a company and go through the provinces with the legitimate." Glynne got up, and began to pace in a disturbed fashion about the room. " You started with three thousand," Francis went on, l02 A RISING STAR. " and you've got a trifle over five hundred left. The theatre's paid for three months in advance. There's twelve hundred you can fetch out of the fire at once. We've got an offer for the house, and you can transfer the lease to-morrow. It's no use walking into headlong ruin with your eyes open." " Hang it all ! " cried Glynne, plunging back into the chair he had just vacated, and plucking ner- vously at his clean-shaved upper lip, " there must be some way of hitting 'em. I believe in this piece myself. You've read it, what do you think about it ? " " It ought to be good enough," Francis answered ; "and if you had any reasonable sort of luck, I should advise you to try it. As it is, I don't. You've asked me for my advice, and I say ' Cut A RISING StAR. I03 the game '. The cards are against you, and have been from the start." Glynne drew a cigar case from his pocket, passed it to his companion, and then selected a cigar for himself with great apparent deliberation. The two men smoked in silence for two or three minutes. Then there was a tap at the door, and a man an- nounced "Mr. Walker Mayhill". He entered smiling and shook hands with each of the occupants of the room. Having gone through this performance with something of an air of mystery, he sat down and looked, still smiling, from one to the other. " You're looking pretty chippy, dear boy," said Glynne somewhat morosely. "Thanks, dear boy," said Mr. Mayhill, in his easy tenor. " And how are you ? And how is business ? " 104 ^ RISING StAU. "Oh, I'm pretty fit," Glynne answered, with a half sulky carelessness. " As for business, the less said about it the better." "I looked in last night," said Mr. Mayhill. "The house was very well dressed, but it looked a little bit papery, eh, dear boy ? " He was still smiling, and looked so ineffably contented with himself that the manager's gorge rose at him a little. " You don't find your friend's misfortunes very heavy," he said gruffly. " My darling fellow," returned Mr. Mayhill, " I'm really delighted with your news. If you had been doing as well as you deserve I should have been a little disappointed." " You would, would you ? " Glynne demanded, looking askance at him. " I am on a friendly mission," said Mr. Mayhill. A RISING STAR. I05 " I have got most admirably good news for you." He rose with a humorously exaggerated air of secrecy, and opening the door looked out upon the corridor. Then having closed the door with extreme caution he returned to his seat, and once more smiled in silence at his companions. " Got good news, have you ? " said Glynne. " It'll be the first that has been heard here for a day or two. Let's have it." " Would a few loose hundreds be of any use to you just now ? " asked Mr. Mayhill. " Begad they would ! " said Glynne and Francis together. " A few loose thousands ! " insinuated Mr. May- hill. The two leaned forward questioningly, after exchanging a single glance of astonishment, but neither spoke. "If they would, dear boy, you I06 A RISING STAR. have only to say the word, and they're at your disposal." "H'm!" said Glynne, a little doubtingly. " What's the quid pro quo ? " " Now I like this," said Mr. Mayhill. " I like it because it's businesslike and above board. There is a quid pro quo, my darling fellow ; but the quid is the tiniest little thing in the world, and the quo is the biggest thing going. You've got a very pretty, dear little woman here : a Miss Ñ Miss Ñ Delacour." He searched for the name, and found it, with an excellent pretence of sudden memory. '' Yes," said Glynne. " What about her ? " " A distinguished friend of mine," said Mr. Mayhill, " a very wealthy friend of mine, is anxious that the young lady should have a career." "Look here, Mayhill," said Glynne, "I want A RISING STAR. 10^^ you to understand definitely that I've never had anything to do with that sort of thing, and that at my time of Hfe I'm not going to begin. There are people enough in the profession who'll help you, if you want to be helped ; but I'm not one of them." " My darling fellow ! " cried Mr. Mayhill, his light tenor voice soaring suddenly into soprano, "you are utterly and absolutely mistaken. You are on the wrong tack altogether. My distinguished friend has reached a time of life when his character in that respect stands beyond suspicion. His interest in the young lady is purely paternal Ñ grandpaternal, if you like." " Is it old Belisle ? " asked Francis brusquely. *' My dear fellow," said Mr. Mayhill, raising a deprecating hand, " my darling fellow, now really! I08 A RISING STAR. Now, should we, in a matter of this kind, mention names ? Now do you really think we ought ? " "Belisle!" said Glynne reflectively. " He's had a box here three nights a week for a fortnight past. I wondered what he was after." " Can't he be a little more discreet ? " suggested Mr. Mayhill. "I beg you both to observe that I'm in such a position that I can neither contradict nor affirm any guess you may offer. I can only tell you that an elderly, a very elderly Ñ a dis- tinguished, a very distinguished Ñ a wealthy, an extremely wealthy, personage, has been kind enough to take a friendly interest in the affairs of Miss Delacour. I can assure you that the lady's character and reputation will take no stain from his association with her. If there had been the slightest danger of anything of that sort, I A RISING STAR. lOQ hope you don't think so poorly of me as to suppose that I should have brought you the proposition." Glynne consulted the eye of his henchman, and Francis, sitting with his face shrouded in both hands, lapsed into a delighted grin. His face re- turned to an expression of gravity with the celerity of an india-rubber mask, and he winked with a laboured slowness. Glynne's tired comedian's visage showed no spark of change. He looked wearily round on Mayhill, as if inviting him to continue. " My distinguished friend," pursued Mr. May- hill, '' asks for nothing unreasonable. What he desires is simply this, that the little woman shall have what is in your view a fair and legitimate chance of improving herself, and of showing what she can do. You won't be asked to put her into no A RISING STAR a part where your own judgment tells you that she would be an arrant failure. My distinguished friend is too experienced and too much a man of the world to attempt to thrust a raw amateur on the British public as a finished actress." " Well," said Francis, " I don't see any harm in that. That's sensible enough and reasonable enough. What else does the old buffer want? Of course he will be asking for a voice in the selection of pieces, and all that sort of thing." "Quite mistaken, dear boy," Mr. Mayhill an- swered. " He doesn't want to interfere in your affairs at all." "If we've got hold of a good thing," said Glynne, "in Miss Delacour, I think I shall have the brains to see it. If I'm going to carry on the theatre, and she's any good at all, she'll go up the A RISING STAR. Ill ladder just as fast as she is able to climb it. I don't want any man to pay me money for what I should do in my own interest." "Bertie, my boy," said Francis, interrupting his chief, "you'd better go outside. Mayhill and I can settle this little business between us. You can send up a bottle of Pommery, and come back in half an hour. You're not fit for this world, dear boy, and that's a fact." " I don't like the business," Glynne answered. " I've done without this kind of thing " " And been out of pocket by it," said Francis. " Now, get out, that's a good chap. I don't ask you to do anything to be ashamed of, but I shan't let you miss a chance like this if I can help it. Then get along and leave us to it, and don't forget the Pommery." 112 A RISING STAR. He shouldered Glynne out of the room with a boisterous pretence of roughness. " Isn't all that a littleÑ a littleÑ eh?" said Mr. Mayhill, waving his small gloved hand towards the closed door. "No," said Francis bluntly, "it isn't. There is no straighter man than Glynne alive. He's got fanciful notions, and he's a rare bad man of busi- ness. Now, you and I are not Quixotes, Mayhill, and we can talk like men of the world. This isn't the first time old Belisle has taken a fancy to a pretty face, and it won't be the first time he's paid for it." "My dear boy," cried Mr. Mayhill, "with what a pertinacity you cling to that fortuitous guess of yours!" "There's nothing here to humbug but the fur- A RISING STAR. tl^ niture," said Francis, " and we shan't have much of an effect on that. Miss Delacour's address is 73 Limesborough Gardens. Old Belisle owns the house, and spends half his time there. If you'd come to me a dozen years ago with any proposal that the dramatic lamb should be served up for that old wolf, I should have said ' No ' to it. I'm not as thin-skinned as Glynne is ; but I'm a decent sort of chap when you come to know me, and that sort of thing isn't in my line. Belisle has outlived his vices, and if he likes to play grandfather to a pretty girl and to pay me for helping him, I'm will- ing to take my share of the bargain. Now, in plain English, what is he prepared to do ? " "I take it," said Mr. Mayhill, "that my distin- guished friend Ñ whose name, mind you, I have not divulged and never shall divulge Ñ I take it that my VOL. II. 8 114 A RISING STAR. disting-uished friend is prepared to keep a dramatic home over the head of Miss Delacour. If you want a httle money, you can have it. If you want a good deal of money, you can have it." " Well," said Francis, " Glynne's dropped fifteen hundred here. A minute before you came in I was advising him to cut the whole business. I shouldn't counsel him to carry it on with a pound less than his original capital." " Exactly," said Mr. Mayhill, " exactly. But the house is dowdy, dear boy ; and if you want to make a splash, you must bring the place up to West End level. It wants redecorating, v^ants to be newly upholstered. We must instal the electric light. Don't be afraid to open your mouth. Take my distinguished friend while he's in the mood." The man who had ushered Mr. Walker Mayhill A RISING STAR. II5 into the maiias^er's room came in with a bottle of "^ts^ champagne and glasses. Francis poured out the wine and clinked his glass with Mayhill's. "Take it all as settled," he said. "The little woman shall have a fair show, and a bit more than she could reasonably look for. There's a part here," he continued, setting his hand on a pile of manu- script which lay upon the desk, " which would fit her like a glove if she'd only had another year's experience. I daresay I can coach her up to it. She's smart and quick enough, and I shall make her work. You may just tell your distinguished friend at once, Mayhill, to give her the straight tip about one thing. If she's going to do any good, it won't be by being dragged head and shoulders into parts that are too big for her. If she's going to get on, she's got to work, and to work deuced hard into the bargain." Il6 A RISING STAR. As he spoke the last words, Glynne came wearily back again, chewing the end of his cigar and twitch- ing his eyebrows, as he had a habit of doing when disturbed. " And what have you conspirators been up to ? " he asked. " It's all settled, old man," Francis responded. " We'll put up a notice to the company to-night, terminating the run on Saturday, and we'll have the decorators in as soon as the curtain's down. We're going tohavetheplacerefittedfromtop to bottom, and instal the electric light. We can get the whole thing done in a fortnight, and I can borrow the stage of the Friv. for rehearsal to-morrow. We'll start with 'The Little Widow,' and Miss Delacour can have " " The title rblel' suggested Mayhill, with a touch of humorous malice. A RISING STAR. II7 " No, thank you," returned Francis. " She'll play Clare, a jolly, bright little soubrette part. I shall make it my special business to coach her up in it." " But I say," broke in Glynne, " ain't you going a bit too fast, Francis ? I'm sorry to spoil your castle-building, but " "Bertie," said Francis, turning on him with portentous solemnity, " if you're such a fool as to chuck a chance like this, I'll never speak to you again. So help me God, I won't. What's it matter to you if old Belisle wants to make a fool of himself about the girl ? He'll keep her out of mischief. If his fancy should last a couple of years, she'll have had so much experience by that time that she'll probably be as safe as any old stager of 'em all. In the meantime, she finds a Il8 A RISING STAR. watchdog, and you find a banker. If you say ' No ' to such a chance as this you'll be the biggest ass that ever trod in shoe-leather." He waxed warmer and warmer as he spoke, and Glynne attempted in vain to quiet him. "All right!" he said at last. "Have your own way." But even then Francis pursued his theme. "How could a man," he demanded, " be such an all-fired idiot as to throw away any such a windfall ? " "Confound it !" roared Glynne, in sudden wrath. " Can't you hear what I say ? Take your own way, and be hanged to you ! Take your own way. D'ye hear that, you chattering idiot ? " " Right, dear boy ! " responded Mr. Francis, with instant calm. " Have a glass of Pommery, and drink to the founder of our fortunes. Here's to A RISING STAR. II9 your distinguished friend, Mayhill. Let's hope his fancy for this httlc baggage may last his time, and that he may hve to be a hundred." The conference spHt up shortly afterwards ; and that evening Glynne received a message from his bankers, stating that the sum of five thousand pounds had been placed to his credit. An hour later, Miss Delacour was summoned to the manager's room, and there interviewed by Francis. " You've done very well with the part you're playing," he began, "and we're going to trust you with something better." "Oh thank you, Mr. Francis," said Esther, beaming. " You'll have pretty nearly three weeks for study and rehearsal," he continued. "And I want to impress upon you this one fact Ñ you've got to work Ñ like blazes \ " 120 A RISING STAR. "Oh!" she cried, " Fm not afraid of work, Mr. Francis." '' It isn't a part," said Francis, ''that you'd find difificult if you'd had more experience. At pre- sent I don't think you're quite up to it, and I'm acting rather against my own judgment in trusting you with it. You'll have to come to me and be coached up in the business. I'm going to take a lot of trouble with you, and if you don't come up to my expectations I shall have to take the part away from you. You understand ? " " Oh quite ! " she said, flushed and sparkling. " There is the scrip." He handed a bundle of oblong type-written sheets, bound in a brown paper cover, to Miss Delacour, who accepted it with flushed face and eager eyes, and at once began to turn its pages over. At the first touch A RISING STAR. 121 of it, and the first glance at the closely typed pages, her heart beat with a triumph so vivid as to be almost painful. She was going to play a real character at last, and in London ! She stood under the gaslight turning the pages over, looking, as Francis thought, astonishingly pretty in the excitement of the moment, when suddenly her whole expression chilled. She dropped the part in both hands before her, and looked at the acting manager with a face of panting dismay, as if she were actually about to cry. *' Hallo ! " cried Francis. " What's the matter with rou, miss?" "Oh," she said despairingly. "I know this; this isn't anything." " I don't think you do know it," Francis answered. 122 A RISING STAR. " Don't 1 ? " said Esther sullenly. " I bet you what you like I do. You hear me now. You give me a cue anywhere." She thrust the part into his hands and stood defiantly waiting. Francis, with a surprised and uncertain look, read at haphazard : " ' Take care of the crockery ware ' ". " ' That's your business, Mr. Jamieson,' " returned Esther. "'I'm not the butler here.' Oh!" she cried, " I know the whole thing backwards. It's Mark Stanley's. ' The Little Widow.' " " That's odd," said Francis, half to himself. " He said it had never been produced anywhere." " It hasn't been produced," said Esther. " Then how do you come to know about it ? " " Mr. Stanley brought me up," she answered. " He used to talk about ' The Little Widow ' all A RISING STAR. I23 day long. He read every line of it to me and Jing. We used to rehearse it for him at home to see what it would look like, but Jing always played this part, and I played the Little Widow." " Oh ! " said Francis, with a comic sidelong look at her, " you played the Little Widow, did you ? I suppose you'd like to play the Little Widow here ? " Esther, sensitive to the tone of banter, returned no verbal answer. The expression of her face and the pettish movement of her little figure were eloquent enough. " The pig was killed," said Francis, "because he had too much cheek. Now^, you run away. Miss What's-your-name, and be jolly glad that you've got a part that's far above your merits, and some- body who knows the business to coach you in it." Esther rolled the type-written pages spitefully, 124 A RISING STAR. and walked from the room scarlet under this reproof. She had been ten weeks away from home, and during the whole of that time had met with little else than flattery and an obsequious obedience. She was extraordinarily swift to receive new impressions and to take new colours, so that when a thing had lasted for ten weeks it looked as if it had been going on for ever. She walked to the stage door, her little feet tapping indignation all the way, her hands and teeth clenched in wrath against Francis for his rudeness. That good creature, Mrs. Jordan, awaited her in the stage door keeper's lodge, and noting her angry face led the way in silence to the neat and unpretentious little brougham which stood waiting outside. Mrs. Jordan had already learned to respect her young charge's temper. Esther had A RISING STAR. 125 quite forgotten her first disgust for this excellent lady, and fed willingly and even greedily on the gross mounds of flattery she laid before her; but she had not been long in finding that she had the power to frighten her protectress. Mrs. Jordan blessed her stars daily for the chance which had thrown Esther in her way, and had enabled her to exchange her squalid apartments in Long Acre for the sweet seclusion of Limesborough Gardens, and the contents of the little flat bottle for a cellar which held an unfailing supply of the choicest liqueurs and wines. The flat bottle had oftentimes brought comfort, but there is a difference between comfort and downright luxury ; and Mrs. Jordan was the woman to appreciate it. She waited in silence for Esther to expose her grievance, or to cheer up without speaking of it, ready to fit herself 126 A RISING STAR. with instant suppleness to any mood her companion might assume, and cautiously screening her face by the light of an occasional gas lamp. Esther said nothing until home was reached, but one foot kept up a rigid tattoo on the floor of the brougham, so marked and angry that even the thick and fleecy rug failed altogether to deaden its note. When the house was reached the girl flung out of the carnage, walked singly along the hall and up the stairs, and banged the door of her boudoir behind her so noisily that the sound echoed through the house like a small clap of thunder. The albino page boy closed the outer door decorously, and withdrew towards his own quarters. Mrs. Jordan arrested him. " 'As 'is grace been 'ere this evenin' ? " No, mum." A RISING STAR. I27 ** Is he expected ? " " I can't tell, mum." " Ah, well, you can tell your mother I'll have my bit of supper downstairs with 'er this evening. I'll go and take my bonnet off, and I'll be down in a minute." " Very good, mum," said the page boy, standing immovable for further orders until she went away. The good lady mounted the stairs and ventured a feeble tap at Esther's door. She received no answer, but could hear the inmate of the room marching up and down like a little caged tigress. At each extremity of the room she turned with a swirl of rustling skirts, and it was only after a minute's pause that her chaperon found courage to open the door. She thrust her head in with an ingratiatory smile, and found some trouble in 128 A RISING STAR. maintaining that expression in view of Esther's look. '' Is there anything you'd like me to do for you, dearie ? " she inquired in her oiliest manner. " No," said Esther shortly, without pausing in her walk. " Are you quite sure, Fairy dear ? Isn't there anything as I can bring you ? " Esther, for sole answer, launched the paper- bound part at Mrs. Jordan's head so vindictively and with so clear an accuracy that it knocked the good woman's bonnet off, and at this the young lady had a sudden access of laughter, which turned as suddenly to tears. There was a fine bout of hysteria after this, with cutting of stay laces, clap- ping of hands, and burning of feathers. The house reeked with pungent smoke, and his grace the A RISING STAR. I29 Duke of Belisle, arriving by the time the storm was over, withdrew swiftly to his own carriage. The albino family had prepared an excellent supper ; and Esther, in company with Mrs. Jordan and the servant, sat down to it in the kitchen in a state of mild deshabille. She had volubly exposed all her injuries before the meal was over, and found Mrs. Jordan sycophantic enough even to satisfy her exigent fancy. The excellent servitors of the household said nothing, and displayed no emotion of any sort. They ate and drank in a perfectly decorous and respectable fashion, and Esther's most familiar actions failed to draw them from the accurate semblance of respect with which they treated her. " You send a wire to old Bel. in the morning," said Esther, addressing the housekeeper, " and say VOL. II. 9 130 A RISING STAR. I want to see him. He's got to put this straight for me, and I'll see he does it." " Very well, miss," said the housekeeper : and all the upper windows of the house having been thrown open for the last hour or two to free the place of the smell of burned feathers. Miss Delacour retired to rest, flushed with the anticipa- tion of victory. CHAPTER XIV. Whilst the alterations were in progress at the Sheridan, Francis continued to borrow the stage of the FrivoHty for rehearsal. Miss Delacoiir presented herself there daily, and displayed an infinite variety of temper, of which the stage- manager took no more notice than if she had been in another hemisphere. The lady selected to play the title role had once been fresh and pretty, perhaps nearly as pretty as Esther herself; but that had been a long time ago. Deep crow's feet had invaded the corners of her eyes, her cheek had lost its natural (and had taken an (131) 132 A RISING STAR. artificial) bloom, and the gold of her hair was obviously less due to nature than to somebody's auricaneous hair-dye. The poor lady, in point of fact, was five and forty, and looked every year of her age, except behind the footlights, where she con- tinued somehow to expunge the facial record of some score of winters. She was tart with Esther, partly because she thought the girl had been un- duly promoted, and partly because, in the scenes they played together, Esther's genuine youth and beauty seemed likely to eclipse her faded imitation both of one and the other. Now and again at rehearsal. Miss Delacour provoked herself to the display of a spark of vivacity for the sake of showing the elder that if she chose to do it she could act her down ; but on the whole she did her work in a very perfunctory fashion, and A RISING STAR. 1^^ more than once came into collision with Francis, whom she found as impassive as a brick wall. " Not a bit like it ! " Francis would say. " Take that speech again." Esther would obey, with a sullen defiance in every tone and every feature of her face. " Worse than ever," was Francis' verdict. " Try back. You know perfectly well what's wanted, Miss Delacour, and you must do it. Try back." Once more Esther would obey, taking care to render no obedience. Then Francis would take her part from her, assume her place, and walk through the business, with a grotesque assumption of all the calineries and cajoleries the scene was intended to express. " That's how I want it ! " At the fourth or fifth lesson Miss Delacour, out 134 A RISING STAR. of sheer weariness of the contest, would give him something Hke what he wished for, and possibly would flash into some convincing bit of comedy, which showed how well she could have played the whole scene if she had been disposed to do it. The rehearsals had been in progress for a week when the inevitable storm came. The stage was all bare save for stacks of dusty scenery piled against the walls. A dozen gas jets flared dimly in the obscured daylight from a T piece in front of the footlights, and left the proscenium corners of the stage in shadow. The Little Widow had seen off her lover, and awaited the arrival of her maid. No maid appeared ; and the call-boy ran hither and thither, shouting " Miss Delacour ! " Francis, with the first act of the manuscript in A RISING STAR. 135 hand, tapped a foot impatiently on the stage and joined his voice to the call-boy's. " Miss Delacour ! Don't keep us waiting all day long. Miss Delacour ! Where are you ? " " Here is Miss Delacour," said the leading lady, pointing with one hand with a vivid gesture to the prompt corner. Francis walked hurriedly to the place indicated ; and there, as a matter of fact, Miss Delacour sat on a roll of carpet, with her part twisted into a spiral in her gloved hands, and both little feet sounding an angry tattoo on the boards. " Now then ! " said Francis, " what's all this about ? Come along." " Shan't," snapped Esther. " Get somebody else to play the part. I won't." She rose, and dashed the manuscript upon the ground. 136 A RISING STAR. " All right," said the manager ; " that's the first satisfactory thing you've done yet, young woman. Miss Carlton, you'll just walk through this scene with Miss Methven. You're a pretty quick study, and you'll have it pretty well right by morning." The young lady thus summoned approached, took the part from the manager's outstretched hand, and joining the representative of the Little Widow in the middle of the stage, at once began her business. Francis resumed his old position as if nothing had happened, and the indignant young lady in the corner was left to digest her own reflections. They were apparently difficult of digestion, for when she had choked in silence for a minute or two she walked to Francis, and addressed him with her little white teeth clenched A RISING STAR. t^^ together, and her little gloved fingers holding her palms with the grip of a vice. " Do you suppose, Mr. Francis," she began, monstrous fine-ladylike and mincing in her voice, "that any lady who is worth her salt will play second fiddle to an old frump like that ?" " Don't cross there. Miss Carlton," said the im- movable Francis. "You're too early. Don't move until 'ten thousand a year'. Then come down Right, to the table, and take up the work-basket." " Will you do me the honour, sir," said Esther, " to notice that I'm speaking to you ? " " Now the cross," said Francis, moving his head a little to watch the scene, but otherwise taking no notice of Esther's presence. " No, no, don't come down in front of the table. Get behind it. Don't show your back to the house. You 138 A RISING STAR. give a knowing smile there, that ought to be par- ticularly " He had no time to finish his sentence, for Miss Delacour dashed the manuscript he held from his hands to the stage. " Do you mean to talk to me ? " she asked, in a white heat of rage. " Ye Ñ es," he answered, drawling at the word. " I mean to talk to you, and I'd better talk at once. You've thrown up your part, and your engagement with it. Having done that, you can go." " Suppose I won't go? " she demanded. " In that case," he answered, with a weary want of interest, which impressed her a thousand times more than any noise or bluster could have done, "you'll be made to go." " Shall I ? " cried Esther. A RISING STAR. 139 "Jones!" said Francis, " Calcott ! just come here a minute." Two shirt-sleeved men who were at work at the back of the stage advanced at his call ; and Miss Delacour, recognising thus late the strong arm of authority, withdrew, drawing her figure to its full height and gathering her skirts aside with a shuddering exclamation of contemp- tuous disgust as she passed the Little Widow. That lady sublimely murmured "^ Toad ! " and Esther had cleared half a dozen yards before the divan's retort of " Hag ! " occurred to her. She felt that it was then too late to address that Parthian shot with dignity ; and so running wildly up the stone steps which led to the street, she plunged into the waiting brougham and gave the word for home. Mrs. Jordan had an excellent lunch prepared, 140 A RISING STAR. and was ready to lend a sympathetic ear to any story her charge might bring to her. She had the profoundest scorn for Miss Methven, and was prepared to relate a hundred details of that lady's career which were one and all to her discredit ; and she backed Esther with so much spirit and vivacity that in a while the young lady was able to sit down to the meal with some appetite, and after a glass or two of champagne quite smoothed her ruffled feathers altogether. His grace of Belisle looked in that afternoon, and found his young protegee in high spirits. She was a little afraid of telling him what had happened, but his first question forced her hard. " And how is the new part going ? " he asked, as he seated himself. A RISING STAR. 141 " I've thrown it up," she answered, with the utmost air of indifference she could assume. " Oh ! " said his grace, letting fall his eye-glass and re-adjusting it, " you've thrown it up, have you ? And what do you propose to do now ? " " I don't know," said Esther carelessly. She had been a little frightened by the duke at first, but she had ended by growing used to him, and in a week had been on terms of easy familiarity, as she was with everybody whom she knew for so long, or so short, a space of time. At first the idea that he was a duke had been oppressive; but, after all, a duke turned out to be no more than a very tired and blase old gentleman, to whom it was something of a trouble to mount a single flight of stairs, who said things which she could not understand, and who seemed in a quiet 142 A RISING STAR. way a good deal amused at himself for saying them, who pinched her cheek sometimes in a fatherly fashion, and who for some reason or other gave her pretty nearly everything she asked for. She knew that he admired her, and when once she had grown used to him she displayed all her little airs and graces before him with the vanity of a peacock. On the whole he bored her a little, and except when she could think of something to beg from him she took little pains to disguise the fact. The elderly gentleman found a pleasure even in her insubordination and indifference. He looked on her pretty much as he might have looked at a pet monkey or a kitten, or anything else mischievous and irresponsible. " And I suppose," said his grace, " that you don't greatly care ? " A RISING STAR. I43 " I'm sure I don't," she answered. " I shall find something to do, right enough ; and if I don't, I can always go back to Mark." Within her own limits she was very keen in ob- servation, and she had already had occasion to notice that the mention of Mark's name was not pleasant to her aged protector. But her experience was limited as yet, and she had used Mark once or twice too often when she had desired to emphasise her own independence. " Yes," returned his grace, quite calmly, " I sup- pose that is true. Mark would be glad to have you back again." He knew all about the Broom household and Jing and Juniper and Herr von Nadli, and was familiar with all the history of Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop's wickedness in his dealings with the 144 A RISING STAR. young aspirant to dramatic honours. He was accustomed to sit with a dry smile on his fine Mephistophelian face, and watch Esther's imitations of the various people with whom she had been familiar in her brief experience. Old Broom, a good actor of a fast vanishing school, had mannerisms so pronounced that he was known by them as by a trade-mark throughout the whole profession. Not a travelling company but had at least one member who could mimic his peculiarities with more or less success. Esther was ridiculously lifelike ; and though the duke had never heard of Mr. Broom until within the last week or two, he knew him so well that he could have recognised him in the street. He was familiar with the Herr von, and with Juniper ; but Mark's outward characteristics being less salient than A RISING STAR. ^45 theirs, he knew nothing of him except, dimly, that he was a newspaper hack in the provinces. " Mark's a dramatic author now," said Esther, noticing his grace's tone. " It was his piece I was going to play in." " Ah," said the old gentleman, " in that case, he'll be ever so much better able to help you. I'm told that dramatic authors make a good deal of money sometimes." " Mark says," returned Esther, " that Bonnington Wilstrop made a thousand pounds out of him." " So much ! " said the duke, lifting his darkened eyebrows and showing the tips of his white teeth in a little smile. " You will be able to fall back on Mark with a clear conscience." Esther looked at him doubtfully, and was already half disposed to cry. VOL. II. 10 146 A RISING STAR. " I'm not going to be a burden on my friends. I can find something else to do quite easily. I'm a great deal too pretty to be out of an engage- ment long." " That is perfectly true," said his grace, still smiling ; ¥' but why did you throw up the part in your old friend's piece ? I should have thought you would have been glad to play in it." "So I should," said Esther, "if they'd given me the proper part. Mark calls the play ' The Little Widow'. The Little Widow ought to be about nineteen, and as pretty Ñ as pretty as Ñ well, as she can be ; and they've got that Miss Methven to play it Ñ an old cat that's fifty if she's a day. Why, she's got a son that high, with a moustache, that might be in the Guards. She's got a figure like a maiding-tub. A RISING STAR. I47 " Like what sort of a tub?" his grace inquired, with a sparkHng air of interest. "A maiding-tub Ñ a dolly-tub," Esther explained. " The thing you dolly the clothes in when you wash." " I am enlightened," said the duke. " Complete your inventory of the lady's charms." Esther obeyed this request without understand- ing it. She was full of her theme ; and hatred, as is always the case with her sex, lent her eloquence. " I'd give the world to know," she flamed on, " how that old thing gets into her dresses. If she doesn't have to lace herself by machinery it's a pity. And she wears high-heeled shoes to make her feet look small. And she goes mincing about the stage like this. And she's got a cracked old voice, and wrinkles all round her eyes that you 148 A RISING STAR. could dig her grave in. And her teeth ain't real, nor her hair." " And Miss Methven," said his grace, " is to play the Little Widow, is she ? Do you know, my dear Miss Delacour," he always smiled when he addressed Esther by that name, " I remember Miss Methven when she was as pretty as you are?" " Then," said Esther, " you're a jolly lot older than I took you for." At this the duke laughed outright. He found f her more espiegle and delightful when she was at once insolent and vulgar than at any other moment. " I am old, my dear," he returned ; " a monu- ment of age." "You just think," cried Esther; " they'v^e got A RISING STAR. 149 me in the theatre and they let that old hag play the part. I asked Francis this morning if he fancied I was going to play second fiddle to an old frump like that. I know the piece backward. I used to rehearse it with Mark and Jing, and I always rehearsed for the Little Widow." She paused for a minute, her face sparkling with mis- chievous lightness. "You just wait half a jiffy, and I'll show you something." "How long will it take me to wait half a jiffy?" asked the old gentleman. " Oh, I don't know," Miss Delacour responded, " but half a jiffy." With that, she dashed from the room, and summoned Mrs. Jordan shrilly from the top of the stairs. Next she whisked into her bed- room, whence there came a nt)ise of eagerly opened drawers and doors. The duke leaned back 150 A RISING STAR. on the lounge he had chosen, and summoned his soul to patience. The first five minutes went by smoothly enough. The second lagged considerably, and each individual minute of the third dragged its slow length along as if it would never finish. At last the door which led from the boudoir to the bed- room opened quite silently, and Esther crossed the threshold, as yet unseen. The duke was fidgeting, and looked with an air of impatience at his watch. " Your grace," said a tremulous little voice behind him. He wheeled round and stared, stock still. '' This is the Little Widow, may it please you." Since her advent in Limesborough Gardens Mrs. Jordan had become a little coquettish in her attire, and was especially particular about her widow's caps. Esther had borrowed one of these, and a black dress which fitted her to a miracle. She had ar- A RISING STAR. 151 ranged a little soft white lace at her throat and wrists, and had brushed the rebellious red gold of her hair into a disorderly coquettish pretence at order. Her face expressed a demure complacency; but in the tail of her eye there gleamed a spirit of fun and devilry which made the whole countenance irresistibly piquant and mirth-provoking. The duke clapped his hands and sang out " Bravo ! " in a fuller chested note than he had used for many a day. " By Jove, that's ravishing ! Come here, you little baggage, and let me have a look at you." She advanced, and he walked round about her, inspecting her with a look of relishing approval. The muscles above and below the elderly gentle- man's eyes were a little lax and tired, so that he was no longer able to retain his eye-glass in posi- 152 A RISING STAR. tion when he smiled. He held it between thumb and finger therefore as he inspected, his face a mask of radiant wrinkles. He smiled so broadly that the gold wire showed in his white teeth, but recollecting himself in time composed his features a little be- fore facing Esther's glance. "Yes," he said, "that's capital!" He set his forefinger under the demure little chin, and Esther's lowered eyes rose slowly with an assumption of shyness until her glance just reached his own. Then, with a dazzling audacity, all made of inno- cent fun and of the very devil of mischief, she winked at him, and skipping back from the extreme tip of the toes of one foot to the extreme tip of the toes of the other, settled with crossed hands in a stately curtsy, and slowly rose to her own modest height again. A RISING STAR. I53 " And that," she said, with a sudden air of commonplace, " that's the Little Widow." " And upon my word," exclaimed his grace, " a very remarkably attractive little person." " That old Methven wretch won't look like that, will she?" asked Esther, wrinkling her pretty nose in disdain. " Well, no," his grace assented. " Methven won't look much like that." " I ought to play the part," declared Esther. " Look here. Lll give you a bit of it. You sit down there, and see how I can do it. Now I've got to be the Little Widow, and an Irish maid, and the family solicitor, and a snuffy old char- woman. Old Brown was to have played the family solicitor. You know him already. You haven't seen the maid, but she u.sed to live next door." 154 A RISING STAR. She plunged with an astonishing vivacity into the representation of the scene. The family solicitor was cross-examining the servants in the presence of their mistress. The charwoman was Mrs. Jordan to the life. The Irish maid was solidly stupid, with a wonderful Cork accent ; the widow was demure, with flashes of fun ; and the old solicitor was simply and good-naturedly pompous, and had an oily flavour in his mouth. The scene was written in a rare spirit of broad comedy, and the duke sat in quiet laughter from its beginning to its end ; and now and then, to signify express approval, made a noiseless motion of clapping hands. "There," said Esther, at the finish. "Isn't that as good as any of 'em ? " "Excellent!" cried the old gentleman, "Ex- A RISING STAR. I55 cellent indeed. But really your best assumption is that of the servant girl ! " "She hasn't got forty lines in the piece," Esther declared indignantly. " And besides that, do you think I am going to play a part like that, with a smut at the end of my nose ? " "Well, no," said his grace. "But is the sm.ut an essential? " " Of course it is," said Esther. " Whoever saw an Irish servant girl without it ? I shall play the Little Widow if I play anything. You'd think they wanted to wreck the piece the way they're casting it." " It's an unfortunate thing," said his grace, "that the experience which ripens art should be fatal to youth and beauty. When you know enough to play a pretty woman you'll have ceased to be one," 156 A RISING STAR. "That's rot," returned Esther; and at this retort her elderly admirer laughed with great heartiness. " I can play the part a great deal better than that old wretch, and what's more I can look it." "My dear," said the duke, "you must behave like a good child. I can make your peace with Glynne, and you must go back to-morrow and take up your rehearsal." " Shan't ! " said Esther, shaking herself from side to side, in a babyish way which gave her petu- lance a sort of prettiness. " Oh, but you must ! " said his grace. " And have that beast crowing over me ? " flashed Esther. " Not if I know it. Look here ! " she con- tinued, changing her manner with lightning rapidity, and becoming ludicrously suave and confidential. "You can do anything with Glynne, now, can't you?" A RISING STAR. I57 "Well, no," returned his grace, elevating his eyebrows. " I can't do 'anything' with Glynne." "Oh yes, you can!" she retorted, and seated herself beside him smiling. " You're the Duke of Belisle, and you've got more money than almost anybody else in the world ! " " Oho ! " said the duke, with a curious look at her from under his heavy and pendulous eyelids. " You can make almost anybody do almost any- thing," Esther continued, arranging his scarf with little pats and twitches, and leaning back with sidelong head to survey the result. " If you like to go to Mr. Glynne and tell him that Mr. Francis has been abominably rude to me " " My dear ! " returned his grace. " I am a very foolish old gentleman, but there is a limit to my folly. I never make mischief If you have any 158 A RISING STAR. complaint to make about Mr. Francis, you must make it yourself in the proper quarter." His manner was mild, and perfectly good- tempered ; but Esther felt that it was decisive, and saw that she had gone on the wrong tack. " I don't want to make mischief," she said hastily. " But he has made, all the same. Never mind that. I want to talk about the Little Widow. If you liked to go to Mr. Glynne and tell him that I was to play the part, of course he'd let me do it." She had completed the arrange- ment of his grace's scarf, and was now engaged, in apparent absent-mindedness, on the ducal whiskers. She had tried all these little airs and graces on old Brown, and had been accustomed to see him soften at his sternest under her cajoleries. The Duke of Belisle showed no dis- A RISING STAR. I59 approval of her infringement on his dignity, and she mounted from his whiskers to his hair, which she arranged fantastically with an admirable look of childish preoccupation. " My dear child, you can't play the part," the old gentleman answered. " Oh, but I can, though," she said reflectively. "You see the author's a friend of mine, and I've rehearsed the piece at home over and over and over again. I know exactly what he wants everywhere. Do let me play it. Now, won't you ? Ñ won ' t you ? " She had both hands buried in his crisp grey hair, and as she presented her petition she stooped down until her childish, innocent face was on a level with the duke's wrinkled visage, and very close to it. At each repetition of her l6o A RISING STAR. question she drew a little nearer, and when he failed to reply to her she showed none of her former petu- lant impatience. She surveyed the extreme tip of his grace's nose for something like a quarter of a minute, and buttoning up her little rosebud of a mouth reflectively kissed the spot she had selected. " Do let me play the part," she said, half kneel- ing to him. " Do, please ! " All his life long this naughty and foolish old gentleman had been a lover and victim of women. He was not so susceptible as he once had been, when it was " ask and have " for any pair of rosy lips or bright, petitioning eyes ; but he began to ask himself in his easy-going fashion why the little monkey shouldn't have her way. " You'll make a dreadful mess of it, you know," he said, half yielding. "You'll get A RISING STAR. l6l chaffed in all the newspapers. You'll probably get laughed at on the first night, and bring your friend's comedy to grief." " Oh no, I shan't," Esther answered. " You've no idea how I shall work. I shall study and study and study, and I shall be the biggest hit you've ever seen Ñ and then you'll be proud of me, won't you ? Do let me have it." She put both arms round his neck and laid her soft cheek against his face. " Do now, there's a dear ! " The Duke of Belisle was not the man to resist a petition thus presented. "You'll be deuced sorry for it," he said; "and so shall I, and so will Glynne, and so will every- body concerned." " Oh, you are a dear ! " cried Esther enthusi- VOL. II. II t62 a rising star. astically. " Thank you ! Thank you ! Thank you ! That's a promise." " I've been a fool all my days, my dear," said the duke. " It's absurd to think of mending at my time of life." CHAPTER XV. With Miss Methven's tears of rage and mortifica- tion this narrative has nothing to do. The poor lady had been engaged for the run of the piece, and threatened a lawsuit for the recovery of her salary. " If it runs five thousand nights," she declared, weeping, in Glynne's office, "Til be paid for every night." " All right, my dear," the badgered comedian responded, with his look of dead weary calm. " It's not my doing. I've arranged with the gentleman who is behind the scenes, and your (163) 164 A RISING STAR. claim will be satisfied to the last penny. You'll come to treasury every week just as if you were at work, and you're welcome to take an engage- ment anywhere else at the same time. You'll see in an hour or two that it isn't a bad thing for you." " I don't care about the money ! " cried the lady. " But to think of being thrown out by a chit like that ! I've been on the boards for five and thirty years." " Yes, my dear," said Glynne ; " that's the worst of it." She cast on him one glance of unutterable scorn, and left the house. She resented nothing so much as an allusion to her years ; and in this case she had no right to complain of it, for she her- self had made it. None the less she hated Glynne A RISING STAR. 165 with a momentary intensity which did something to solace her wounded pride. One nail drives out another, and for an hour or two she was too angry to be sore. " That old darling is going to give us a bit of trouble, Glynne," said the w^atchful Francis, who, # during the whole stormy interview, had nibbled at the tip of his pen with an air of placid boredom. " If there's any chance of getting the bird into the house on the first night she'll find a feather or two." "That's likely enough," Glynne assented. '' We must keep an eye on her. She's a bit passee, but she's got plenty of partisans, even now." "And," Francis added, "she's as spiteful as a sack of ferrets." l66 A RISING STAR. " My dear boy," Glynne answered drearily, " nothing matters very much, and you can't eat your cake and have it. I was dead certain old Belisle would want something for his money. I didn't think it would be anything so rotten stupid as this Ñ but it doesn't matter." Francis at rehearsal was a spectacle. Miss Delacour made her entree in triumph, with her bench woman behind her. She was clad in a splendid sealskin from throat to feet. She was exquisitely gloved and booted, and the dainty little hat she wore was a marvel of Parisian work- manship. " All right," the stage-manager murmured in Glynne's hearing. " Climb the greasy pole, my dear, and break your back at the bottom." The Methven partisans had their own opinion, A RISING STAR. 167 but they kept it to themselves. They were worthy people, but not too courageous. The rays of the rising star might be baleful or beneficent, pretty much in accordance with their own will, and they did homage to the new planet, with a more than oriental subserviency. The business of the stage began, and Francis lay in ambush until the first entrance of the Little Widow. The rehearsal went with amazing smoothness, and until that point was reached the stage-manager, who usually wanted everything done a dozen times over, made not a single comment. When Miss Delacour appeared he gave a feeble, hollow groan, expressive of despair, resigned from the beginning. "Try it again," he murmured manfully. "Go back to *Go where glory waits you'. Miss Carlton, come back. Take it up at * Go where glory waits l68 A RISING STAR. you'. Try and remember, Miss Delacour, you're not promenading down Bond Street. You're break- ing in on a conversation that interests you. You hear your own name mentioned. Try and look as if you suspected that, will you ? " " It's the first time," said Esther curtly, " that I ever knew that people were expected to act at first rehearsal." " You'll learn a lot of things for the first time before you're through with this business," said Francis, with a despondent moan. The Little Widow's entrance came again, and this time Miss Delacour came on eager and attentive enough. Francis groaned softly, and suffered the scene to proceed for a minute or two. Then he laid down his shining silk hat on the table before him and clutched his hair with both his hands. In A RISING STAR. 169 that attitude he Hstened for perhaps a minute, ex- pressing a piquant disquietude by occasional twitch- ings of the legs. " Upon my word," he said, at last, " you might try to make it something like! " Esther had reached the theatre inspired by a complete sense of victory, and this reception of her maiden effort was, to say the least of it, disconcert- ing. She struggled on, however, feeling herself more artificial every second. '' Let me explain, my dear," said Francis, inter- rupting her in the middle of a brilliant little speech, which Miss Delacour was declaiming in a fashion which she herself knew to be oddly unlifelike. " You haven't come to bury Caesar this time. I don't know that the author's opinion counts for much, but he calls it a comedy. I merely mention 170 A RISING STAR. it," he added, " because I think he'd hke it to be played his own way." " I know what the author wants, Mr. Francis," said Miss Delacour, with dignity. "I've rehearsed the part with him a hundred times, and I know his business a jolly lot better than you do." "I'm glad of that," said Francis; "but I'm trying to teach you yours." Glynne drew him aside and whispered to him : " Give it a rest, old man. She's bound to be bad enoug-h, but the best actress in the world couldn't live through that. She may be middling decent, if you'll help her ; but the Lord only knows what 'she'll be like if you spoil her nerve from the jump." Francis went back to his table without verbal response, and watched the rest of the scene with the expression of one accepting irremediable A RISING STAR. I7I disaster. He said nothing, and offered no gesture of disapproval ; but he looked as if the end of the world were coming, and he alone of all men saw it. When the Little Widow's business was over he brightened visibly, as who should say, " Hope still remains," and when she appeared again he walked dejectedly from the stage, resigning everything. Esther began to think it might have been wiser on the whole not to have insulted the stage-manager, who certainly had remarkable powers of annoyance if he chose to use them. She had succeeded in getting her own way, and was already half dis- posed to regret it. Before the day's work was over, her disposition was entirely that way. The last scene of the first act was reached, and with it came the first touch of real feeling the Little Widow had to show. In her own heart and mind 172 A RISING STAR. Esther knew as well as anybody that the expres- sion of that sort of emotion was not in her line. She had always thought the words and sentiment of the speech vapid and silly, though when Jing or Mark himself had spoken it they had always seemed to find it affecting. She ran the words through anyhow, and Francis cut her short with a crescendo of despair. " No ! no ! no ! " '' I know very well what it ought to be," said Esther, choking between anger and the shame of being thus exposed in the first hour of triumph ; " but how do you think anybody's going to act while you are grinning and groaning there ? " " Go on," said Francis, from the depths of a pro- found dejection. " Do it how you like. It doesn't matter." A RISING STAR. I73 A new-comer, obviously unused to the house, had groped his way down the stone steps which led to the stage, and stood blinking for a minute in the half-light, uncertain of his whereabouts after the bright sunshine out of doors. Francis was the first to catch sight of him, and walking over to him, shook hands. "We're all at sixes and sevens yet," he said, " but we shall begin to shape into something in a day or two. We'll take the first act again, ladies and gentlemen," he added, turning round and ad- dressing the company. The new-comer grew accustomed to the changed light, and recognised Esther. " Oh, that you, Mark ? " she answered curtly to his salutation. '' Things are going anyhow this morning. Everybody's in a bad temper." 174 A RISING STAR. The young dramatic author scanned his late charge in some amazement. There were few people more ignorant than himself with respect to the attire of women and its cost, and he would not have undertaken on oath to decide between sealskin and its plush imitation. But Esther's dress looked expensive even to his uninstructed fancy, and he wondered a little how she came by it. His first thought was that she looked a little pale, and that she might be denying herself neces- saries to buy finery. That would be rather like the child, he thought. There are liquids holding chemical combina- tions in solutions which will remain clear for ages until the mixture is agitated, when it crystallises instantly. The same thing is true of the human emotions ; and if Esther had not run away, Mark A RISING STAR. I75 might have gone on for another year or two without discovering that he was in love with her. The fact was clear enough to him now ; and yet he had a fair understanding of the girl, and knew her better than ninety-nine men in a hundred ever get to know anybody. He saw her faults clearly ; but to his mind they were all the mere little trivial follies of youth, easily to be chased away by years and experience. To have been told the plain truth about her, to have heard that she was a peripatetic Want, without affection or sympathy or loyalty, would simply have enraged him. And yet all his observation and knowledge of her pointed to that conclusion. " You're in the piece ? " he asked, too occupied with his own reflections to heed her manner for the moment. She nodded with weary eyebrows and 176 A RISING STAR. lowered lids. "That's right," he added heartily. " What are you doing ? " " I'm rehearsing the title part," said Esther, with outward coolness and inward trepidation. " By Jove ! " he answered, " that's a chance for you ! Are they allowing you to understudy Miss Methven already? That's capital ! " Esther postponed the evil hour and said nothing. Mark took a seat at Francis' side, and for the second time the first act began once more to unroll itself. Mark was a little excited, for this was the first occasion on which he had ever sat on the boards of a London theatre, and his own work was actually being prepared before him, by actors and actresses with whose reputation he had, for the most part, been long familiar. His own knowledge of his excitement kept him quiet for a time ; but by- A RISING STAR. 177 and-by, when he could command an air of common- place, he spoke to Francis. " I hope there's nothing wrong with Miss Meth- ven. How is it she's not able to be here to-day ? " " Glynne hasn't told you ? " Francis asked, with his quaint sideway look. " Methven's out of it." ''Out of it!'" Mark repeated. "Not playing? What's the matter? Doesn't she like the part?" *' Liked the part very well," Francis responded. " Savage as a tiger at not being allowed to play it." " But who can you get in her place ?" Mark asked. "That's the little party," said Francis, nodding towards Esther. " Between ourselves, Mr. Stanley," pursued the stage-manager, " I think your play ought to have a better chance. If my opinion's worth any- thing it ought to be a go. As it is, I wouldn't give a row of pins for it." VOL. II. 12 178 A RISING STAR. "But what's the matter?" cried Mark. "Mr. Glynne guaranteed a first-class cast and a first- class production." Francis merely shrugged his shoulders and flirted the leaves of the MS. book on the table before him. " What's the matter ? " Mark insisted. " Who plays the Widow ? " " Miss Delacour," said Francis. " Impossible ! " Mark shouted, springing to his feet. " Impossible or not, it's so," Francis responded. " I hope you'll make a row about it. I should, in your place. There's Glynne in the cover there talking to Howard. You'd better go and see him." Mark walked swiftly over to the lessee, and shook hands with him cordially enough. " What's this about the title role ? " he asked at once. " My dear boy, it's the most fantastical piece of A RISING STAR. 179 nonsense in the world," said Glynne. " I'm sorry for you, and I'm sorry for myself, and I'm sorry for the piece ; but I can't help it." "But it's impossible!" said Mark, repeating himself. " We can't talk it out here," Glynne responded, noting that one or two of the bystanders had turned at the sound of Mark's excited voice. " Come into my office. They've been good enough to place a room at my disposal here whilst my own place is repairing." Mark followed, scarcely believing himself awake. " The child has no experience," he began, before the room was reached. " She'll make an actress one of these days, and, unless I'm much mistaken, a very fine one ; but she could no more play that part at present than I could play it myself." l80 A RISING STAR. " Quite right, my boy," said Glynne, holding the door open for him to pass. " It's as silly a thing as ever was done in a theatre, and thafs saying something." The whole thing grew to Mark's fancy more and more mysterious. Here was the lessee and chief comedian of the house agreeing with the stage- manager that the appointment was preposterous. What possible influences could be at work outside? He was too astonished as yet to offer the inquiry, but it was in his mind. " I can't pretend to teach you your business, Mr. Glynne," he began ; " but the whole fate of the piece depends upon the Widow." " I know that, dear boy," the other answered, with more than his common air of weariness. "But, in plain English, I'm not in a position to help myself. A RISING STAR. lol Old Belisle has taken a fancy to the little baggage, and has made up his mind to ram her down the public throat, willy-nilly." " Belisle ? " asked Mark, with a strange, tremulous shock at the heart. " Who is Belisle ? " " The Duke of Belisle," Glynne answered. " Everybody knows old Belisle. One of the richest men in England, and more of a slave to a pretty face than any man alive." "A child like that!" Mark gasped. All the colour had forsaken his cheeks, and he trembled violently. His agitation was physical and unmis- takable, though, warned by Glynne's weary watch- ful eye, he did his best to contain himself. " He's harmless enough," said Glynne. " He's seventy-five if he's a day. Quite a grandfatherly old party." He read the case by instinct, and, tired l82 A RISING STAR. as he was, he had a sort of pity for his companion. He judged it best on the whole to maintain an everyday tone and to pretend to have noticed nothing. "There's one thing you can do," he went on, " but I shouldn't advise you to do it. It's per- fectly within your competence to refuse to allow the piece to be played. There's nothing quite so uncertain in this world as a theatrical production, but I think that the piece is good enough to live that little woman down. The chances are she'll be laughed off the stage in the first week. I shall have to stand the racket, for all the papers will be asking what brings a man of my experience shoving a greenhorn into a part like that. The little girl's clever, mind you," he added, thinking vaguely that his laudation of her might please Mark, " and in another year or two the post might fit her like a A RISING STAR. 183 glove. At present, of course, she's simply impos- sible." " I've heard about this Duke of Belisle," said Mark. He had seated himself unconsciously, the action dictated by a failure at the knees, and he now sat drumming on the table. " Wasn't there some scandal between him and Countess Ñ some- body Ñ in Italy? " " And Duchess somebody else In Russia, and a Lady something else in Scotland, Princess what's-her-name in Berlin, Baroness what's-her- name in Paris, and Totties and Lotties and Dotties by the half-hundred. Oh, yes. He has lived his life and played his game, has Belisle. Everybody knows that about him. But he's learned Solomon's lesson now, dear boy Ñ Vanitas vanitatum, I'm told there are old 184 A RISING STAR. men who give up their vices ; so there may be, but I never saw any. They say the great Sahara was a sea once on a time. The Mediterranean sHpped away from it and left it high and dry. There's old Belisle." Mark sat, the picture of misery, drumming on the table* '' He's a fickle old beggar," pursued Glynne, " and he may drop her at any minute, like a hot potato. But so long as the fancy lasts, he'll be of use to her. He's a jealous old beggar, too, mind you, and he won't have anybody else fool- ing round the girl. He'll make a capital watch- dog, and she'll come to no harm whilst under his protection." " No girl," said Mark, " can live under such conditions and keep her character ; let her be as A RISING STAR. 185 innocent as a daisy, her reputation must be smirched." " Not a bit of it, dear boy," Glynne answered ; " two of Belisle's recent fancies have married very handsomely. People laugh at him, but when he takes a fancy to a pretty face the owner of it is counted lucky. He's a silly old sensualist, retired from business ; and he likes to have a pretty girl about him." *' I must put a stop to this," cried Mark, rising and walking up and down the room, with a pale face and gloomy eyes. " Well," said Glynne, " I don't suppose you've any special authority over the young woman. If you like to write to Belisle, and threaten to with- draw the piece " " I'm not thinking of the piece," said l86 A RISING STAR. Mark, interrupting him, " I'm thinking of the girl." '' Pin thinking of the piece," Glynne retorted. " She'll do her little best to murder it, and that's a pity, for I think there's money in it if it was competently played." ]\Iark^ striding up and down the room, with his hands tight clenched in his side pockets, paid no heed to his companion, but pausing suddenly, spoke with his face to the wall. " Could I have a talk with her here ? " " Not yet, dear boy. I can't afford to stop rehearsal. She's going to be bad enough in any case, but that's no reason we should rob her of what chance she has ! " He was fairly near the truth in his estimate of the position of affairs. He was very far from A RISING STAR. 187 being in love with Miss Delacour, and he had seen a good deal of her vanity, and a little of her temper. In his own tired, cynical, man-of-the- world fashion, he was rather sorry for the young fellow, but he pretended to suspect nothing. " If you think," he said, "that you'll get that little baggage to leave Belisle you've got very little know- ledge of her. She's one of those young people to whom the loaves and fishes are valuable. It's in your power to take the piece away, but I shouldn't counsel that, for the reasons I've given already." " No," said Mark heavily, " I don't want to do that. I don't much care what becomes of it." The comedy had been dear as the apple of his eye only an hour ago. He had thought of it night and day for months, and ever since its acceptance by Glynne it had been the core and centre of his l88 A RISING STAR. life, the axle from which everything radiated and round which everything revolved. Now he was quite cold and indifferent about it. The path of peril on which Esther had entered seemed to lie broadly and clearly before him, and he could see nothing but ruin at the end of it. That she was innocent and took everything with a childlike simplicity he never doubted for a moment, but the thought of her associations with that old roue of a Belisle burned him like fire. The very unconscious- ness of the selfish ingratitude with which Esther had received the benefits he himself had heaped upon her had helped to hide her real character from him. He had found no fault with that in- gratitude in his own mind. It had seemed natural that he should give her everything, and inevitable that she, child as she was, should accept his A RISING STAR. l8g generosities as her right. She was too young to think of these things ; too generous, Mark thought fondly, to think much of another's generosity. " Well, dear boy," said Glynne, " I'm busy. I must get back again. You'd better come and look at the rehearsal, and if you like to write me a note which I can show Belisle, we may persuade him to put a stop to this absurdity. I don't think that's very likely, but it's worth trying." Mark assented, languidly enough, and they went back to the stage together. Francis was pursuing his original tactics there, and Miss Delacour was growing more and more uncomfortable. She flashed out as Mark reached the stage. " If I'm not let alone I can't do anything." "My dear child," returned Francis, "you can't do anything whether you are let alone or no." igO A RISING STAR. Esther, turning indignantly, caught sight of Mark, and made a motion as if she would approach him ; but he looked so stern and miserable that her courage failed her, and she walked away with wrath and defiance in her gait and the carriage of her head. " Go through the scene, anyhow," said Francis, with an accent of dreary despair exaggerated to the verge of burlesque. Esther came back, wrathfully, and did his bid- ding. Francis stood in front of her like a statue of patient misery. Glynne, on the prompt side, nursed his chin and looked on with an expression of fine dejection, and facing him at the other side of the stage Mark stood gloomily. If the spoilt child had had the genius and experience of a Bern- hardt she could not, in these surroundings, have done A RISING STAR. IQI justice to her work. Under the most favourable circumstances she was bound to be inefficient and amateurish ; but, as things stood, she grew piteously wooden and inept, and throughout a scene of spark- ling gaiety was obviously on the verge of tears. " Look here, Francis," said Glynne quietly, " this won't do at all. Go and have a drink, my boy, and come back in half an hour. I'll take this on." Francis disappeared, and the comedian took his place. He began to instruct the dehitante with great kindness and patience, and made his manner so warm and cordial that in a little while Esther brightened up and began to speak her lines with spirit and intelligence. "Yes," said Glynne, "that's better; keep it at that height, and with practice you'll do very well. ig2 A RISING STAR. indeed," (" That's the only Hne to take with her," he whispered to Mark, who had strolled down to him. " She'll work for praise, but she'll do nothing if she's discouraged. We don't want her to be altogether ridiculous on the night.") The rehearsal came to a close, and the per- formers were dismissed with a '' Thank you, ladies and gentlemen," from Glynne. " See if my carriage is outside," said Esther, to a youthful nondescript, who crossed the stage at that moment. She caught Mark's glance almost as she spoke, and blushed vividly. " Your carriage ! " said Mark, with an indefinable tone and look, which she felt more humiliating than anything she had ever known. " You didn't know I had a carriage ? " she said, trying, with very poor success indeed, to return to A RISING STAR. ig3 her old fashion of childish cajolery. " The Duke of Belisle gave it me." She had been afraid of Mark about this matter all along, and had been certain of his gravest disapproval. She hardly knew why, but even now, when she had found a protector so much more wealthy and powerful, she wanted to stand well with Mark. Nobody else had ever obtained such an ascendancy over her. " You are going home ? " asked Mark curtly. She assented by a mere notion of the head. " I'll go with you. I have a good many things to talk about." Esther had wished for anything rather than this, but she had no face to resist. The nonde- script boy, shouting from the flight of stone steps which led to the street that the carriage was out- VOL. II. 13 194 A RISING STAR. side, and Mark leading the way to it, she followed. The brougham was unexceptional in style, as might have been expected from the wealth and taste of its purchaser. The horses were splen- didly groomed and appointed. The coachman and his companion were liveried in solemn splendour. The whole equipage, in fine, was as exquisitely finished as if his grace of Belisle had intended it for his own use. The footman opened the door, and when Mark and Esther had entered closed it behind them, and stood deferentially waiting until the word " home " was given him. " This belongs to you ? " said Mark, turning to look at his companion. She had partly recovered herself by this time, and was prepared with the first lines of the new scene in which she had to play. A RISING STAR. ig5 "Yes," she said, "it's mine. Just think of that ! The duke sent it to me a month ago. Wasn't it kind of him ? I think it's lovely. I've been out in the Park in it lots of times, and I've never seen anything prettier. It's quiet, but it looks good and rich, doesn't it, Mark ? " " Yes," said Mark scornfully. " It looks a great deal too good, and a great deal too rich." " Oh, but that's like the duke, you know," cried Esther, clapping her little gloved hands together, and turning to him with a bright smile. " He's such a generous man. Oh, he zs such a dear old gentleman. I was quite afraid of him at first, because he was a duke ; but I got quite used to him in a day or two, and now he's just like a beautiful old fairy godfather." "H'm!" said Mark. 196 A RISING STAR. " I shall introduce you to him," Esther went on, "and he'll do lots of things for you, because you're a friend of mine. He'll do anything to please me, Mark, and they say he's one of the richest men in England. There isn't a theatre in London where he couldn't get a piece on, and I shall tell him how clever you are, and how good you've been to me, and you'll see, Mark, I'm going to make your fortune." " I think not," said Mark, so frostily that all her pretence of generous gaiety was frozen for the moment. He sank back in a corner, and sat with folded arms, staring blindly out of the window. She had looked so sparkling, so innocent, so in- fantine in her simplicity, whilst she had spoken of her noble patron and his affection for her, that he would have been a cynical man indeed who had A RISING STAR. Ig7 dared to think her conscious of the peril of her position. " The poor silly child doesn't know," he said in- wardly, " to what misconceptions she is exposing herself" The carriage rolled smoothly along, and both Esther and Mark kept silence. In due time they reached Limesborough Gardens, and entered the house together. Mrs. Jordan opened the door at Esther's summons, and met Mark with a face of blank amazement ; but, recovering herself in a moment, broke into a conveying welcome. The young man cut her speech short. " I have a great deal to say to you, Esther. Where can I speak to you ? " Esther led the way to her own room, and Mark looked mournfully about him there, noting the 198 A RISING STAR. exquisite decorations of the walls and the costly beauty of the furniture. " Has the Duke of Belisle given you this as well? " he asked. " Oh, no," said Esther. " I pay rent for this. Mrs. Jordan is caretaker of the house, and she lets me this room and the next." " What right has she to let them ? " Mark asked. "You can't afford to pay any reasonable rental here." " I pay a pound a week," Esther returned, pant- ing. "You don't seem half glad to find me well off, Mark." He turned and looked at her with a mournful scrutiny. " The house belongs to the Duke of Belisle, of course," he said. A RISING STAk. igg " Well, I believe it does," Esther returned, " and I don't think if anybody else owned it I should get it half so cheap. I really think, Mark, that he put Mrs. Jordan into the house to take care of it, just on purpose that she might let these rooms to me. Oh, I'm not going to talk to you if you look at me like tliat ! You are cross. I believe you're selfish, Mark, and jealous about my good luck. No ! I don't mean that, because you're the kindest man in the world yourself, aren't you, Mark? " She played upon him with all the artillery of her pretty, innocent, half-childish, half-womanly ways ; but Mark gloomed at her with so heart-broken and accusing a look that she was obliged to turn away with a pretence of petulance. '' I don't like you a bit. You're nothing like the Mark you used to be." 200 A RISING StAR. It struck Mark to the heart to suspect for the first time that she was acting. He began to beheve in spite of himself that she knew the gravity of his disapproval and was striving to hide her own embarrassment. He tried to draw in the thought as unworthy of himself and her, but it clung persistently. "This won't do, Esther," he said, after a minute's silence. "I must talk to you seriously, and if I say unpleasant things to you you must understand that they are said for your good. You're not a child any longer, and you cannot behave as a child. The Duke of Belisle has no right to offer you any- thing, and you have no right to accept anything from him. You must send your carriage back to him, and you must leave this house and live in rooms that you can afford to pay for." A RISING STAR. 201 '' Indeed I shan't send the carnage back," said Esther. " My dear," urged Mark, " you're almost too young to understand what mischief you are doing lo yourself. If it should get to be generally known that you are living here, and that you, with your salary, are driving about in a carriage with a coach- man and footman, you can't guess what will be thought and said about you." "What can anybody say about me?" she answered. " What can anybody think about me ? To hear the way you talk, and to see how you look, any- body might think I had done something very dreadful." " My dear," cried Mark, " you are too young and inexperienced to understand the position in which you have placed yourself. The Duke of Belisle is 202 A RISING STAR. a man from whom no really good and modest woman would accept anything." v " Mark ! " cried Esther, flushing to the roots of her hair, " do you mean to say that I am not good and modest ? How dare you ? Oh ! nobody ever dared to say such a thing as that to me before." And with that she dropped into a chair and began to cry. " I have said nothing of the sort, dear," said Mark, trying in vain to soothe her. " I have not thought anything of the sort. Your youth and inexperience are your excuses. Everybody who knows the world will tell you that what you are doing is destroying your own character. I love you too well to let you do that." He spoke sternly and coldly, but his heart was like ice and fire in one within him. "You must send back whatever A RISING STAR. 203 the duke has given you, and you must accept nothing more from him." " I shan't do anything of the sort," she flashed at him through her tears. " You're a nasty, horrid thing, Mark, and I hate you ! What have I done to be talked to Hke this ? Oh ! what have I done ? " " The child doesn't know," Mark mused, and stood looking down at her, feeling altogether desperate and enraged. " My dear, you've got to listen and to understand. It's very dreadful to have to tell you, but you are in a dreadful position. If you stay here no good woman will have a word to say to you. You will ruin your whole future, and you will cover yourself with a terrible suspicion. You are too young and too ignorant of the world to guess what you are doing ; but the Duke of Belisle, who you are so simple as to think is your 204 A RISING STAR. friend, could tell you well enough what his friend- ship is doing for you." " He is my friend ! " sobbed Esther. " A better friend than on ^x you were." " He is your bitterest enemy ! " Mark declared stormily. " He has ruined scores of girls as innocent and unsuspicious as yourself The hoary old infamy ! There is no greater scoundrel living at this hour in England than the Duke of Belisle!" " Indeed, sir ! " said a smooth voice behind him, and Mark wheeling swiftly round saw in the door- way an old gentleman, scrupulously dressed and groomed. The old gentleman wore an eye-glass with a black ribbon, and showed a lovely set of white teeth in a formal smile. His hair and his little bits of side whisker were venerably white, and his head doddered with a movement of incipient A RISING STAR. 205 palsy. He had half drawn off the glove from his right hand, and stood arrested in that action, stoop- ing slightly forward as if in acknowledgment of a courtesy. " I have not the honour of your acquaint- ance, sir," he said, " but you use my name with some freedom." CHAPTER XVI. Mark had experienced a warm glow of virtuous indignation whilst he denounced the duke, and even now he felt that he was strongly armed in honesty; but for all this he was taken utterly aback, and both looked and felt foolish in the unexpected presence of the man he had assailed. "You are the Duke of Belisle, sir?" he stam- mered. " I am the Duke of Belisle," the old gentleman responded with great simplicity. " I do not think I have the pleasure to know you, sir." He was perfectly at ease and suave in manner, (206) A RISING STAR. 207 and so completely contemptuous of his assailant that he did not even look contempt or seek to express it in the tone of his voice. " My name is Stanley," said the young dramatist. " Mark Stanley. Until a few weeks ago I was this child's guardian." He was taken by surprise, and spoke haltingly. He had not formed to himself any definite idea of what the Duke of Belisle would look like ; and this stately and self-possessed old man, with his title and splendid fortune behind him, was a little terrible. Mark was a plebeian pure and simple, the son of a rustic shopkeeper, and owed all his education and his social training to himself. He had spoken to an Irish viscount once, and there his knowledge of the aristocracy of these king- doms began and ended. He was not cowed, but 208 A RISING STAR. he was taken at a disadvantage, and for the moment he was overawed. The chances are that if he had spoken of a social equal in such terms as he had applied to the duke, and had been challenged at the moment of their utterance, he would have felt an almost equal embarrassment. "Thank you, Mr. Stanley," said the duke, moving a little to one side, and pressing the button of an electric bell. "That will do. One of my servants will show you to the door." He was smiling still, and wore an unchangeable look of courtesy and self-possession. " I beg your pardon, sir," said Mark, partly recovering himself " I must decline to leave your house at present. I must ask you to listen to me. If you are a man at all, and if you have a A RISING STAR. 209 man's heart, I may perhaps persuade you to let this dehided child go away from here." " My dear sir," said the duke, seating himself and removing his gloves, " I was a man once Ñ say half a century ago Ñ who would have resented with some warmth the terms in which you have seen fit to describe me. I cannot at this time of day afford myself the pleasure of throwing you through the window, or of kicking you down- stairs, and I believe there is no male domestic in the house. I am a very old man, and am naturally at your mercy. For the moment only Ñ you understand, Mr. Stanley." " Your grace cannot fail to know," said Mark, trembling from a mixture of emotions, " that this child is gravely compromised by your as- sociation with her." VOL. II. 14 210 A RISING STAR. " Come in ! " said the duke, in answer to a rap from outside. " Show this gentleman out." The white-eyebrowed, pink-eyed page boy stood rigid at the door. " Not yet," said Mark, with all the self-control he could command. " I have something to say to your grace before I go." "Very well," said his grace uninterestedly. "You may go, Cheston ; you may go." The page boy withdrew, closing the door noise- lessly behind him. The Duke of Belisle was in no hurry to relieve Mark of his embarrassment. He showed this plainly by rising and walking to the window ; there he turned his back upon his unwelcome visitor. Esther was in such an extremity of fear that she had ceased to cry, but looked from one A RISING STAR. 211 to the other with clasped hands and tear-stained face. Her aspect was so piteous that Mark stooped to lay an assuring hand upon her shoulder, and whispered to her not to be afraid. " I was saying, sir," he began, Ñ but the duke offering no sign of any knowledge of his existence, he stopped short for a moment, Ñ " I was saying, sir, that you cannot fail to know what damage you are inflicting on this poor child's reputation. That is very little to you, I have no doubt ; but it is much to her, and much to me. She ran away from her old protectors thoughtlessly, in some mere childish pique. She is clever, and she has it in her power, with the help of her friends, to make a reputation for herself." The duke walked to a bookshelf, took down a tiny volume in white and gold, opened its pages at 212 A RISING STAR. random, sat down, and began to read with every appearance of tranquillity. ''You have no right," said Mark, confused and heated by the other's coldness Ñ " you have no right to imperil her future. You have no right to smirch her reputation." The duke turned over the leaves of the dainty little volume he held, found a new passage, and yawned over it ever so little, as if it bored him. As for any token he gave of Mark's presence, the young man might have been in another hemi- sphere, or in another planet. " You shall hear me, sir," cried Mark, raising his voice. " I suffer from some of the infirmities of age, Mr. Stanley," said the duke, " but deafness is not one of them." A RISING STAR. 213 "You shall listen to me," said Mark. "You shall listen to what I have to say. Leave the room, Esther." Half to his surpri.se the girl obeyed him. " Now, sir, it is my duty to speak plainly." " You seem to think so, Mr. Stanley," said the duke. " I shall ask you to be as brief as possible." " This child Ñ for she is still no more than a child Ñ was in my care for years. What educa- tion she has had I have given her. What hopes of honest advancement in the world she has she owes to me. You know well enough that her association with you can only lead to ruin. She has not been used to luxury, and for years to come her own talents can find her nothing like this. She is acquiring tastes which she cannot gratify, she is earning a reputation which I am 214 A RISING STAR. certain in my soul she does not deserve, she is being unfitted for the hard rubs of life " " My good sir," said the duke, waving an im- patient hand against him, " suppose all this said. Suppose everything understood. The theme is not novel, and your eloquence adds no charm to it. You waste yourself on me, Mr. Stanley. Persuade the young lady, if you can, that it is worth her while to resign the advantages of her present position. You will find me perfectly acquiescent." " She is too much a child to understand the gravity of her position," the young man answered boldly. " You understand it perfectly, and so do I. When your whim is over you would throw the child aside as you have done scores of others, and leave her soured and embittered, if nothing A RISING STAR. 215 worse, to face poverty and labour after this life of enervating luxury." " You fatigue me, Mr. Stanley," said the duke. " You're an old man, sir," Mark began again. " That," interjected his grace, " is the one fact to which you owe your present immunity." His manner was quite amiable and smiling through it all, and Mark felt a sense of impotent exasperation before him. This gave way on a sudden to a feeling of contemptuous anger. " If you were younger, sir," he said, " I might use more freedom. You are old, and unless all men are liars you have lived a shameless, shame- ful, baneful life from your youth up. If your own grey hairs make no appeal to you I am not likely to touch you very deeply. You have brought a great name into contempt, you have been a 2l6 A RISING STAR. roue to the whole world's knowledge for half a century, and now you're a senile laughing- stock. If that place in the world's esteem is worth retaining " " You're an ill-bred ruffian ! " cried the duke ; for Mark had found the one arrow to pierce the armour of his indifference, and he rose to his feet suddenly livid, and shaking with rage. " Leave this house instantly or I will give you into custody." " On what charge, sir ? " Mark asked, with a savage derision. " The public investigation of our differences in a police court might be agreeable to neither of us, but I assure 3/our grace that I shall make no effort to avoid it." The duke sat down with shaking hands, the incipient palsy with which his head nodded on A RISING STAR. 217 his shoulders was accentuated, and his face was ghastly pale. Mark strode across the room to the door through which Esther had passed, and rapped loudly upon it. Esther, who had been listening from within, opened the door and looked out with large frightened eyes and a pale face. Mark had a glimpse of the dainty interior of the room beyond, which was even more delicate and costly in its appointments than the one he stood in. " Come here, Esther," he said, and stood aside to make way for her. She obeyed him unquestioningly, and stood before him like a child who is about to be chidden for some serious fault. " Get ready at once to leave this shameful house!" 2l8 A RISING STAR. She winced a little, but made no other motion. "You shall be taken care of," he went on mor gently. " You shall want for nothing which I have power to give you. Come with me." He made a motion to take her by the hand, but she drew back from him, and looking him full in the face with her frightened eyes shook her head with an almost imperceptible gesture of refusal. " Esther ! I command you ! Come with me ! " She met him with the same negative, but did not speak a word. The duke turned his shaking head upon his shoulder and watched the pair. Mark, advancing, took the girl's hand in his, drew it through his arm, and made a movement to depart. She drew herself suddenly away and retreated to the wall, where she stood, shrinking and panting. A RISING STAR. 219 " Esther ! " said Mark, in a voice which bespoke the tumult and anguish of his heart, "I have told you already what it means for you to be under this man's protection. My dear, it is an outrage that he should touch you by the hand. There is a contamination in his very presence. He has no right to breathe the same air with you Ñ to look at you. Come with me." " No," she said, and shook her head again. Her lips shaped rather than spoke the word ; but there was no mistaking the meaning, and for a moment Mark stood aghast. " You will stay here ? " he demanded, " after all I have told you about this man ? You can know that he has led scores of young girls to ruin, and remain under his protection of your own free will ? No, no, my dear, you don't understand. You're 220 A RISING STAR. too young, too ignorant of the world ; but if you knew what the Duke of BeHsle is, if you knew what it will cost you to be here, you would run from this house as if it were infected with the plague ! " She kept her lovely frightened eyes on his with an unwinking regard, but her face slowly hardened as he spoke, until it wore a look of mingled terror and malice. " Come with me, Esther ! " he implored her, with a voice which barely served him. "Come with me." " No ! " she said. " I shall stay where I am. I'm not going back to Birmingham, and I'm not going back to Mrs. Jordan's lodgings. Don't you believe it, Mark." The heartless little beauty's accent had coarsened, and the vulgarity of her childish speech peeped out A RISING STAR. 221 again. There was something in that which, for Mark's heart, added a pang to the pain her refusal brought him. ''Think one minute, Esther," said Mark. " I don't want to think," she answered. " I know when I'm well off. I'm going to stop here." " We have been friends for a long while now. If you stay here, Esther, I can never care for you again." "That isn't my fault," Esther answered, ** and I don't care whether you care or no." " Good-bye," he said, reaching out his hand, but she recoiled from him. " I don't want to shake hands with you," she said. " I don't want anything more to do with you." The least discerning fool alive would have known better than to accept her speech as the expression of a childish petulance. It was quite realised and 222 A RISING STAR. sincere, and Mark knew as much. It was the bitterest moment he had ever known ; but he turned without another word and left the house. He took his hat and umbrella from the stand in the hall, let himself out, closed the door quietly behind him, and walked blindly into the street. He walked for hours at random, sometimes in deserted thorough- fares, and sometimes amidst throngs of people, but he was never able to identify a single street through which he passed in the course of that day's miser- able ramble. The blow he had received had crushed all sense of feeling, and except for a leaden weight upon his heart he was conscious of nothing like grief or pain. How he got through the day he never knew ; but he found his lodgings at night and flung himself upon his bed, aching with fatigue. There, in the darkness and the quiet, he seemed A RISING STAR. 223 suddenly to realise everything, and lay crying in a silent passion of despair until the dawn was ghostly on the window-blinds, when at last he fell asleep. He woke in the morning with a heart no lighter, and the sight of his own face in the mirror shamed him. His lids were swollen and his cheeks were scalded by the heat and brine of tears, so that it must have been plain to anybody who saw him that he must have spent hours in weeping. He kept his room all day, neither eating nor drinking. Now tobacco was distasteful to him. The chamber- maid made two or three visits to the room, and tapped at the locked door ; but each time he answered that he was busy, and bade her come later. When night had fairly fallen he stole out into the streets and rambled about again until he was fairly worn out. Then he went home and 224 A RISING STAR. slept, and next day the traces of his tears had disappeared. He was marble white, and he thought of his own face as he saw it in the glass that it looked no more than ill-tempered, though the few people who took the trouble to look at him in the course of the day read a settled gloom of misery in it. He was young and healthy, and his appetite came back to him with a rush. He laughed morosely at the huge breakfast he made, and despised him- self for being hungry after what had happened. Nevertheless, that first meal picked him up con- siderably, and it marked the first movement towards a reconciliation with fate, as the first meal after any great trouble or bereavement always does. He had obtained a week's absence from his pro- vincial duties in order that he might superintend the rehearsal of his comedy, and had paid a locum A RISING STAR. 225 teHOis, but after the first day he held aloof from the theatre. He had no other business in town, and it was useless for him to go back to Birming- ham, so that he felt as if he were cut out of the concerns of the world, and had no interest in any of its doings. Most of his time was spent about the streets and parks, where he walked rapidly, as if he had business on hand, in districts where there was any chance of his being met and recognised ; and hung idly about book stalls and shop windows, where he was unlikely to be found by any of the very few Londoners who knew him. He had promised his old friend and landlord that he should hear all about the progress of his piece, the particulars of the cast, and how its various members fell into their parts. Gingestra in especial was anxious for the news, and at another moment VOL. II. 15 226 A RISING STAR. Mark would have been the last man in the world to disappoint her. Jing's interest was particularly- strong, for in the week's trial the piece had enjoyed in the provinces she had played the part of the Little Widow, and she was naturally anxious to know what her London successor would be like. Jing was modest about her own achievements, but the young author had been enthusiastic, and she was on tenter-hooks until she could see her famous competitor in the part ; to learn how far and in what ways her own performance was surpassed. All this Mark knew, but he had no heart to tell her the truth. It was Friday, and on Saturday his leave termin- ated. He was striding along the Strand as if he had a rendezvous before him, when a hand was laid suddenly upon his arm, and Glynne's voice addressed him. A RISING STAR. 227 ** Still in town ? I thought you'd gone back to Birmingham. You've not been near the theatre since Monday." " No," said Mark. " I didn't care." He spoke with an assumption of tired indifference. " Monday was quite enough for me." " She's a lot better than you'd fancy," said the manager, hardly observant of Mark's white and miserable face. " She won't be what she ought to be, of course, but she's the cleverest little thing I ever saw, and picks up the business as a pigeon picks up peas. Upon my word, dear boy, if I had her in hand another month before the first produc- tion I believe I could knock the town kite high with her. I am going to take a special rehearsal with her this afternoon. Come in and have a look at her." Mark's voiceless shake of the head expressed a 228 A RISING STAR. decided negative. He could not in words have repulsed the suggestion more definitely. " You can sit at the back of the dress circle,"' Glynne urged. " She won't know you're there, and you can't make her nervous." "Very well," said Mark involuntarily. He was nine-tenths ashamed of himself for yielding, but his heart craved for a sight of her. He knew her character now as definitely as if he had himself compounded it. She was a mere mix- ture of vanity and heartlessness ; she was incapable of friendship or affection or gratitude. He knew that he had always known these things, and that he had hidden the knowledge from his own eyes^ accepting her pretty girlish cajoleries and her selfish caresses in lieu of the spiritual qualities he had always tried to believe in. Ill as she behaved to. A RISING STAR. 229 him, he was too large-hearted for even the beginning of a spite to take root in him ; but he looked back upon his memories of her from their first meeting, striving to justify her, and could recall no touch of tenderness in her except at a moment when she was seeking to condone a fault or to secure a favour. At such times she was lavish of endearment, but in all others as irresponsive as a stone. " You'll find her mightily improved," said Glynne. " You'll hardly believe it even when you see her." " When shall I be there ? " Mark asked. " Come to the club and lunch with me," Glynne responded, " and we'll go down together. I'm too tired to eat much, but a dozen of oysters and a glass of chablis will put me straight for the time. 230 A RISING STAR. I don't bind you to that anchorite's fare, dear boy." "I don't know," said Mark. "The fact is, Glynne, I'm not good company. I think on the whole I'd rather be alone." " Yes," said Glynne, " I can see you're hipped, and it's quite natural you shouldn't want your first London production to be murdered. It won't be half so bad as we thought it would be. Come along, and brighten up a bit. Besides that, you'll find a lot of people at the club Ñ men useful to know. We'll go and nobble the press,, dear boy. The beggars ought to have a fellow- feeling for a fellow-craftsman." Mark yielded, prompted more by an inward vacuity than by anything else, and Glynne, turning sharply to the right as they walked west- A RISING STAR. 23I ward, led him up Bedford Street and marched him into the Green-room CUib. He called for his own simple repast there, and was in the act of handing the vienii to his companion when a hand was laid caressingly upon his head, and a high-pitched musical voice addressed him. "You darling fellow! Where haveyou been hiding? I haven't seen you for a century of Sundays." " How do, dear boy ? " said the weary Glynne. " Sit down. Here's a man you ought to know, Stanley. This is Walker Mayhill, who's either going to knock you on the head with the biggest bludgeon in the bunch or lend you the strongest ladder to scale the heights of fortune with. You'd better make love to Mayhill. He's quite acces- sible, if you know how to pay court to him." Xow among press folk Mr. Walker Mayhill was 232 A RISING STAR. known from John o' Groats to Land's End ; and there was a certain glamour about the name, the knowledge of which brought Mark to his feet as he saluted the new-comer. i " Stanley," pursued Glynne, " is the author of * The Little Widow,' which is a deuced good piece, though I say it who oughtn't. I think you'll say so when you see it, Walker." "I'm sure," said Mr. Mayhill, " that I sincerely hope to have that pleasure. It's beastly to have to slate anything, and a pleasure to praise when one can do it conscientiously. Darling fellow, where have you been ? Sit down, Wilstrop, sit down. We'll make a partie carree!' Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop had approached the party unnoticed, and was going by with a boisterously friendly slap on the shoulder for A RISING STAR. 233 Mr. Mayhill, when he recognised Mark, who was still standing, and who regarded him with a look of undisguised aversion. ''How d'e do?" said Mr. Wilstrop, nodding vaguely. " I won't disturb you, boys. I'll take my humble chop sohcs!' ''Nonsense!" said Mr. Mayhill, in his shrill tenor. " Sit here with us. Glynne, present your friend Stanley to Wilstrop." " Thank you," said Mark. " Mr. Wilstrop and I know each other already." There was nothing in the words, but the tone was everything. If Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop had really been as much of a man of the world as he thought himself he would have taken warning by it. As it was he could think of nothing better than to thrust a hand of blusterous welcome 234 A RISING STAR. across the table towards his adversary. Mark looked at the hand, and looked at Mr. Wil- strop. Then he slowly sank back into his seat. The cut was too direct to be passed unnoticed, and Mr. Wilstrop followed his own instinct. '* Come, come, my dear Stanley ! We are old friends and we needn't quarrel. If there was any- thing in our last conversation which was meant on your side to be displeasing I can assure you in the presence of these gentlemen that I have quite forgotten it." There are circumstances which excuse murder, and if Mark misbehaved himself there may be some who will be inclined to excuse him. " I can quite conceive that you have forgotten, Mr. Wilstrop, for I think I know you. I have A RISING STAR. 235 never met another man who would have the inso- lence to forget." " How, sir ! " cried Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop, with an unconscious reminiscence of the vocal means which served him in his assumption of the character of Othello. In another assemblage the exclamation would have turned all eyes his way, but here it might pass, and did pass, for a bit of friendly blague, or an imitation of the manner of a popular tragedian. There is in theatrical circles an amusement which is known as the game of spoof One of the most brilliant phases of this game is shown when a made quarrel is got up, and outsiders are induced to join with the view of pacifying the seeming combatants. If they can be drawn into a genuine participation in the hollow quarrel the fun is all the richer. The members of 236 A RISING STAR. the profession have grown chary of interference in such cases ; and the result is that there is no assembly in the world in the midst of which one can quarrel noisily with a greater certainty of being unnoticed. Mark said nothing, but took up the luncheon card and devoted himself to its perusal as if there was no such person as Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop in the world. Mr. Wilstrop leaned across the table and drew the inefiu from his hands. " Permit me to remark, sir, that I do not tolerate this assumption of indifference in a case where my honour is impugned." Mark sat quiet, but turned his chair half aside. " I insist, sir," cried Mr. Wilstrop, giving his majestic voice full play, " I insist, sir, on an explanation ! " " I had made up my mind," Mark answered, A RISING STAR. 237 " that I would offer no public explanation of our relations to each other. If you insist upon it you shall have it." Mr. Wilstrop folded his arms, but pressed Mayhill's foot with a telegraphic toe. A single glance passed between the two. The tired comedian saw it, and smiled with a face instantly averted. "You want an expla- nation ? " Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop nodded ponderously. " You shall have it. Mind you, I am loth to give it even now, Wilstrop. You can let our quarrel drop, if you wish, and put what colour on it you like. In my absence you may explain it as you please. If you insist, you shall have my reason for declining to know you." The challenge was unescapable, and Mr. Wil- strop braced himself to meet it. 238 A RISING STAR. " I insist, sir," he added weightily, " I insist upon an explanation." " Very well," said Mark. "You offered me ten pounds to correct the English of a play of yours. I took the piece in hand, I rewrote it from the first line to the last. I made your hero, who was drawn after your own nature, the cad of the piece. There is not a line, apart from the speeches of my cad Ñ your hero Ñ which is not mine : not a situation which is not of my making. You paid the ten pounds promised. You have posed as the author of the piece from then till now, and have cleared ten thousand pounds by it. You are absolutely within your legal right, and I decline to know you." " Mayhill, dear boy," said Mr. Wilstrop, in a voice which set the glasses ringing, " you are my defence here. You know this piece in question ? " A RISING STAR. 239 " I know it well," said Mr. Mayhill. " You know it," cried Wilstrop, " from its first inception to the hour of its production in London." The telegraphic toe shot forth again, and once more the tired comedian smiled. " My darling boy, I know the piece," cried Mr. Mayhill, " from start to finish." " I brought it to you in the egg," said Wilstrop. " And," said Mr. Mayhill, " may I venture to say, my dear Glynne, I hatched it ? I have never ventured to claim the credit of a line." " That says something for your honesty," said Mark ; and Glynne laid a warning hand upon his arm. " Is there a line," cried Wilstrop, turning to Mr. Walker Mayhill in impetuous appeal, " is there a word for which you and I are not responsible ? " 240 A RISING STAR. " My darling fellow," said Mayhill, responding with his tenor pipe to his fellow-scoundrel's bassoon, " things get altered in rehearsal, but upon my word I can remember nothing." " There's a historic liar," said Mark, " who had Non mi ricordo for a catchword." " Good-day, Glynne," said Mr. Mayhill. " Glad to see you always. Sorry to have met you now." The injured tragedian and his suborned bully of the press walked side by side from the club. " I've no doubt you're right, Stanley," said Glynne. " But you're a donkey^ all the same. You've made your own dramatic coffin ; you'll be buried in it Saturday three weeks. Waiter !. What'll you have to drink, dear boy ? " END OF VOL. II. CHAPTER XVII. For three weeks the London hoardings flamed with huge posters announcing the approaching production of " The Little Widow ". Rows of sandwichmen perambulated the streets bearing portraits of that enticing little person in chrome lithograph. Mark was back in Birmingham, engaged in his customary avocations, working very heartlessly, but producing his daily tale of journalistic bricks with the mechanical facility born of long custom. News reached him from VOL. III. I 2 A RISING STAR. time to time of the progress of the piece, but he took Httle interest in its fortunes, and but for Jing's earnest soHcitation would not have been" present on the first night of its production. Jing was mortal, and a woman, and, therefore, felt a touch of jealousy, and even for a moment of anger, at the news that a mere tyro like Esther should have found so magnificent a chance in London ; whilst she, who had taught the girl all she knew, and felt conscious of her own qualities, should still linger in the cold shade of the provinces. How such an extraordinary condition of things should have come about passed her powers of divination. The provincial actress looks to London as the pious Mohammedan looks to Mecca, or beyond Mecca into Paradise; and Jing had fairly palpitated many a time in dreams of success or premonitions of A RISING STAR. 3 failure in that exalted region. She even cried a little in the solitude of her own room to think of the injustice of Fate ; but she fought herself resolutely out of this envious and despondent mood, and did her best to hope that Esther would come triumphantly through the ordeal which awaited her. This hope at its best was faint and halting, for Jing was not only an artist by instinct, but had been born in her business, and had been familiar with the footlights as long as she could remember, so that she knew the countless difficulties which beset inexperience, and made genius without instruction ineffective. It goes without saying that Mark had carefully disguised from his old friends the reason for Esther's unlooked-for promotion. That was to his way of thinking altogether too dreadful to be 4 A RISING STAR. named, and he buried it in his own bosom, where it made wild work enough. The night came at last, and Mark wandered aimlessly about the front of the house, barely re- cognised by anybody. Glynne played the leading part, and Francis was busy behind the curtain. The man in front of the house knew Mark by sisfht, and conducted him to a box reserved for him. The young author was absurdly early, and as he sat in a dark corner of his box, staring at the green baize which concealed the brand new act drop, he could hear the muffled thunders of the feet that stormed the gallery, and the scarcely more subdued clamour of the pit. The stalls filled slowly, and peeping out now and again he began to fear that the house would be a poor one. Time went on, however, and the stream flowed in A RISING STAR. 5 gently and continuously until every seat was oc- cupied. The footlights flared up suddenly, the green baize curtain rose, and a round of applause shook the air as the new act drop was revealed. The money of his grace of Belisle had been ex- pended without stint, and the re-decorated Sheri- dan Theatre was a model of taste and comfort. The approaches to the better part of the house, what with flowers and greenery, rich and sombre colourings, and with contrasted glitter of mirrors and gilding, looked like the entrance to a fairy palace. The crowded house seemed in excellent temper. Every circumstance but one augured well, and Mark knew already from the provincial accept- ance of his piece that it was at least safe from the storm of opprobrium with which a new production in London is so often received. In spite of all this, b A RISING STAR. and in spite of the stormy indifference into which he had fallen, a sudden riot of anxiety was afoot in his mind, and before the members of the or- chestra had finished tuning their instruments he found himself in the corridor, marching up and down in solitude, torn by anxiety. Failure hung above him, huge and imminent, and the noises of a world's derision were already in his ears. Nobody came near him, for every seat in the house was already taken, and he walked up and down, squeezing the perspiration from the palms of his hands until the last chord of the overture sounded with a crash. The scattered applause which followed died away, and he heard the rattle of the rising curtain. Then something dragged him to his seat again, and he was back in time to hear the first line spoken. He knew A RISING STAR. 7 his own play by rote, and could have recited it easily from start to finish, but he was in such a whirl of emotion that it carried no meaningr to o his mind. A delighted roar greeted the entrance of an old favourite of the town, and clap on clap of genial thunder filled the house as he spoke his lines. A rap sounded at the box door, and Mark rising mechanically to answer it confronted Francis, who came in cool as a cucumber, with a huge Paris brilliant shining in a great white field of shirt front. "Nervous, dear boy?" he whispered as he closed the door behind him. " Xo need for that. The piece is all right. What I'm afraid of is that little baggage of a Delacour. I've come here out of her way. I believe that the very sight of me to-night would strike her dumb for a fortnight." 8 A RISING STAR. Now Glynne was on, and there was a louder roar than ever. Mark's heart began to beat thickly, and seemed to threaten to cease to beat at all, for in a minute or two Esther was due upon the stage. " There's old Belisle just in," whispered Francis, laying a hand on Mark's. " In the box opposite. That cub of a son of his, Lord Limesborough, is with him. That's a pair that don't often run coupled. They hate each other like blazes." Mark looked straight before him, and saw nothing ; but in a while he heard Esther's voice, sounding, as he thought, curiously thin and arti- ficial. She was unknown, and came on amid the silence of the house. Mark's nerve came back to him, and he fixed his attention on the stage. Esther had never looked to greater advantage A RISING STAR. Q than she did to-night, though there was something of a strained and frightened look in her face. She was evidently palpitating with nervousness, and before she had been upon the stage for two minutes there was a ghastly pause, in the midst of which the prompter's voice was heard, distinctly sibilant. " I thought so," said Francis coolly. " She's going to crack up and send the whole thing to kingdom come." Glynne, with the perfect self-possession of an old stager, spoke her speech for her, with an im- promptu variation of his own, and carried her over the crisis. There was a great laugh at the con- clusion of the speech, and the debutante was saved for the moment. She felt it, and recovered at least a partial self-possession, but in every turn lO A RISING STAR. and movement she was marked " amateur," from head to heel. " Take it easy, dear boy," Francis whispered, in utter ignorance of the ground of Mark's too evident emotion. "The play has got 'em by the wool already, and Miss Delacour will be out of the cast on Monday. Old Glynne will get a rare wigging from the press for having trusted her with the part at all, but that's all that will happen." The scene, which in Jing's hands had run along in alternate mirth and tenderness, holding the house between tears and laughter, went for little or nothing here. Glynne played with the adroitest finesse ; but he was powerless to lift Esther's spirit, and it was the woman and not the man who should have held the stage. "That ought to have gone with a roar," Francis A RISING STAR. II whispered, "and now it's as flat as stale soda water." Esther left the stage in dead silence, save for a faint and half-hearted clapping of hands from the box in which the Duke of Belisle and Lord Limesborough sat together. When the curtain fell there were sounds of disapprobation, mingled with the general applause ; but the performers were called one by one, and all the old favourites were warmly greeted. Esther's entr}^ with Glynne was the signal for a mingled tumult, " I thought she'd catch it," said Francis. " I can understand it being ner\-ous work for you, old man, but you've no cause to be afraid. Did you see that beast ]\Ia)'hill at his old tricks? Glynne told me about the row you had with him. He's trying to lead the 12 A RISING STAR. house against you, but the piece is too strong for him." Mr. Walker Mayhill, indeed, sat in the middle of the third row from the orchestra, and had been conspicuous from the first. Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop sat at his right hand, and at any stroke of humour which set the house laughing they looked at each other with raised eyebrows of com- miseration, and shrugged their shoulders, as who should say, " How piteously aged is this joke ! How intolerably and sorrowfully stale ! " Then, when the house was hushed by a touch of deeper feeling, Mr. Mayhill would utter faint moans of pity, audible for a few feet about him, and Mr. Wilstrop would wave his hands abroad in answer, with a gesture expressive of resigned contempt and enforced endurance. There is always present A RISING STAR. I3 on a first night in London a contingent known to the members of the theatrical profession as " the wreckers ". These gentlemen make it their busi- ness to look out for any harmless chance phrase to which it is possible for an active but bestialised imagination to attach a vile signification. They make it their business to emphasise any accident which may, however slightly, imperil the smooth rendering of the play. They howl at every odd bit of unfamiliar costume. They are of the kidney who cry " Bogey ! " and pretend hysterics at the entrance of the Ghost in "' Hamlet ". They are, of course, for the most part, an entirely brainless crew, but they have it in their power to do a good deal of mischief, and there is hardly a London manager in whose breast they have not at one time or another inspired a genuine terror. They 14 A RISING STAR. are sometimes, but not often, paid by spiteful people ; but as a rule they do their clumsy spiriting impromptu, and for the mere pleasure of inflicting pain. Now, Mr. Walker Mayhill's person and identity were known to every member of this band of dunderheads in London. Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop, though less familiar, was certain to be recognised by many ; and the two, in their own fashion, were playing to the gallery. " Come with me," said Francis. " You needn't say a word, but you'll see me put an end to this." He took up from a chair a light overcoat which he had laid aside on entering the box, and fumbling in the side pockets brought out a double handful of square envelopes. He showed them to Mark, who saw that they were addressed to the editors of various journals in London. Francis A RISING STAR. I5 gave him no idea of their contents, but briskly led the way into the corridor, which was now crowded with listeners and humming with conversation. Mark overheard a dozen scraps of talk as he hurried along at Francis" heels. '*' Pretty Ñ yes, pretty as paint, but stupid as a stick." " Deuced clever first act, I call it." " Glynne ought to know his way about better. \Miere the dickens did he pick her up ? " '' Actress I She'll never make an actress if she lives to be a thousand." " Jolly nice little piece, though, so far." "If the Little \Mdow doesn't kill it." In the foyer the same verdict was audible ever\'where. " There's my man," said Francis. " You're out of this, dear boy, but \-ou're welcome to do the looking on." With this he shouldered his way through the l6 A RISING STAR. throng to where Mr. Mayhill stood, with his customary Httle ring of toadies round him, a glass of whisky and seltzer in one hand, and a lighted cigarette in the other. " Mayhill," said Francis, " just a minute if you please. I've something here that will be interest- ing to you. You see these ? " He shuffled the envelopes slowly under Mr. Mayhill's nose. The eminent critic nodded and smiled. "Yes, darling boy. I see them. What about em?" " Well, I'm not quite certain," the other answered, " that I shall send 'em, and I want your advice about it. Here's one addressed to your own editor. They're all alike. Just cast your eye over that, and give me your opinion." Mr. Mayhill, having disembarrassed himself of his glass, adjusted his pince-nez and read the A RISING STAR. I7 letter. He had not gone far when his counten- ance changed ; but he read it through to the end' and then looked up with half-closed venomous eyes. " Do you think I shall have to send it, dear boy?" " No," said Mr. Mayhill, with a little drawl, " I really don't see why you should." " Well," returned Francis, with equal delibera- tion, " I think it very likely I shall take your tip, but I shall know all about it in an hour or two. You wouldn't advise me to burn 'em till the show's over, would you ? " " No," said Mr. Mayhill, pulling at his cigarette. " As you like, but I don't think you'll have any need to send 'em." " Give Wilstrop the tip, will you, there's a good fellow. I must get away behind. That snake's VOL. III. 2 l8 A RISING STAR. scotched," he said quietly, as he rejoined Mark. He thrust one of the envelopes into his hand. " Read that when you go back to the box." Mark went back at once and opened the envelope with some curiosity. It was addressed " To the Editor of the Timesl' and bore that evening's date from the Sheridan Theatre. It ran thus : Ñ "Sir, Ñ This letter is written in anticipation of the events of the evening. It is addressed not only to you, but to the editor of every daily journal in London, to the whole theatrical and sporting press, and to many of the leading pro- vincial dailies. Should our anticipations be un- realised, the letter, of course, will not be forwarded. We expect to be forced to complain of the con- duct of an eminent and widely-known dramatic A RISING STAR. ig critic. This gentleman has twice, in the stalls on first nights at this house, acted as fugleman to a number of people who had visited the theatre with no other idea than to embarrass the actors, and, if possible, wreck the play. We do not name the person in question for excellent and obvious reasons, but there is no member of the theatrical profession who will not recognise him. Mr. Stanley, the author of ' The Little Widow,' has been brought into unfriendly collision with the critic, and we know by experience what we have to expect this evening. Should the anticipated interruptions occur, this letter will be shown to the offender at the earliest opportunity. Should they be continued after this warning we shall make our joint appeal to the honour and generosity of the English press. You may rely upon our bond fides when we state 20 A RISING STAR. that unless the conduct complained of is altogether intolerable our appeal will not be made. " We are, sir, " Your obedient servants, " Herbert Glynne, Lessee. " Reginald Francis, Manager." Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop was considerably surprised on his return to the stalls to find that the eminent critic had completely changed his standpoint, and was now amongst the most enthusiastic admirers of the play. It was Walker Mayhill's tenorino laugh that led the house, his kid-gloved hands that first came together in applause. At intervals he murmured " Admir- able ! " "Capital!" "Good, by Jove!" and the like encomiastic words and phrases. The smaller A RISING STAR. 21 fry were thick about him, and took their cue from him. The house rang with laughter and applause. There was no chance for the wrecker.-, for every- body in the stalls had caught the contagion of enjoyment, and the great mass of the audience was eager to miss nothing. Even Esther cau_;ht something of the spirit of the time, and sparkled here and there. But on the whole she was the kill-joy of the evening Ñ not absolutely bad enough to ruin the play, but bad enough to damp its fires, at such unlucky moments as she walked among them. Luckil\' for her and for the author everybody about her was as steady as a rock. There are scores of excellent actors who, on the assumption of a new part, are struck through and through with the pangs of stage fright as terribly as any novice could be ; but if tiiere were any 22 A RISING STAR. such in the cast of " The Little Widow," she was mercifully saved from contact with them. Her business lay almost entirely with Glynne, and with that glorious old veteran, Forrest and his wife, all three seemed so steeled and armed as to have grown beyond fear in the face of any audience. But for their steadfast self-possession Heaven only knows what would have become of the hapless novice, who was letter perfect before any other person engaged in the performance had seen the play, and was now forced to wrench word by word from memory with a conscious effort. The curtain fell on the final act, and there was no doubt left either as to the verdict on the piece or as to that on the performance of Miss Delacour. Glynne led her across, and in his company she was tolerably safe, for by this time everybody was A RISING STAR. 23 anxious to give him credit. But when once she had passed from the sight of the audience there was a terrific hubbub. Yells and catcalls and tem- pestuous cries of " Delacour ! Delacour ! " made the curtain wave and the very gaslights quiver. Esther thought she caught the meaning of the cries, and in her youthful vanity was eager to go back again. Glynne took her by the arm as she ran across to the prompt side, and she turned, struggling to free herself. "They want me, Mr. Glynne, they want me ! " " Yes," said Glynne, '' they want you ver>' badly; but if you're not a born fool you don't want to go." A good half of the male portion of the audience was friendly to the house, and strove to still the tumult by adding to it, bellowing " Author ! Author ! " with all the force of their lungs. Francis tore Mark from his box, and half forced, half led 24 A RISING STAR. him to the wing. A shirt-sleeved man pulled the curtain aside, Francis pushed the successful author gently forward, and before he knew it Mark was before the footlights, bowing his acknowledgments. There was no doubting the heartiness and sincerity of the greeting he received. He had made his fortune, and he knew it. He was under thirty, and he had touched the top of his ambition, and it meant nothing to him. He had dreamed, awake and asleep, of this supreme and splendid hour, and now it was his, and it had no value for him. The priceless jewel of success was of the poorest paste, a thing worth no man's picking up in the highway. It would have been far otherwise if Esther had been what he had always thought her ; but she was worthless, and no jewel had any riches, no wine any sparkle, no feast any season. A RISING STAR. 25 He was back in the semi-darkness of the stage, but the clamorous cry of " Delacour ! Delacour ! " was rising still. Glynne still held a restraining hand on Esther's arm, but she struggled to release herself. " It is my call, Mr. Glynne I " she said, between rage and tears. '' I have a right to take it. You have no right to hold me back." *' x\s a matter of fact," said Glynne, " I'd a great deal rather you took it. Go along." The shirt-sleeved man swung the curtain aside with a grin, and she walked proudly forward. The well-meaning folks were gone, and as the poor child entered, the vehement call changed in a second to a howl of execration and contumely, which might have fitted the advent of some monstrous criminal, but was never earned by the vilest duffer that 26 A RISING STAR. ever tortured a theatrical audience in the history of the world. She stood one moment amazed and horrified, and then her spirit rose. She walked with an aspect of complete calm to the centre of the stage, and there, after a single curtsy, stood motionless. The howl died down, and there were cries of " Shame ! " and " Order ! " The house settled slowly to a complete hush, and when perfect quiet was restored she walked calmly back, and directly she was hidden by the curtain ran to her dressing-room, and there tore the wedding- dress, in which, in the last act, the Little Widow had been richly habited, into mere rags and tatters. She did this with clenched teeth and blazing eyes, and having done it threw herself upon a couch, and cried with such an agony of shame and passion as she had never known, CHAPTER XVIII. "Come and see the governor," said Francis. ''We've got to hold a council of war to-night." Mark was staring in the direction Esther's flvino; figure had taken an instant before, and it needed the manager's hand upon his shoulder to avraken him to a sense of his surroundings. " Never mind that little person," said Francis. " We've done with her, I fancy." He put his arm confidentially through Mark's, and led him to Glynne's dressing-room. The management of the Sheridan Theatre had not had the Duke of Belisle to back their enter- (27) 28 A RISING STAR. prise for nothing, and the manager's apartment was quite a dream of beauty in its way. It was roomy and handsomely proportioned to begin with, and was now magnificently upholstered. There had been an installation of the electric light all over the house, and Glynne's room was perfectly illuminated. It was thronged with men when Mark and Francis arrived, and the air was thick with tobacco smoke. Champagne corks were popping, and there was a perfect babel of voices. Glynne's dresser was busy about him, helping him to return to his every-day semblance, and he undressed and dressed again in the middle of the talkative crowd as if he had been alone with his valet. Everybody was en- thusiastic about the play, and everybody was in a state of high and unnecessary excitement with A RISING STAR. 29 respect to the manner of Miss Delacour's final disappearance from the scene. " One of these days," said Mr. Walker Mayhill, " that little girl will do. With a year or two's ex- perience she'll make her mark. You're not going on with her, Glynne ? " He had not yet had time to forget the episode of the letters ; but he was delightfully unconscious in manner, and Glynne, who was as old a soldier as himself, accepted the hollow truce with an equal appearance of complacency. "No," said Glynne, "she's been too ambitious, and I've been too tolerant. We shall have to cast about for somebody else." " Upon my word," said Mr. Mayhill, " I thought at one time that the whole thing was going to be disastrous. I protest, my darling fellow, that 30 A RISING STAR. my heart was in my mouth for the first half- hour." " I know it was, dear boy," said Glynne, with considerable dryness. " A good many of us had it there in the course of the first act. It never rose so high after that, did it? " " A charming play," said Mr. Mayhill, unabashed. "A delightful play. If the performance had only been free of that one little blot the night would have reminded one of poor Jones' triumphs in the little house off the Tottenham Court Road." A slanting mirror had shown him the reflections of Mark and Francis, as they stood close behind him ; but he feigned ignorance of their presence. After the warning he had received it was not his game to show an open enmity to the man who had insulted him so grossly. Mr. Mayhill had made A RISING STAR. 3I and found many enemies in his time, and in the acts of spite practice makes perfect as in other matters. Mr. Mayhill could write }-ou a whole column in review of a new play, in which no phrase should express condemnation, in which, indeed, each separate sentence, separately reviewed, should seem friendly, whilst the total result should be that no manager who had read his notice would venture to touch }-our work. He could hint a doubt and hesitate dislike better than any man of his age, and this faculty had made him feared and powerful. The unprejudiced observer, regarding him, was at a loss to decide whether his insincerity or his impudence deser\-ed the fuller tribute. He had himself written dramas, and had himself be- spattered himself with anonj-mous adulation. He had praised his dearest enemy with a bo}'ish 32 A RISING STAR. abandon when it paid, and when it paid had stabbed his dearest friend in the back. Nobody writes the history of the modern press with candour, but probably nobody ever did, with candour, write the history of his own time. Per- haps the Puff and Dangle, and the Sir Fretful Plagiary of Sheridan were real people ; but then Sheridan was very strong, and could hit anybody with impunity. Reade's Snarl and Soaper were behind that master's time ; and, in fact, it has been the general habit of the angered humorist to flog the dead ass who has no kick in him rather than the living jackal, who knows so well how to bite. Glynne took Mark about, introducing him everywhere. The champagne corks went popping, and the grape juice foamed, and everybody was in the best and gayest of spirits. By-and-by Mark's A RISING STAR. 33 heart grew warm by these adventitious aids, and the future lay before him, roseate and smiling. He had nature and brains enough to know that the whole thing was in fact an illusion ; but he welcomed it, and for half an hour he was feverishly excited and happy. Then the crowd melted away, and finally Mark, Glynne and Francis were left alone, save for one man who sat half somnolent in an armchair. This personage, who was perfectly attired, had the air of a groom in his master's clothes. He was close-cropped, as if he had just left gaol, but a sweeping black moustache denied that fancy, and his hands, which sparkled with valuable rings, were well shaped, beautifully cared for, and delicate. If, like the Northern Cobbler, he had " looked wall eyed at his noase," he would have " seead 'im a-gettin' o' fire," and the whole VOL. III. 3 34 A RISING STAR. expression of his face was sottish and hoggish. Glynne looked from this gentleman to Francis, and shrugged his shoulders. Francis looked from Glynne to the gentleman, and shrugged his shoulders. The two spoke by a common impulse in the self-same phrase. " Beastly little cad ! " The gentleman thus characterised awoke himself by the unusual but efficient method of inserting the red-hot end of his cigar in his mouth. He rose, spluttering imprecations in a groom's accent, and demanded a drink. Francis poured out a glass of champagne for him. He rinsed his mouth with a portion of its contents, and spat it out upon the carpet. " I'm d d if I wasn't asleep," he said. " Look here, Glynne, I want to have a little talk with you." A RISING STAR. 35 He approached the manager with uncertain gait, but lurching against a chair set both hands on the back of it and brought himself to anchor. " Hillo ! I don't know this johnny." "This is Mr. Stanley, the author of to-night's piece. This, Mr. Stanley, is the Marquis of Limesborough." "Devilish clever fellow, too," said the marquis, looking at Mark. " Seen a widow or two, haven't you ? He knows their little dodges." To Glynne, and to the company at large : " So do I, by . There's precious few of 'em get over me. I'm not one of your clever devils," he explained. " I never went in for intellectual, but I know a woman and I know a horse, and I can put my props up. And now you've got me, damme, what d'ye want to say to me ? " 36 A RISING STAR. " Have a drink, Limesborough," said Glynne. "So I will," returned the nobleman. " Tha's a magnum in the corner. We'll have magnum. Magnum isn't much between four. Wish you johnnies wouldn't shift about so. Makes it ever so much harder to count you. Irishman's lill pig. Bally good yarn, that. Bust Irishman's lill pig. Where's magnum ? " " Oh, you don't want a magnum," said Francis, with contemptuous good humour. " We've got all we want here. You have a little. That'll do your business." " 'Conomy," said the marquis, with a hiccup. " All right ! you uncork it, Francis. Strike me," he added, lurching suddenly into the chair by which he had sustained himself, "I'm a bit squiffy. The o'e man noticed that, hour ago. A RISING STAR. 37 He's down on me, Glynne. Had beas'ly row this afternoon. Wouldn't speak t'me when I met him in the lobby." Here he went to sleep for perhaps ten seconds, and added on waking with an air of luminous explanation : " Lobby. Jus' outside here. Sher'an Theatre, you know." " Oh, yes," said Glynne, " I know. So you've been rowing with the duke again ? " "No!" said the marquis, in emphatic denial. " Never row with anybody. Never. All same, I can put my props up, 'n good many of 'em know it. Can't put 'em up to governor," he explained. "Man can't hammer 's father. 'Tisn't respectable. Labourin' classes, that sor' o' thing. Not in good society." "Your lordship's sentiments," said Mark, "deserve applause." 38 A RISING STAR. " S'pose they do," the marquis retorted. "That any business yours ? " " None in the world," said Mark. " No malice ! " cried the nobleman. " I like this johnny. Have drink. Where's that magnum ? " Simple as his speech was, he gave it the finest seasoning. It was barely an intellectual food for babes, but he flavoured it with cayenne and cognac Ñ a kind of devilled pap. There was no vulgarer lout in London, and none stupider. Stripped of his title and his fortune he would have been tolerated in no decent assembly of shop-walkers. The congregation of an average taproom would have held him in despite. His ill-breeding would have stirred the unanimous gall of the occupants of a cabman's shelter. But Ñ he was the Marquis of Limesborough and heir to the dukedom of A RISING STAR. 39 Belisle. If he survived his father he would inherit one of the great fortunes of Europe, one of the noblest and most honoured names, and a string of titles and splendid dignities which filled half a page in the British Peerage. For these excellent and sufficient reasons his companionship was sought by many, and endured by more. " Can't make the old man out at all," he said rather plaintivel}\ " We're always havin' rows. He said to-night Ñ we had a box, Sher'an Theatre, you Ñ know. Said I wasn't a gen'l'm'n. it all, I'm good as he is. He wasn't the Duke of Belisle till his old man cracked up, was he ? Very well, then, I shan't be Duke of Belisle till he cracks up. Where's the diff. ? " " His grace," said Glynne, with a purposed assumption of old-fashioned dignity, " is a gentle- 40 A RISING STAR. man of the old school. And you, Limes.," with a sudden imitation of the sot before him, " you're a gentleman of the new style, eh ? " " Gad ! " said the marquis, oblivious of the satire, " you've hit it. I shall go and see him to-morrow, and tell him that. I can't think of these things. It's take me or leave me. I don't reckon on being a dab at language and the classics, and all that bally rot, but I can put my props up." "Therein," said Francis, "your excellence dis- plays itself indeed." "I'll take you on," the marquis retorted, "in a twelve foot ring, any day. So don't 7^// talk. I'm not particular about gloves, and I'm game for a go with the raw 'uns." He sat for a minute in offended dignity, and looked round for a means of vengeance on too A RISING STAR. 4I outspoken satire. It occurred to ] im on a sudden that he could not more powerfully clench his re- tort than by smoking with a look of tranquillity, and a half-burned cigar which had already ignited the handsome tablecloth before him lay con- veniently to hand. He seized it, therefore, and gave one majestic pull, only to discover that he had repeated his former error, and that the lighted end was between his teeth. He got up, screaming, cursing and stamping, but by-and-by recovered himself, and asked, with a sweet con- fidential air : Ñ " Glynne, you're a man of the world. Tell me which end this bally thing goes off at." He had some champagne, and shortly after- wards lurched away. " Is that an average specimen of the modern 42 A RISING STAR. English nobleman ? " Mark asked, as the young gentleman went cannoning from one side of the corridor to the other. "Oh!" said Glynne lightly, ''there are all sorts in the peerage, just as there are everywhere else. There are some dreadful outsiders amongst them, and he's one of them. If you want to see any more of his sort " " I don't," said Mark. " I could throw a net that would catch you half a dozen like him. Perhaps not quite as drunk and beastly, but pretty nearly." " Well," said Francis, interrupting him, " it's after midnight, and we must decide on something. I don't think we can afford to try that Delacour again." " No," Glynne admitted. " That's a certainty. A RISING STAR. 43 But it's a pretty long part, and I don't know any- body who's fit for it who could have it ready in the time." "Sixty sides of type-written stuff," mused Francis. " Xo ; it'll take more than a common swallow to get that down. What's to be done?" "I'll tell you," said Mark. " I know the very girl for it. She knows the part already. She played it in the country to my perfect satisfaction, and I have no doubt that you'd be satisfied with her." " Who is she ? " Glynne asked. "She is a Miss Broom," Mark answered. "Miss Gingestra Broom." "I know her," Francis broke in. "Daughter of old Broom at the Birmingham Royal. Very clever little girl, and rather pretty. Yes," he 44 A RISING STAR. added, turning to Glynne for confirmation, " I think Miss Broom might do." " Very well," said his chief, " if Mr. Stanley can give you her address you'd better run down by the first train to-morrow, and see if you can make arrangements with her. We've changed a lot of the business, and you'd better call her scenes for rehearsal at twelve o'clock on Monday." " All right," said the lieutenant. " We can be back by that time." So that matter was settled ; and Mark, sore- hearted as he was, went away a little comforted by the thought that he had been able to do a good turn to so old a friend as Jing. If once she had an opportunity to appear in London he was confident that she would succeed there, and he knew how she thirsted for an opportunity of A RISING STAR. 45 distinction, for the sake of her father and mother, who were rapidly getting old, and had made but scant provision for the future. But his thoughts were soon back with Esther, and when he had made the first excuse he could think of he slipped away from his companions and paced the streets alone. A thin drizzle had begun to fall, and the moist pavement glimmered cheerlessly in the lamplight. But he took no heed of the weather, and marched on with his own disconsolate thoughts. He was not ver^' well acquainted with London, but he knew generally that he was walking in the direction of Limesborough Gardens. He made many detours, and more than once lost his way altogether. At last he came unexpectedly upon the place, and stood before the gate of the house in which Esther lived. It was all dark and quiet, 46 A RISING STAR. and by this time it was near two o'clock. The drizzle had grown to a fine persistent rain, but he stood there purposeless and miserably indifferent for a quarter of an hour. Then came the clamp of a policeman's highlows on the pavement, and the officer, approaching, turned the light of his bull's-eye full upon him and looked him up and down. '' Waiting for somebody? " said the policeman. " No," Mark answered. "What's your business here.?" the officer inquired. " None," said Mark. "Then," retorted the officer, "perhaps you'd better go home." "Perhaps I had," Mark answered, and walked away, followed by the suspicious officer until he A RISING STAR. 47 had cleared the Crescent and had made off slowly towards his hotel. It was during that homeward walk that he experienced the first touch of definite resolve since his parting with Esther. He had easily learned to love the child in spite of all her monkey irresponsibilities, her greed, and her ingrati- tude. These had all, somehow, been invested with a childish charm, so that in Esther they had never looked downright frankly ugly, as they would have done in the case of ninety-nine people in a hundred. From loving the child he had gone on to falling almost imperceptibly in love with the budding woman. His discovery of that fact would probably have been delayed, even for a year or two, if the worthless and charming little person had never taken it into her head to run away from home and desert her benefactors. That her silly vanity had 48 A RISING STAR. narrowly failed to ruin the ambition of his lifetime went absolutely for nothing at this moment, for the discovery of her worthlessness filled him with a pain so poignant that life and its common interests seemed to have come to a standstill. And now he had knelt for the last time before the empty shrine, and the resolution at which he had arrived was that he would make it the first and most urgent business of his life to live her memory down. He would expel her from his heart, and, as far as might be, from his memory. Esther herself was not in the least concerned what Mark might think or feel. She had far other reflections to occupy her mind. In spite of Mrs. Jordan's blandishments she cried for hours. That good lady had seen the piece from a seat in the dress circle, and was full of enthusiasm. A RISING STAR. 49 " You was lovely all through, my dear. Nobody can tell me anything about the theatre, for I've been at It all my life. I've seen everybody in everything. I've seen all the leading ladies when they had their beginnings, and not one of them, when they started, was anything like as good as you are. And then," pursued Mrs. Jordan, thrown off her guard by the warmth of her own feelings, " they were such a hugly lot compared with you. Why, my dearie, in the frocks you wore in the second and third acts you looked as pretty as an angel." Esther could, under ordinary conditions, and habitually did, consume and assimilate a good deal of this sort of diet, but to-night she had no appetite for it, and she cried passionately to Mrs. Jordan to go away. VOL. III. 4 50 A RISING STAR. " I won't be bothered with you. Hold your tongue." "You won't be bothered long in this way, dearie," said her companion soothingly. " They won't be able to afford the money to insult you that way every night. It's an expensive business to send two or three hundred people into the pit and gallery." " What do you mean ? " cried Esther. She had thrown herself in an abandonment of rage and wounded vanity full length upon the bed, with her face hidden among the lace-edged pillows. But she sat bolt upright as she put this question. "What do you mean? Paid? Who paid?" "Why, my dearie," returned Mrs. Jordan, "there was two or three hundred people sent in to-night to hiss, and paid to do it. Bless you, you don't A RISING STAR. 5I know the profession yet. Poor little innocent 'eart ! It was that Miss What's-her-name's doing, who was to have played the part at first. You don't suppose as she'd stand by quiet, and see her own nose put out o' joint for nothing ? Not she. And what'd make her so very riled about it was to be put on one side for a person as is much younger and prettier than she ever was." There was a twofold comfort here. In the first place the passion of wrath with which Esther bubbled had now a direct object before it, and in the second place the belief was opened to her that she had not really failed at all. " Now, don't you cr>' no more, dear," said Esther's counsellor. " You let me give you a drop of comfort. I'll get cook to make some port negus for you, and if you don't mind we'll have LIBRARY UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOfS 52 A RISING STAR. it together. I'm a bit out of sorts, with this cold night and the agitation as I've gone through. Oh, if rd been nigh that woman when I heard them wretches hissing, I should have scratched her eyes out." The bell was rung and the port negus com- manded. Miss Delacour's passion gradually sim- mered down, and by the time the medicine prescribed was ready she had dried her eyes, and only an occasional involuntary sob gave audible token of the subsiding tempest. Her nose and her eyelids were red and swollen with prolonged weep- ing, and she was by no means as attractive to look at as she usually was. " I'm a perfect howling fright," she declared, surveying herself in a looking-glass. " But I don't care. That'll be all right to-morrow." A RISING STAR. 53 In spite of this prophecy, the traces of the disturbance over-night were visible enough when her venerable patron and protector called next day. The day was fine after the rain, and the duke arrived on foot, carrying with him a little jewelled arrow through an emerald heart rimmed with brilliants. This had been intended as a tribute to success had Esther succeeded, and now it served as well for a sugar-plum to take away the taste of the nauseous medicine of failure. " You have been taking last night too much to heart, I see," said his grace, as he sat down opposite to her. " Fm sure I haven't," she returned, half sullen and half defiant. "You don't think I care for that woman's spite. She wouldn't have sent in 54 A RISING STAR. a whole crowd of people to hiss me if she hadn't known that I should have made a success." " Did you make a success, my dear ? " asked his grace drily. He raised his eyebrows, and his eyeglass fell. He groped uncertainly for it, and having found it returned it to its place. Esther was staring at him angrily. " Success ! Of course I made a success ! It was only that wretched woman's spite. She paid people to come in and make a noise." " Well, well," said his grace, " I have heard of such things. But you mustn't be down-hearted, my dear. We'll try again a little later on Ñ try something simpler, and I've no doubt that we shall do very well in time." " I'm not going to give in," said Esther. " I A RISING STAR. 55 know I was a bit nervous, but who wouldn't be on a first night in front of such a house as that ? I shan't be nervous on Monday, though." " No," said the duke. " You won't be ner\'ous on Monday. You've not heard from ]\Ir. Glynne, I suppose?" " No," said Esther, a Httle surprised at the question ; " I haven't. What has he got to say to me ? " " He spoke of sending you a message," his grace responded. " But in the meantime look at this." He laid the little morocco case he had brought with him on the table, and opening it displayed its dainty interior of pearl-coloured satin and ruby velvet. '' There's a pretty trifle for you." "Oh!" cried Esther, and rising, leaned across 56 A RISING STAR. the table and drew it towards her with both hands. " Oh ! oh ! Is that a real emerald ? " " Yes," said his grace with a dry twinkle, and nodding his shaking head a little, " it is a real emerald." " And the diamonds ! are they real, too ? " " I believe it is all real," returned the duke. " I must put that on at once," said Esther, and straightway fled to a mirror, where she fixed the arrow at her throat, and postured in changing attitudes to watch the sheen of the pearls reflected in the glass. Only one regret marred her joy in this new possession, and that was that she had been silly enough to cry so much over-night and so to spoil her beauty. The gift sent all thoughts of the giver from her mind, and she attitudinised like a peacock. The old gentleman watched her, A RISING STAR. 57 amused and cynical, until at length, by mere accident, she caught the expression of his face as seen in the glass; and with that intuition which was not the least dangerous part of her, read its meaning in a flash. She was not quite sure that his glance had not met her own, and she was altogether too good an actress socially to let him think that she had been reminded of a dut}'. She went on with her attitudes and sidelong glances for a minute ; and then, taking the jewelled trifle from its place, she turned round upon him and kissed it towards him. Then she began to play about him with all manner of childish uiinauderies, saying how good he was, and how generous. " Nobody ever thought of giving me pretty things before, and )'Ou give me everything I want, 58 A RISING STAR. and lots, lots of things that I should never dream of asking for. You are good and kind. It must be nice to be as good as you are, and to have such heaps of money, and to make everybody happy and contented. Isn't it nice, now, tell me?" She sat down beside him, having laid the little brooch upon the table, and clasping her hands hung them lightly on his shoulder, looking into his face with earnest, childish, worshipful eyes, and wishing with all her heart meanwhile that her nose and eyelids were less red and swollen. " Isn't it nice, you dear old duke? Now tell me." " Yes," the old gentleman answered, pinching her cheek. " It's very nice." " Do you know," said Esther thoughtfully, " I should like to be a duchess." The venerable beau smiled at her quite placidly, but with such an A RISING STAR. 5g underlying richness of enjoyment that Esther understood. " Should you ? " he asked. " Why should you like to be a duchess ? " " Oh, duchesses have carriages, and servants, and horses, and jewels, and castles, and they go to Court Ñ oh, I should love to go to Court, and have a train as long as the room, as long as two sides of it, and have ostrich feathers in my hair, and be all over Ñ oh ! all over Ñ ^jewels. Then 1 could always have everything I wanted, and do everything I pleased." "Ah!" said the duke, "that is your simple ambition, is it?" The Duke of Belisle had been young, and now was old ; and all his life lon^, from his earliest man- hood up till now, he had known and studied the 60 A RISING STAR. ways of the daughters of the horseleech. He had spent enough on that graceless tribe to have founded an endowed hospital ; but he had done it to please himself, and not in the least because any of the hungry sisterhood had ever imposed upon him for a moment. He knew every weapon in their ar- moury, every glance and lure ; and now, in his old age, he took a cynical pleasure in walking amongst their wiles. Esther lacked the old gentleman's experience ; but she had her own simplicity to fall back on, her youth, her innocence, and her want of knowledge of the world ; and these served her in almost as good stead. The duke laughed ; and Esther, laughing in answer, skipped away, and, re- turning the jewel to its case, snapped the spring fastening, with a look and gesture of infantile triumph. At that moment a ring sounded at the A RISING STAR. 6l bell, and a little later the albino parlour-maid, solemn and ageless, presented a note to Miss Delacour. "You'll let me read this?" she asked the duke ; and he assenting with a nod, she broke the seal, and after a mere glance at the contents of the letter cast it passionately on the floor. " Oh ! " said his grace. '' What is this ? " " That man ! " she cried. " That wretch ! That Glynne ! He has the impertinence to tell me that I am not to play again. He says he has engaged Miss Gingestra Broom to take my place." The name of Miss Gingestra Broom was pronounced with the supremest scorn. " I'll let him know about that ! Jing ! Jing Broom ! The dowdy little old-fashioned creature ! Oh ! it's abominable ! I can't put up with it." 62 A RISING STAR. "What do you propose to do?" his grace inquired. " You gave me the part," said Esther. " They dare not take it away from me." " My dear," his grace answered tranquilly, " I gave 3/0U the sweetmeat because you cried for it. I told you it would disagree with you, and it has done so." " I'm Ñ I'm not " Esther began, stammering, with a look of horrified astonishment. " I'm not to play the Little Widow any more? " " No, my dear. You are not to play the Little Widow any more. Everybody knew you couldn't do it ; but you wanted it, and so I let you have it." The corners of her mouth fell piteously, and her eyes began to fill with tears. She said nothing, but looked at him with a face almost comically distorted by her grief. The bright tears welled over and ran A RISING STAR. 63 fast. The duke took up the one glove he had dis- carded, drew it on, and adjusted it to a nicety. " You will have your cry out," he said, " and spoil yourself for a day or two. When that is over, and you are fit to be seen again, you can let me know. Good-afternoon. There are more things in the world than the Little Widow, and dis- appointment is sometimes a very wholesome bitter." CHAPTER XIX. All the world knew perfectly well that the Duke of Belisle and his eldest and only surviving son, the Marquis of Limesborough, were not on good terms with each other ; but few people knew how virulent a hatred existed between them, until that memorable day when they quarrelled openly in the library of the Five-year-old Club. The duke had joined that institution when it was composed entirely of elderly men, and the marquis had joined it when the elderly men had practically, if not explicitly, retired from it. His grace knew nothing of the character that the club had acquired under (64) A RISING STAR. 65 the management of Captain Heaton, and of an afternoon the place was almost always deserted, save for one or two old fogies who read the news- papers and magazines. The drinking and gambling contingent came in towards midnight, and from that hour on till four or five in the morning the billiard room and card rooms were lively and noisy enough. The Duke of Belisle and the Earl of Bridgewater had been the most influential of the initial com- mittee of the club ; and the venerable earl, together with his son. Lord Hawnes, was present at the explosion between the marquis and his father. It appears that Lord Limesborough, with four of his companions, had stopped in Pall Mall to argue a question of equine pedigree. This matter became complicated by the question as to what horse ran VOL. III. 5 66 A RISING STAR. third in the Oaks of a particular year. Bets on the double dispute were freely offered and taken, and the voices of the band were so noisy and emphatic as to disturb the inmates of the library. The Marquis of Limesborough was by far the eldest of the whole contingent. He was verging on forty, and his companions were all titled youngsters, who ranged in age from two to eight and twenty. They all had a reverence for Limes- borough, inasmuch as he could drink harder, was fouler-mouthed, displayed less sense of shame in any society, and would one of these days have immensely more money than any of them. They were all more or less pupils in his school, and the probabilities are that they would have been con- tent with his decision on a single point ; but, as it happened, he gave a verdict against both the dis- A RISING STAR. 67 putants, deciding in favour of one party with regard to the question of pedigree, and in favour of the other in regard to the identity of the horse who ran third. All the disputants being convinced that the two questions were locked together, and that the solution of one decided the other, they refused to accept this decision, and the squabble became so animated as to cause quite a block in the road. A listening cabman was so polite as to offer to decide both questions for the price of a pot. The marquis opened upon the cabman the batteries of satire with such effect that a bishop on his way to the Athenaeum, who had at one time been a frequent guest at the table of the Duke of Belisle, was so hideousl)- afraid of a public recogni- tion that he bolted into a club of which he was not a member, and asked there for a fellow-digni- 68 A RISING STAR. tary of the Church whom he knew not to be a member either. The voices of the disputants were so loud that the whole ribald encounter was heard clearly in the library of the Five-year-old Club. Lord Hawnes, a man of the strictest morals and of pro- nounced evangelical tendencies, rose and rang the bell, with intent to give instructions to a waiter to remove the disputants. At the sound of the marquis's volley the duke shrugged his shoulders and said : Ñ " That is my cub, Bridgewater. I believe," he added a moment later, "that the blackguard is coming here." Lord Limesborough's noisy voice was indeed heard in the corridor, and almost immediately he burst into the room, demanding loudly as he A RISING STAR. 6g came the whereabouts of the Stud Book and Ruff's Guide. He was not intoxicated, or near it, but he had been drinking, and his companions were in like condition with himself. Lord Hawnes was standing with his hand upon the bell-pull, and as they entered he rang a second peal. A liveried waiter answered the summons. "Will you kindly remind these gentlemen," he said, in his evangelical platform manner, " that this is the library of the club, that silence is enjoined by placards upon the wall, and that smoking is prohibited here ? " The Marquis of Limesborough hearing this wheeled round, and stared at the reprover from head to foot. " You be d d," said the marquis. " Mind your own business.'" ^0 A RISING STAR. Being almost Ñ though not quite Ñ sober, he wore his drawing-room manners in his father's presence. " How do?" he added ungraciously, nodding at his sire. " Smoking is not allowed in the library, my lord," said the waiter respectfully. "All right, johnny," his lordship responded. "We shall clear in a crack. Where's the Stud Book?'' The waiter having served his turn retired, and the marquis and his companions having secured the two volumes from the shelves made hurried search in their pages, and discovered that Lord Limesborough was in the right in both instances. The youngest of the crew, being an angry dunder- head by nature, and more excited by drink than any other member of the party, flatly declined to A RISING STAR. jt accept the dictum of the authorities to which he had appealed. At this the marquis, who was never slow to anger, forgot his parlour manners, and returned freely to the speech which had grown natural to him. He belched a mouthful of shame- less insults at the disputant, a string of phrases so foul that a drunken coster would hardly have em- ployed them in the hearing of respectable people. The duke sprang to his feet and struck him roundly on the chest with a walking cane which he had been nursing in his tremulous old hands. " You blackguard ! You blackguard ! " he cried, with blazing eyes. "You cur, and cad, and hound ! " For the moment the old man was young again, and his head forgot its senile, palsied tremor. For one astonished, wrathful second Limesborough 72 A RISING STAR. glared back at him ; and then, but for the inter- vention of his comrades, would have struck him. But they, though taken as much by surprise as himself, were too quick for him. " Look here. Limes.," said one of them, clinging on to him with both hands, " this won't do. This ain't good enough. No ; it really ain't, now. We can't stand by and see a man going for his governor." " Governor be d d ! " roared the marquis. " I'll teach him to lay a hand on me." " Leave my presence, sir," said the duke, recover- ing his self-possession as swiftly as he had lost it. " Go back to the society of your pot and stable companions. If you were not Ñ most unhappily for me Ñ my son, I should disdain to waste a word upon you." A RISING STAR. 73 The marquis said, in his own forcible manner, that he was a better man than his father had ever been. He so garnished this plain statement that it took him half a minute to deliver it. " I think," said the duke, " that some of you young gentlemen are known to me. I know }'ou, I fancy," he continued, singling out one of the group. " Your grandfather and your father were friends of mine, and both were gentlemen. If you choose to be known by any other name, you can hardly take a quicker way to the contempt of all well-bred people than by associating with my son." The marquis rose to fever heat at this, and the eight restraining hands had their work cut out for them. But though Lord Limesborough had been gifted by nature with a ph\'sique of extraordinar\' splendour, and though he was still known as one of 74 A RISING STAk. the quickest boxers and hardest hitters in London, he could never stay beyond a single round. His wind gave way to the struggle, and he stood pant- ing, with his clean-shaven, handsome, animal face scarlet with rage and exertion, and the sweat standing in beads upon his brow. The duke had watched the struggle with an eye of scornful tranquillity, and when it was over he turned to the aged earl, his compeer. "You knew that ruffian's mother, Bridgewater ? " he said. " I declare to you, before heaven, if I had not known her to be an angel of purity and goodness I would not believe this fellow was my son." Lord Limesborough panted that that cock wouldn't fight. He cited with unnecessary veiled emphasis, " Like father, like son," and cast a broad reflection upon the duke's own mode of life. A RISING STAR. 75 " I have lived to amuse myself," said his father, " but I have amused myself like a gentleman. One may be happy in this world without adopting the manners and language of a drunken potboy." '' Look here, Limes.," said one of the men, when the marquis had broken out once more, '' I'm not going to stand this. I tell you to your face," Ñ he did not, as a fact, for he was half choking from behind the gentleman he addressed with two brawny hands which grasped him b}' the collar Ñ " I tell you to your face that you're behaving in a jolly bad way, and that when we've got you out of this I shall wash my hands of you." At this another man took heart of grace. " No, d n it all. Limes., you're not a gentleman. Upon my word, you're not." He made this announcement with an air of 76 A RISING STAR. manful surprise and discovery, and shook his head at his late leader and boon companion sorrowfully. " Your set is better than I fancy, Limesborough," said the duke. " I advise them heartily to permit you to disgrace yourself alone." The marquis was in too decided a minority to persist, and he sullenly permitted himself to be withdrawn. It pierced even his crude intelligence when the two men who had repudiated him within the club accosted a cabman and drove off without a farewell word. It hit him even harder when the weaker-kneed ones pleaded an engagement which he knew to be non-existent. " Oh, that be hanged ! " he said. " Come and have some fizz. Here ! I'll stand a dinner. Come and order what you like." A RISING STAR. 77 But even the weak-kneed ones stood firm to their imaginary engagement. "Can't do it, dear old chappie. DeUghted if I could, but a promise is a promise, don't you know, and " He turned away from them with an oath, and plunging into another club, called for champagne and drank by himself gloomily in a corner until he was carried out by the waiters, propped up in a cab, and driven home. This, too, brought about a severe humiliation, for the first thing which greeted his aching sight next day was a letter from the club secretary, stating that the committee had been sitting on the previous evening, and had unanimously issued an instruction that the Marquis of Limesborough should be requested to remove his name from the books. The whole story got y8 A RISING STAR. abroad with many additions and exaggerations. There were men in town who knew other men who had been eye-witnesses at the scene of a diaboHcal thrashing inflicted by the marquis on his aged father. There were men who knew men who had met one of the duke's doctors and were able to report on irrefragable authority that the venerable duke was m exti'emis. The Marquis of Limes- borough was not much seen in respectable society ; but he knew crowds of easy-going, haphazard- living young fellows, who, in spite of the empty and aimless lives they led, were honourable and courageous, and who showed their disapproval of his reported conduct in the most unmistakable fashion. They cut him dead in the street, they turned their backs upon him at table in his favourite supper resort in the Strand. He found the cold A RISING STAR. 79 shoulder preferred everywhere. Even Tom, Dick, and Harry of the second- and third-rate range of his acquaintance were awkward in their greetings ; and after a week or two, during which he had in vain striven to hve down the memory of that unfortunate afternoon, he went to his country seat, taking with him two or three of the staunchest and most determined of his toadies Ñ a Httle handful of gentlemen who would have chummed with Beelze- bub for the sake of eleemos}'nary champagne. The marquis, who had inherited his mother's fortune, was well-to-do, and a scattering gener- osity was perhaps the best point he had about him. His friends got the best of everything the world afforded, and being none too well off themselves, were shut up for a week or two in measureless content. But in a little while their host found 80 A RISING STAR. the quiet and retirement of the country pall upon him. To drink in the dining-room, to drink in the smoking-room, to drink at billiards, was but a poor and feeble imitation of London life, where half a dozen raffish clubs and as many raffish restaurants were open eighteen hours out of the twenty-four for his delectation. The country was frost-bound, and there was no hunting. His lordship, though theoretically an upholder of the game laws, had but the poorest preserves. All the stories told in the smoking-room at night were drearily old. Thus an intelligent man of the party, a bright young journalist ruined for life by a premature acquaintance with the sporting aris- tocracy, described their evening afterwards by a solitary quotation from Macbeth, slightly altered to suit the case. " We sat each night with chest- A RISING STAR. 8l nuts in our lap, and munched, and munched, and munched." Students in slang will recognise the aptness of the citation. It happened one morning that the marquis, quite out of tune with himself and his surroundings, set out to walk alone on the high road which led from his own gates to the count}- town, some seven miles distant. He had not brought with him even a dog for a companion, and he was completely- hipped and out of spirits. A pint of champagne before breakfast and a repetition of the dose at the morning meal had not quite banished the nauseous and aching memory of last night's brandy and soda, and he was so queasy over his pet meerschaum that he deposed it in favour of a cigarette. He was not easily amenable to shame, but he had had perforce a good many hours of sobriety to live, VOL. III. 6 82 A RISING STAR. though since he had banished himself from London, and more especially in the morning, he had been forced to stand in the presence of a magisterial better self, who told him in forcible and more convincing language than any one outside him could have found that he had acted very much like a coward and a cur. Perhaps the only moral qualities the poor fellow re- spected were those which belonged to courage ; and if he could at all have put upon paper the sentiments which filled his mind at quiet and re- flective times, he would certainly have written to his father to apologise for conduct which he him- self felt to be indefensible. But the duke, with all his vices, was a lover of the arts, and a terrible stickler about forms of expression. His eldest son had never been able to address him without awak- A RISING STAR. 83 ening a spirit of irony ; and the marquis, much as he repented, knew himself too clumsy, too stupid, to convey to his angry father a sense of his own humiliation and distress. He was ploughing along the frozen road, hitting savagely with the walking-stick he carried at the withered wayside weeds and hedgerows, when, rounding a bend in the road, he heard the frosty clatter of a horse's feet and the hum of distant wheels. He looked up for an instant, and failing to recognise the occupants of the approaching dogcart, swung on again, flogging at the hedges as he walked. The morning sun was strong enough to have turned the night's hoar frost into diamond dewdrops, and he bedewed himself plenteously, thrashing at the higher branches as he walked. The dogcart came to a sudden stand- 84 A RISING STAR. still, and a mellow, portly-sounding voice hailed the pedestrian. '' Good-day, my lord ; I hope I see you well." Limesborough looked up, and recognised Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop, who, in furred gloves and an overcoat faced with astracan at the cuffs and collar, looked like a genial personification of the contin- ental waiter. By his side sat a delightfully pretty girl, whom Lord Limesborough thought he remem- bered to have seen before. Her cheeks were aglow with the wind and the frost, and her eyes sparkled as brightly as the glittering drops of melting hoar frost on the hedges. "What brings you here?" asked his lordship somewhat surlily. " My company is playing down here at the Royal," said Mr. Wilstrop, pointing his whip back A RISING STAR. 85 across his shoulder in the direction of the town. " I shall be proud to place a box at }'our lordship's disposal on any evening if )'OU should care to come over. We play ' ^Macbeth ' to-night, ' Othello ' to-morrow, ' The Gamester ' Wednesday." "I've seen ail that sort," said his lordship gruffly, taking a new cigarette from his case and lighting it at the stump of his old one. " Introduce me, Wilstrop." '* Pleasure I " cried the manager, beaming. " I think the young lady at my side is not altogether unknown to your lordship. I think I saw your lordship in the box of his grace the Duke of Belisle on the night of the first production of ' The Little Widow '." " Oh, of course," said the marquis. " I was a bit sprung that night, and don't remember much 86 A RISING STAR. about it. You ought to be a relative of mine, Miss Delacour. You've got my name, any way, and I never heard of any other family that carried it." "This is the Marquis of Limesborough, Miss Delacour," said Mr. Wilstrop with a wave of the hand at once lordly and deferential, Ñ "the eldest son of the Duke of Belisle, whom you know already." Esther bowed in answer to the nod the marquis gave her, and surveyed the son of her noble patron with some interest, thinking him extremely unlike his father. "Miss Delacour in the company?" asked his lordship. " Miss Delacour," returned Mr. Wilstrop, " is accepting a course of dramatic tuition at my hands. If I may be allowed to say so in her A RISING STAR. 87 presence, she is a young lady who has a great dramatic future before her, but she lacks experience. That deficiency we are endeavouring to supply." "Playing to-night, Miss Delacour?" asked the marquis. " Yes," she answered, panting. " A good-for- nothing part. Just a line or two. I'm Fleance." " You're what ? '' asked the marquis. " I'm playing Fleance," she said, with a face of comic disgust. " It's a boy's part." " Oh ! " said his lordship, heightening into interest for the first time. " I'll come and have a look at you. Keep the stage box for me, Wilstrop. I've got three or four fellows staying with me at my place, and we'll all come over. You ought to look doosid well in tights," he added, nodding at Esther as he spoke. OO A RISING STAR. The girl flushed a little under his impertinent gaze, and made a new face of undisguised disdain ; and Lord Limesborough, with a laugh, set out upon his walk again, shouting across his shoulder that he would drive over after dinner. He kept his promise, and the dignity of Shake- spearian tragedy suffered somewhat from the presence of his party, who made audible comments on the text and the aspect and action of the characters. They were twice called to order by an indignant house, which was robbed of fear by the strength of numbers. Miss Delacour was a privileged member of the company, and enjoyed advantages which are not often at the command of young people who play subsidiary parts in a travelling company. Wher- ever it was possible to make such an arrangement A RISING STAR. 8g she had a dressing-room to herself, and the faith- ful Mrs. Jordan acted as her maid. That not too rigid dragon was absent when Lord Limes- borough strolled behind the scenes. He drank a brandy and soda with Mr. Wilstrop with his customar}- affability, and returning into the dress- ing-room of the leading lady, had the door shut in his face with a shriek and cackle of simulated indignation. He pursued his investigations undisturbed, and at the next open door marched in, to find Fleance in boy costume, looking very dainty and graceful and petite. Esther's back was turned to the intruder, and in her left hand she held an oval ivory-backed mirror, by the aid of which she was arranging her hair and the feathered cap which sat jauntily on its coil of reddish copper colour. go A RISING STAR. She heard the footstep behind her, but the first intimation of the sex of the new-comer was con- veyed to her by the aromatic scent of the cigar his lordship sucked. It might have been Mr. Wilstrop, for he occa- sionally defied rules in that way, and she did not trouble to turn and verify the fancy. But by-and-by something brushed her hair, and she saw in the glass she held the heavy handsome features of the Marquis of Limesborough, who was leaning over her shoulder with a smile somewhat satyr-like, and whose face was almost touching her own. She met the reflection of his eyes with an in- solence of scornful self-possession which at least matched the impudence of his approach ; but the noble marquis was not easily to be daunted. He put his arm about her waist and hugged her A RISING STAR. QI suddenly. At that the girl turned in a passion of rage, and dealt him a back-handed blow with the mirror which sent his hat fl}'ing through the open door. She struck so shrewdly that the glass was broken from its frame and fell with a crash upon the floor, and then she stood with quivering nostrils and dilated gaze staring at this titled impertinent man as if she could willingly have made an end of him. The marquis put his lavender-gloved hand to the side of his face twice or thrice, and looked at it as if he doubted the result of the blow. He was a trifle rueful for a second or two, but showed no signs of anger. His red face began to twitch, and his eyes to twinkle, and at last he burst into a great shout of laughter. " By gad," he said, " you are a tartar ! " 92 A RISING STAR. " Leave my room, sir," said Esther. " Hoity-toity ! " said his lordship, in response. She stamped her Httle foot, cased in its satin page's shoe, and waved him to the door with an indignation so vivid that, to his own great surprise when he found time to think about it, he left the room, and heard a second door slammed in his face. " That's a clinking pretty little woman," he said to himself, rubbing at the ear with which the ivory back of the glass had come into contact. " I must have another look at her." CHAPTER XX. The brilliant and continued success of " The Little Widow" made quite a personage of Jing; and the little woman could, if she had been so pleased, have spent her life in a complete round of gaieties. Her success in the part had been instantaneous and complete, and in that fact there was nothing to excite surprise. She was barely two and twenty years of age, but she had had nineteen years' experience of the boards. She had been wheeled upon the scene in a baby carria^^e, and had sung a baby song in the annual pantomime which was (93) 94 A RISING STAR. produced at about the date of her third birth- day. Since then she had played everything which could possibly be supposed to be within the scope of child, or girl, or woman. She had played in farce, pantomime, extravaganza, burlesque, tragedy, comedy. She had played Juliet and Romeo, Aladdin and Lady Macbeth. She had been the Osric to many Hamlets, had played Nan in " Good for Nothing," and Sam Willoughby in " The Ticket of Leave Man ". This was the education which, in days now vanished, made a stage artist. She danced well enough to make a capital columbine, she sang well enough to be more than commonly reliable as a singing chambermaid, she played the great traditional female parts in the good old tradi- A RISING STAR. 95 tional style, modernised a little by her own delicacy and observation. But the whole bent of her talent lay natively in the direction of comedy ; and there her pretty face and charming presence, in combination with her perfect familiar- ity with the boards, made her almost invaluable. Glynne, who in his unsuccessful days had been known as a rather hard-fisted man of business, blossomed unexpectedly into generosity when fortune reached him, and Jing drew a salary such as she had never dreamed of. It was moderate enough, as salaries go to-da\-, but it multiplied by five or six the figure which had represented the financial income of the family. Papa Broom, who had earned the right to take his ease with dignity in these late hours of life, went dressed in lustrous broadcloth, joined g6 A RISING STAR. a theatrical club Ñ where he established himself as a prime favourite Ñ and, not to be altogether idle and dependent, made more or less of a show of training- pupils for the stage. Mamma Broom sank quite contentedly from her provincial eminence of first old woman into the position of her daughter's housekeeper, and made the modest establishment in Keppel Street as neat as a new pin from garret to basement. This establishment, modest as it was, was too big for the family needs ; and Mrs. Broom had lodgers in the upper floors, two elderly profes- sional gentlemen, who were orderly in their habits and gave her no trouble in the way of moral supervision. There was no trudging now to rehearsal half a dozen times a week ; and the well-saved black A RISING STAR. 97 silk, hitherto reserved for Sundays, became com- mon to the week-day afternoons ; and the old lady had such a wonderful stateliness of affability with the one small London slavy she employed that that young person reverenced her as if she had been a duchess. " Unless my memory deceives me, Anna ]\Iaria, I instructed you to remove those potato peelings half an hour ago." A warning like this, delivered in the tone which life-long- habit had made natural to her, sank into the slavy's soul, and she was ready to fly at any moment to do the old lady's bidding. To Mrs. Broom the whole surroundings were elysian. She was off the boards, but she never ceased to act. In the little house in Keppel Street she was the dowager ruler of a lordly hall ; VOL. III. 7 98 A RISING STAR. and her sway, though mild and gentle, was magnificent. No cup of human happiness, however fortunately concocted, escapes the little drop. There was one thing which kept the whole household from being completely happy, and that one thing was the settled gloom which Mark carried with him every- where. They were an honest and affectionate household ; and the old people had grown, long ago, to look on Mark as if he were a favourite son. They had believed in his talent from the time when he had first become their lodger, and in one or two times of trial they had had ample reason to believe in his goodness. Now, they enjoyed the first fruits of his success. Jing's splendid advancement and the ease and comfort of their own old age were due to A RISING STAR. QQ Mark, and they gave him love and worship in as full proportion as if he had actually been of their own flesh and blood. He looked in on them now and again, and sat at their plain but plenteous and tasteful table. He walked about a good deal with old Broom, and gave no sign of underrating them in the midst of his own prosperity. But he was no longer the merry lad of old. The jolly laugh was silent, and the light smile had vanished. Not so long ago he could hardly make a journey through the streets without picking up something provocative of mirth ; but his quips and cranks were over. He walked about with a sore heart and in- different eyes, caring for nothing. Not even the astonishing fact Ñ which had, as students of the modern British drama know, only the rarest pre- cedent Ñ the fact that a French dramatist of dis- 100 A RISING STAR. tinction had bought the right to translate his comedy and produce it in Paris, awoke him from his apathy. His American rights found an excellent market, Ñ Glynne, who had a share in the profits, saw to that Ñ a travelling company was sending in con- siderable fees from the provinces, and Glynne paid him a weekly cheque as his royalty at the Sheridan which would have been satisfactory as a half-year's wages half a year ago. But he cared for none of these things. He roamed about, idle and listless, neglecting the two or three dramatic commissions offered to him ; and casual people who met the author of the brilliant little comedy wondered where the silent, mournful youngster had found his stores of fun. Jing suffered from all this more than anybody ; A RISING STAR. lOI but she bore up in her own quiet fashion, and con- tinued to wear an air of placid cheerfulness deceptive to all eyes but her mother's. Sometimes her look would dwell on Mark's face as he sat silent at the luncheon table, trifling, with no appetite, with the meal before him, and whilst she watched him her mother would watch her in turn, reading the truth which Jing would have died rather than reveal. There was no denying the fact that Jing was pale, that her cheeks had lost the roundness of their out- line, or that her eyes looked larger and brighter than they should have done. She was fretting in- wardly, Ñ and fretting, as Mrs. Broom knew only too well, for Mark's sake. It happened one night that Mark called at the house in Keppel Street when Jing was at the theatre. He wore the manner which had grown usual to him. 102 A RISING STAR. and after drumming absently on the table for a quarter of an hour, and answering " Yes " and " No " at half random to whatever was said to him, rose to leave. " You're not in any hurry, Mark ? " the old lady asked him, " I don't know that I am," Mark answered, with a sort of tired irresolution. " You'd better go out for a bit of a walk. Broom," said the old lady, addressing her husband. " I want to have Mark to myself for a bit." The old gentleman looked a mild surprise at this, but went out without a murmur. A little later they heard him close the door ; and Mark, who resumed his seat, waited with no particular interest for what was coming. " I hope and believe, Mark," the good motherly soul began, with an anxious and hesitating manner, ?m A RISING STAR. IO3 " that there's no need to tell you that you're very kindly welcome to our house." " Well, no," said Mark, " I hope not." The un- expected opening startled him a little. " I'm sure I've never seen any reason to doubt my welcome. I hope you don't think I ever did doubt it." " I hope you never will, Mark," said the old lady, " though I've got to say something which perhaps might make you think it. But you must never dream it, Mark. We're not ungrateful, and we know ver}' \^¥ell that we owe }'ou everything." " Oh, as to that," cried Mark, roused to protest Ñ but Mrs. Broom took his hand in hers affectionately and cut him short at once. "We all know that and feel it, Mark, and it makes what I have got to say to you all the harder. I want you not to come here quite so often." 104 A RISING STAR. He was indeed startled at this, and looked at her with a shocked surprise. " I knew I should hurt you," she went on, "and I knew you'd wonder. I don't like to say it, but I suppose I'd better be quite plain with you. I'm an old woman, and that gives me a sort of right to speak. I'm sure, Mark, I don't believe there's a better young man in the world, and I'm sure I couldn't be prouder of you or fonder of you if you belonged to me." " I'll do anything you want me to do, of course," Mark answered rather disconsolately ; " but I con- fess I should like to know your reason." " It's for Jing's sake, Mark," said the old lady, taking out her handkerchief and mopping her eyes. " For Jing's sake ! " Mark echoed, with a wondering, half-incredulous look at her. A RISING STAR. IO5 "Jing's the best girl in the world," said Mrs. Broom, "and she'd cry her eyes out for very shame if she thought I'd ever spoken such a word to you. But I know how your fancy's gone, Mark, and I'm very sorry for it ; because I don't think Esther is the sort of girl to make a good man happy." " Don't say any more about that, please," said Mark rather coldly and sternly. "I won't, dear," cried the old woman, "not a word. But you understand me now, Mark, don't you ? " "No," said Mark, with perfect truth. " I don't, indeed." " Not about Jing, Mark ? I'm afraid you're very blind. Jing thinks of you too much, Mark, for her own peace of mind. She doesn't guess I I06 A RISING STAR. know it, but I found it out a long time ago. I found it out as much as two years back, but T always made believe to know nothing ; and to this hour she never guesses. I took no notice, because if you'd taken a fancy to her, as I used to think you might do, I could have died happy to see you two together ; but now I know that that can never be, and I should be glad if you would help me to let poor Jing's fancy wear itself out. She's a good girl, Mark, and it breaks my heart to think that she should have thrown her own away on a good man who can never be anything to her but a friend. You're not angry with me, Mark?" "Angry ! " said Mark, and nothing more. Mrs. Broom's tears were flowing freely by this time ; but except that he smoothed with an A RISING STAR. IO7 affectionate touch the soft and withered old hand he held within his own, he did nothing to help her to restrain them. " You'll stop away for a little while, won't you, Mark? " the old lady besought him. "Yes," said Mark, "if you wish it." His whole mind was in a whirl. The intelli- gence came upon him with so swift a surprise that he had hardly yet had time to realise its meaning. "I'll find a way," said Mrs. Broom, "to let her know you care for Esther." " Don't do that, if you please," said the }'oung man almost harshly. " I care no more for Esther than you do. I wish her well, but I have no special interest in her." " Mark ! " cried the old lady, withdrawing her I08 A RISING STAR. hand from his in the excess of her amazement. **You can't mean that?" " I mean it," Mark returned ; '' I mean it absolutely." "But I'd have sworn," said Mrs. Broom, "that you were grieving yourself and wearing yourself into a shadow because she made such a failure in your piece." " No," said Mark. " I never looked for anything but failure. I am Esther's friend, and nothing more. If I can ever be of use to her, I will be, very gladly, but She is as little to me as any girl in all the world." He thought it true enough as he spoke it, though his heart was bleeding even yet from the wound her ungrateful hand had given it. '^ Good-night," he added softly. "You shall A RISING STAR. lOg have your way, and if you see less of me than you used to, you'll understand." " You'll never say a word, Mark ? But there, I needn't talk about that. I know you too well to want to speak to you about it." She took him in her arms and kissed him. Mark kissed her gently back again and went his way. The more he thought about it Ñ and he thought of little else for many nights and days Ñ the more he was persuaded that Jing's pure and innocent fancy had strayed his way. A man need not be a coxcomb to believe as he did upon such evidence ; and yet he felt a taint of coxcombry, and a constant inward reproach against what seemed an absurd vanity as belief grew more and more upon him. He had never believed himself to have known a better girl than Jing. He had known her now for no A RISING STAR. years, and had always known her modest, gentle, untiringly helpful for others, and unceasingly forget- ful of herself Because he himself was a pure-minded and clean-living young fellow, and had lived half buried amongst old books, and lost to the world for the most part in the dusty glamour of his own dreams, he felt as if he were guilty of a sacrilegious invasion in entering, even for a moment, on the privacy of Jing's maiden fancies. And yet he dwelt there not altogether reluctantly, for hours and hours, and days and days. He was not of so poor and unstable a nature that he could change his mind at once ; but if he had asked himself in cold blood at any minute within the last five years, to judge be- tween the sterling womanly qualities of Jing and the altogether selfish, childish charm of Esther, he would have been compelled to see which side of the A RISING STAR. Ill balance kicked the beam. As a matter of fact, he knew, and always had known, that no comparison was possible between them ; but, unhappily, feeling is not always amenable to reason, and of all the passions love is the one which most reluctantly seeks reason's aid. The mother's revelation, how- ever, paved the way for him. A slow and uncon- scious revulsion of feeling set in in the young man's mind, and the thought of Jing always before him brought him nearer and nearer to her. Little by little, his peace of mind came back to him ; and a chance meeting with a manager, who had months ago entrusted him with a commission which he had so far left untouched, gave a fillip to ambition. He went back to work again, and being a young man who had no power to do anything by halves, he threw himself body and soul into his work ; and so, 112 A RISING STAR. by that best and safest of all routes, climbed back to the full possession of himself. He went abroad but little at this time, but occasionally of an evening strolled into the theatre, watched a scene of the play, and smoked a cigar between the acts with Glynne and Francis in the manager's room. The piece looked as if it might run for ever, for on its two-hundredth night there was a bumper house; and Mark, strolling in forget- ful of the occasion, found himself perforce content with standing room at the back of the dress circle. He lingered there for a minute or two only, and was moving away when the round of applause which greeted Jing's entrance stayed him for a little, and he turned again to watch the business of the stage. Almost from the first he thought her manner forced and odd. Her voice rang false. A RISING STAR. II3 and even under her stage make-up her face looked haggard. Her eyes had a strained and unnatural expression, and the spontaneous gentle gaiety which had always until now distinguished her perform- ance had vanished utterly. In the full tide of a bright speech she paused and sank into a garden seat, but recovering herself instantly went on as if that had been a part of the everyday business of the scene. Mark knew otherwise, and ran brimful of anxiety to the stage door, where he passed at once to Glynne"s room. The actor- manager was on the stage, and Mark awaited him ner\-ously for five minlites. He came at last, look- ing worried and ill at ease, and at the first moment of his entr)^ he did not see his visitor, who heard him breathe a soft anathema to himself " Confound it ! Well, it's my luck." VOL. III. 8 114 A RISING STAR. " What's the matter, Glynne ? " Mark asked. "What's the matter with Miss Broom? I was in front five minutes back, and I thought she was going to faint on the stage. There's something very queer about her." " Queer ! " responded Glynne. " I beheve the poor girl's dying." Mark was too horrified to speak. " She's been going from bad to worse for weeks past. Got a chill a month ago Ñ thin boots, wet streets Ñ would go on working. After all there's no great harm in that. No better medicine in the world for an old hand than the footlights. But she's overdone it, and her under-study Ñ you might as well ask a horse to play the part. There isn't ^ a woman in London who can hold a candle to Miss Broom as the Widow. Here we are making money hand over fist, the biggest success of the last A RISING STAR. II5 five years, and if she goes the whole show's burst up." " But is she really seriously ill ? " asked Mark. " My dear man, " cried Glynne, with a brutal plainness, " the girl's dying. The doctor's with her now. She can't get on from scene to scene without restoratives. And what the devil we shall do without her I do not know." Mark was not thinking of the play at all. That for the moment was a matter of the most com- plete indifference to him. "Can I see her?" he asked. "Can I be of any use to her in any way ? " " Better not disturb her," Glynne responded. " She's in good hands, but I don't know that she'll ever be able to get through the night. The other girl's dressed and ready to go on. I may Il6 A RISING STAR. have to explain and apologise between the acts. IVe been expecting that any night this week past." This was sad news for Mark, and would have been at any hour for years past. But now it came with triple force, for since his last interview with Mrs. Broom nobody, excepting Esther, had been in his thoughts so often as Jing. He had always had a warm affection for her, and a complete esteem, and it was terrible to think of the shattered lives of the old people if anything should happen to their idol and the sole prop of the house. Mark had time, in all the whirling hurry of his mind, to think that so long as he was above ground his friends should know no material want ; but in a flash of that vivid fancy which only the trained imaginative intelligence often knows, he A RISING STAR. II7 saw the house empty of its one dehght and joy, and the old people sitting mute and broken by a cheerless hearth. " I hope you're exaggerating the gravity of the case, Glynne," he said, feeling as if he were under compulsion to say something. "I wish I could think so," Glynne answered, " for our own sakes." " I'm not thinking about our own sakes," Mark answered bitterly. The business man's apparent selfishness shocked and hurt him. " I'm thinking of the poor girl herself, and of her father and mother. They're the oldest friends I have in the world, and if your news is true there's nothing less than heartbreak in front of them." " They're a good old couple," Glynne answered. Il8 A RISING STAR. "The old woman's here every night. I'm afraid this is the end of it. Anyway, the poor girl will be worse before she's better, and that's the best that can be said for her. Have some whisky and soda, old chap. I'm so depressed and worried that, upon my word, I can't get through my work with- out it." Mark shook his head in refusal, and at that in- stant a knock sounded at the door. " Come in ! " cried the manager, and Mr. Bon- nington Wilstrop entered hastily. He paused for a moment, embarrassed at the sight of the declared enemy who had expressed himself so openly at their last interview, but recovered his self-possession almost instantly. " I'm sorry, dear boy," he said, addressing Glynne with an exaggerated air and a voice of sympathy. A RISING STAR. IIQ " I am heartily sorr>', but I have bad news for you. Miss Broom can't go on again. You'll have to apologise to the house." "Oh," said Glynne curtly, "how do you know that?" " I was in front, dear boy/' returned Mr. Wil- strop, " and I saw that there was something wrong with the poor creature. I could tell, dear boy, that for one reason or another she was not herself I came round to make inquiries, and I met the doctor. He seized on the chance of my presence, and asked me to bring you the news." " All right," said Glynne, with an air of desper- ate resignation. He drank at a gulp the whisky and soda he had poured out for himself, and after a turn or two up and down the room, went out. The orchestra was in full swing, but the 120 A RISING STAR. manager did not wait for the conclusion of the number on which it was engaged. With a mere wave of the hand he ordered the edge of the curtain to be withdrawn, and walked on to the stage. The music stopped at a single gesture from his hand, and the strange finish brought throngs of curious faces to the doors which led from the corridor to the circle. In a few words he announced the serious indisposition of Miss Broom, that charming actress who had been the life and soul of the piece for a hundred and ninety-nine nights, who had struggled for weeks past to do her duty to the public, in spite of the warnings of her friends and her medical adviser. She had now broken down completely, but Miss Venner was prepared to take her place, and with the kind indulgence of A RISING STAR. 121 the house would assume Miss Broom's part in the second and third acts. This announcement was sympathetically received ; and Glynne walked back to his own room again, where he flung himself gloomily into a chair, and stared at the tips of his patent leather toes. "Don't be down-hearted, dear boy," said Wilstrop, laying a fat hand upon his shoulder. " It's the luckiest thing I ever knew of, that I'm in town at this moment. I can find you the best Little Widow in London. She can walk on to the stage to-morrow night, for she is letter perfect, and she'll knock 'em as high as a kite." "Who is she?" Glynne asked. "She is the young lady, my dear boy," Wilstrop responded, " who failed in this house in that part eight months ago." 122 A RISING STAR. " Oh, go to Putney ! " cried Glynne disgustedly. " I've had enough of that young woman. She can no more play the part than she can fly.'' ** Excuse me, dear boy," broke in Wilstrop. " Am I generally supposed to know my business or am I not ? Do you see any green in this, Bertie ? " He indicated his left eye with a playful forefinger, and shook his head with a smiling self-contentment. " That young woman has been put through the mill this last half-year, and has been put through the mill by me. I gave her her head last week. She played Lady Teazle in Liverpool, and you never saw a house so knocked in all your life. Look here, dear boy. I came round here expecting business. I've looked in for a night or two past, and I've got my proposal ready for you. Cast your eye over that." He drew a blue foolscap A RISING STAR. I23 document from his breast pocket, and Glynne took it from his hand and looked at it. " A three years' engagement, you observe," said Wilstrop. " Ten pounds a week first year, work or play, twenty the second, and thirty the third. Did you ever know me chuck away money like that on a duffer? No, dear boy. You never have and never will." " She must have improved since I saw her," said Glynne, negligently handing back the paper, " and she must have improved a lot, if she's worth a tenth part of the money." " Improved I " cried Wilstrop, beaming all over. "You'll think so when you see her. Now, business, dear boy, business. You can have her for ten pounds a week for six weeks. I don't want, dear boy," he added significantly, "to make a penny 124 A RISING STAR. out of you. I only want a London chance for the prettiest and cleverest little woman on the boards. She's no more like what she was than the moon is like green cheese." " Bring her to rehearsal to-morrow," said Glynne. Mark stole out unheard, and paced the Strand by himself, unwitting of the glare and bustle about him. His feet led him mechanically past Temple Bar, and he had walked the whole length of Fleet Street before he became aware of his own where- abouts. Then he turned his face towards Keppel Street, and walking briskly, with a strange fear at his heart, reached the well-known door, and having stood before it undecided for a while, approached and knocked softly. Old Broom answered the summons. A RISING STAR. 125 "Come in, lad, come in," he whispered, with a backward nod of in\-itation. '* Poor Jing's upstairs. They brought her home in a cab ten minutes since. The doctor's with her, and I'm waiting for his news. I'm afraid she's going to have a bad time of it." " I hope not," said Mark, taking his ner\'eless hand. " I hope not." They entered the sitting-room together, and sat down in silence to await the doctor's coming. CHAPTER XXL Such a buzzing of talk had arisen about that un- happy event of the Five-year-old Club that his grace of Belisle had withdrawn himself from England. The fact that he had been altogether blameless in the matterÑ the fact, indeed, that he had behaved rather more like a man and a gentle- man than he was wont to do Ñ made that fashionable and all-absorbing topic none the more agreeable for him. He had travelled from one winter resort to another ; and now, with the return of warmer weather, was in Paris. The fact of that gay city having finished its season before his arrival made (126) A RISING STAR. I27 little difference to him. His most prized acquaint- anceship lay amongst men of letters, artists, actors and actresses ; and these were to be enjoyed, more or less, all the year round. The Marquis of Limesborough was less sensitive than his father, and was back in London after only a month or two of exile. A very curious thing had happened to his lordship. For the first time in his life he had fallen honestly in love; and the object of his attachment was the daringly virtuous young lady who had broken a hand mirror over his head. The more he thought about that scene with Esther, the more he liked the part she had taken in it. It is no part of our business to inquire too curiously into the history of his lordship's fancies and amours. He had not seen much of the society of virtuous women. He shunned the respectable members of 128 A RISING STAR. the fair sex as instinctively as he himself would have been avoided by them if he had chosen to be seen much amongst them. He thought of himself as of one who had lived a life of conquest ; though the plain truth of that matter was that he had only spent his days in walking out of one vulgar flaring trap into another. He could, of course, have found millions of women who would have resisted his clumsy blandishments if he had known where to look for them ; but he had never, until now, stumbled upon anybody to whom the glamour of his wealth and title made no appeal. And Miss Delacour, having been grossly in- sulted, and having reproved the insulter so vigorously, was not in the mood to change her mind or her manners easily. His lordship did his best in his own way to bring her to reason A RISING STAR. I2g and to friendship. He sent her one or two costly trifles in the way of jeweller}.-, which were indignantly returned to him. During the whole of Esther's stay in the country town he occupied a box at the theatre every night, and found the legitimate drama a sufficiently weary business even when brightened by the presence of an astonishingly pretty unaccountable young woman who was indifferent to diamonds. The company moved away to a town thirty miles distant, and, lo ! on the first night his lord- ship was there. He took his box for the week anonymously, and sat alone in it in shadow, glowering sulkily at the stage, except when Esther was engaged, when he brightened into interest. He sent anonymous presents, which were not returned. Miss Delacour knew per- VOL. III. Q 130 A RISING STAR. fectly well from whom they came, but there was no need for her to show as much, and she was beginning to have a taste in respect to that sort of delightful gewgaw. Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop, who kept as keen an eye upon his own business as any man alive, was aware of what was going on about him. It was his lordship's obvious desire not to be recognised just now, and Mr. Wilstrop took care to oblige him in that particular. Lord Limesborough found things growing ex- tremely dull. He had packed his intimates back to town, and was without society. He lost a good deal of his faculty for drinking under these unwonted conditions, for, strangely enough, he had little native bent that way. Amongst his own set he was not commonly quite sober ; A RISING STAR. I3I but then all the men about him drank, and he joined, more than half for the sake of companion- ship. It had been a habit of his to go to bed nightly in a state of intoxication, but in constitution he was as sound as a roach, and he had the strength of an ox. No physically wholesome man drinks by himself to habitual excess ; and the poor marquis, missing his customary ways, grew very hipped indeed. He was by no means enlightened as to the road on which he was travelling ; and if any- body had told him that he was really and seriously falling in love, he would have laughed the idea to scorn. The scorn would have been in no wise excited by any contemplation of the difference between Esther's social position and his own, for he was no respecter of persons. 132 A RISING STAR. But he did honestly believe at first that he hated the little baggage, and that he had no other intention than to break her pride. He admired her pluck, to be sure, and he bore not a shadow of malice for the blow she had dealt him. That was quite within the limits of the lady's privilege. But her refusal of the jewelled olive branch he offered humiliated and stung him, and he had a furtive satisfaction in her retention of his anonymous presents, as though he enjoyed a triumph over her of which she was ignorant. More than once he made an effort to get away from her. Twice in the course of that week he went home by train, but on each occasion night- fall saw him back again, and he was once more at the theatre in time for the rising of the curtain. " Macbeth," and " Hamlet," and *' Othello," and 1 A RISING STAR. I33 " Coriolanus," " The School for Scandal," and "She Stoops to Conquer" made up the weekly repertoire ; and one and all bored hin^ unutterabl}'. They were all right, of course, "deuced clever and all that sort of thing,'' but not his style. He sat them out with a dreary valour, and bits of some of them came home to him. " Who would fardels bear, to grunt and sweat under a weary life? " He did not know what "fardels" were, but the inquiry touched him nearly. At Cassio's heart-wounded exclamation, "Oh, that men should put an enemy into their mouth to steal away their brains ! " his lordship in his lonely box nodded to himself with emphasis. " Lots of dem 'cute things in Shakespeare," he said to himself ; " knew his way about, that johnny." 134 ^ RISING STAR. But this life of isolation, tempered by no matter what extent of philosophic reflection, grew unbear- able. The marquis threw himself in the way of Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop, and invited that gentle- man to his hotel. He called for champagne, which was his best way of exhibiting hospitality. Mr. Wil- strop's day's work was over ; his lordship naturally had the best suite of rooms in the hotel, and after labour, rest and relaxation were pleasant. It was pleasant, too, to be the sole guest of the Marquis of Limesborough, in a house where both were known ; and altogether the manager was inclined to be in high spirits. He knew his host's taste in narrative, and had whole bundles of stories of a type distinctly Rabelaisian. He was a master of the art of narra- tive, and had grown perfect with practice in every tale he told. He was a magnificent mimic, and A RISING STAR. I35 made every yarn he told live to the ear and eye. The marquis ordered more champagne, and more ; and when Mr. Wilstrop rose with a pretended de- sire to leave, he took him forcibly by the shoulders and reseated him with a boisterous hospitality. When the third bottle was coming to a finish the marquis began to be serious, and an itch for talk- ing came upon him which was not to be resisted. He was compounded of indiscretion, and could no more be trusted with a secret than a child. So he beq-an to talk about Miss Delacour ; and Mr. Wilstrop was not long in discovering that the foolish nobleman was very near being in love with that young lady. " Little beggar's got grit," said his lordship, after relating the stor}' of the dressing-room. " She's got muscle, too, begad. She landed me on the 136 A RISING STAR. side of the head as if she was chopping wood. I admire her for it." "Oh!" said Wilstrop, with the smile of a man of the world Ñ a stage man of the world. " I've not the slightest doubt that the little woman knows how to take care of herself" " Now, you know, you know," said his lordship, with a touch of anxiety discernible alike in face and voice. " She's a straight girl, isn't she ? There's no humbug about her. She didn't go for me that way just because I was a little bit too previous, did she ? " " My dear boy," said Mr. Wilstrop, who knew better than to call a nobleman " my lord " too often ; " if Providence had blessed me with a daughter I would not ask that she should be a more perfect model of discretion and modesty than Miss Dela- A RISING STAR. I37 cour. She is a credit to her sex and her profes- sion." " I thought so," said his lordship. " Begad, I was sure of it ; I wanted to make it up to her, you know. I meant the Httle beggar no harm, but it's my way, don't you know, U'ilstrop. It's ahvays been ' Take me or leave me ' with me ; and to tell the truth, I've pretty generally found 'em ready to come half-wa}'. I sent her a little thing or two Ñ things in the jewellery way, you know Ñ just to see if she wouldn't make friends, and begad she sent 'em back to me before she'd had time to do more than open 'em and look at 'em. Now, Wilstrop, I admire the little girl for that. Upon my word, I do. Don't you, now ? " " As I said before," responded Mr. Wilstrop, " the little lady is a model of virtue and discretion." 138 A RISING STAR. *' I believe she is now," said the marquis. "Upon my soul I do. But I've had the best of her, Wilstrop. I've sent her two or three things, * From an admirer'. D'ye see? Blank paper. No address on it. Straight from the jeweller's. She didn't know where to send 'em back to. She's had to stick to those." He said this with an air of so much triumph and cunning that Mr. Wilstrop instantly obliged him with the laugh his manner asked for. " I'm having a little thing made," pursued the marquis, " a little thing in diamonds, in the shape of the letter L. It's a brooch, you know Ñ the kind of thing they fasten up a bit of lace with. I'm going to send that to her in the same way, and it may just give her a bit of a tip as to where the others came from. She can't send A RISING STAR. 139 them back, after having stuck to 'em, and she'll have to keep that as well, don't you see? Don't you think that's the way to fix it, Wilstrop? I should like to be friends with the little thing. She's a cut above the sort of women you often meet, you know, and I've got a sort of respect for her. I think she's straight, Wilstrop ; and really, you know, there's a lot in that when you come to think of it. She sets a proper value on herself." " * Good name in man or woman, good my lord,' " Mr. Wilstrop answered, " ' is the immediate jewel of the soul.'" He was charmed at first with the double felicity of this quotation, but recalling suddenly to mind the repute in which Lord Limesborough was generally held, he was inwardly convicted of a terrible 140 A RISING STAR. impertinence, and blew his nose to cover his confusion. " Begad, you're right," said the marquis. " And you put it deviHsh well into the bargain. You don't think she'll be offended, do you, Wilstrop? I want to be friends, you know. I don't set up to be a Joseph, and that sort of thing; but, hang it all, 1 never did insult a decent woman. A man's a cad who does that, Wilstrop." The manager had more and more food for reflection. He had had the honour of his lordship's acquaintance for some years, and had never until that evening seen him flying the colours under which he now chose to sail. There was something in this which might possibly tend to his own personal advantage. He was swift to see where the main chance lay. A RISING STAR. I4I and keen to pursue it. He thought he saw it here. "I haven't the sHghtest doubt," he said, "that if I had your lordship's permission to meddle in the matter, I could explain the whole thing to Miss Delacour satisfactorily in a moment." "Of course you could," cried the marquis eagerly. " I wish you would, old chap. I should be awfully obliged to you." " You may rely on that matter, dear boy, as being settled." With that Mr. Wilstrop arose, and resisting all further pressure, went his way to his own apartments, which were situated half-way between the theatre and the hotel. He thought things over as he walked, and as he undressed for bed. The Marquis of Limesborough had barely uttered 142 A RISING STAR. a single oath whilst he had spoken about Esther. He had not drunk to excess as he commonly did. A mere bottle and a half of champagne made short commons for a gentleman of his lordship's habits. He had spoken of the girl not only in words of approval but with a manner which indicated more than he was able, or chose to say. Mr. Wilstrop laid his head upon the pillow with a conviction that Miss Delacour was born to find in him a guide, philosopher, and friend. The further conviction that he, Bonnington Wilstrop, might make something solid and substantial out of the business lent an agreeable colour to his latest waking thoughts. Early in the morning he despatched a message to Esther, who, in answer to his call, appeared at midday. A RISING STAR. I43 " Sit down, my dear," said Mr. Wilstrop, with his most fatherly benevolence of manner. '"'You are looking very fresh and bright and pretty to-day." " I suppose that isn't what you wanted to say to me," said Esther pertly. " Not all 1 wanted to say," the manager re- sponded ; " but I can assure you I don't often see you without thinking it. I want to talk to you quite serioush', my child. I spent an hour or two last night with Lord Limesborough," " Oh," said Esther, raising her hands, " don't speak to me about that man ! He's a brute !" " I am desired by Lord Limesborough," con- tinued Mr. Wilstrop, " to say that he is pro- foundly sorry to have incurred your displeasure. He admits that you treated him quite rightly 144 A RISING STAR. and he admires you very much for the way in which you met an advance which he now admits to have been impertinent." "Thank him for nothing," cried Miss Delacour. " I hope you didn't send for me to tell me that." "That is a part of what I wanted to tell you," said the manager, " but there is something more." "If it's about him," Esther retorted, "you needn't trouble yourself to tell it." " Excuse me, my dear child," said Wilstrop, "you must listen to what I have to say. The Marquis of Limesborough is, as you know, the son of the Duke of Belisle. The old gentleman has already reached a venerable age. It is evident to the most casual observer that his grace is approaching the allotted limit of his span A RISING STAR. I45 of life. In a year or two, at the outside, the Marquis of Limesborough will be the Duke of Belisle. He will hold one of the proudest titles and one of the greatest fortunes in the world." "I know all about that," said Esther. "But what has it got to do with me ? The man's a beast Ñ and I hate him." " The marquis," continued Mr. Wilstrop, un- heeding this outburst, which was offered with unusual vehemence, Ñ " the Marquis of Limes- borough has many qualities of the better sort which you have not so far found time or oppor- tunity to investigate." *' Bother ! " said Esther. '' Rubbish ! Everybody knows him ; great big hulking groom ! " " His wife," said Mr. Wilstrop, leaning forward impressively and laying both hands firmly on the VOL. III. 10 146 A RISING STAR. table before him, " his wife will be Duchess of Belisle." Esther made no response to this at all, but sat staring at him in a sort of stupor. " I repeat, my dear," said Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop, " Lord Limesborough's wife will, in the common course of events, become the Duchess of Belisle. She will rank with the highest ladies in the land, and she will be rich beyond the dreams of avarice." Esther's colour changed ; and Mr. Wilstrop, attentively regarding her, noticed a little shudder which seemed to pass all over her. "Is his lordship going to get married ? " she asked, with a considerable effort. The manager smiled and waved both his fat white hands in the air, and sank back comfortably into his seat. " Not immediately, I fancy, but " He paused A RISING STAR. I47 and smiled again, unctuously and with a deep enjoyment. Esther went paler yet, and her large eyes grew and grew as she fixed her gaze upon him. "What do you mean?" she asked. She spoke in a harsh whisper. " I mean," said Mr. Wilstrop, " that I know a young lady who, if she played her cards properly, and under competent direction Ñ understand me clearly, my dear child Ñ properly, and under com- petent direction Ñ might have a chance of occupy- ing the exalted position whose advantages I have so feebly indicated. Think of that, my dear, and think about it more than once or twice." " Did Lord Limesborough say anything ? " Esther made shift to ask. " Anything to you last night?" " Lord Limesborough said much to me last night," returned Mr. Wilstrop, " but nothing which could in 148 A RISING STAR. the slightest degree bind or implicate himself. I don't say that, even if you played your cards with the most perfect discretion, what I have shadowed forth would be certain to come to pass ; but I think, my dear, that I might be of service to you, and I am perfectly willing to try. I think, my dear, that you had better have a glass of wine." She looked as if she needed it, for her very lips were bloodless, and the look in her eyes was almost one of horror. He poured out a glass of sherry, and she drank it at once. Her colour came slowly back again, and she sat in silence, drawing off one of her gloves and plucking absently at its fingers. " You needn't try to make a fool of me, Wilstrop," she said after a long silence. " Either you've got some right to talk to me like this, or you haven't. Which is it ? " A RISING STAR. 149 " I tell you, my dear child," said Mr. Wilstrop weightily, " that I believe it can be done. I believe we can do it together, and I am willing to give you all the help I can. Think it over." CHAPTER XXII. Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop's injunction to Esther to think it over was perhaps as completely unnecessary a piece of advice as was ever offered in the history of the world. She went away almost stunned by the astonishing intimation which the manager had conveyed to her mind, and when her wits really began to act again she could think of nothing else. The idea was with her all day long, and mingled in her dreams at night. She knew very little about duchesses ; but Mrs. Jordan had given her a list of the Duke of Belisle's castles and country seats, and she had seen in print a (150) A RISING STAR. I5I pictorially illustrated description of one of thenn, which had filled her mind with wonder. Then, during her brief sta)* in London, she had been with her companion to see the fine ladies alighting from their carriages at a ro}'al reception ; and the trains, and the feathers, and the diamonds, and the big liveried servants who waited on the owners of these things, had driven her wild with envy. To be one of that select body seemed the most glorious destiny in the world. To be able to queen it amongst them was to reach an almost incredible pinnacle of splendour. The thought staggered her, as the contemplation of the infinite oppresses the mind of the philosopher. It was past understanding Ñ a splendour wonderful be- yond all conception. And it is curious to remark, but very natural all the same, that the contempla- 152 A RISING STAR. tion of this high place in the possession of another person filled her with nothing more or less than a mingling of envy and impertinent disdain. Now that it began to look even dimly possible for her- self, she would have regarded as a madman any- body who had advised her to abandon it for the certainty of heaven. Her mind underwent no change as to the Marquis of Limesborough's power to please her. She had aptly experienced her opinion of him at the beginning of her interview with Wilstrop. To her thinking, as to that of a great many other people, he remained an embodi- ment of vulgarity and ill breeding. With all her own shortcomings of character, she had a naturally fastidious taste, and though she had had but little opportunity of cultivating it, she had at least taken full advantage of all her chances. In this one A RISING STAR. I53 respect her life had been an upward progress from the hour when Mark had rescued her from the squalor and misery of her childish home. She despised Lord Limesborough very thoroughly ; but, except as a possible stepping-stone to great- ness, she left him unconsciously out of her calculations. It never entered her head to think what life would mean if she were bound irrevocably to a man of whom she entertained such opinions. She and Wilstrop had more than one conference before the arrival of the gift which was meant to reveal her admirer's identity. They had moved into another town by this time, and here again the infatuated marquis had a box at the theatre. Here again he sat out the week's re- pertoire from "Hamlet" to "She Stoops to Conquer," 154 A RISING STAR. yawning carelessly through speech and action which had no interest for him, and brightening up only at Esther's brief appearances. He had already received from his London jeweller the initial brooch, and on the last night of the week he went down to the theatre, carrying his gift with him in its little morocco case. That night a surprise was in store for him ; for Miss Delacour appeared as Miss Hardcastle, and astonished and delighted him beyond measure. The young lady had been understudying all the leading female parts, and Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop had been instructing her and working with her with a devotion which would have been remarkable had it not bidden so fair to bring a rich reward. Perhaps Esther could nowhere have found a better tutor, and certainly Wilstrop would have had A RISING STAR. I55 difficulty in finding a pupil equally apt and quick. Under his tuition she made extraordinary progress, and her performance that Saturday night delighted the audience and surprised the manager. The marquis lost his head completely, and made himself conspicuous to the whole house. He leaned his red heavy face over the cushion of the box, and roared laughter and applause throughout the piece. He was so enthusiastic as to be something of a nuisance both to audience and performers, for he thought "Miss Hardcastle's least important utterance worthy of a salvo. At the end of the second act he went round to Mr, Wilstrop and congratulated him, with so noisy an effusion that the manager's heart danced 156 A RISING STAR. within him. It need hardly be said, perhaps, that he did not intend to go altogether unrewarded if he succeeded in bagging the marquis as an honourable suitor for Miss Delacour's hand. In point of fact, Mr. Wilstrop had made his arrange- ments already, and saw his way to an unusually good thing. " Splendid, my bo}^ ! " said the marquis, patting Wilstrop on both shoulders. '' Gaudy ! Magnifi- cent ! Never saw anything like it." " I have played the part often," said Mr. Wil- strop, beaming with a sense of his own humour ; " but I have not often succeeded in giving so much pleasure as I seem to have afforded to you this evening." "You!" shouted his lordship. '^ You, you thunderin' old pump ! Who's talkin' about you ? " A RISING STAR. I57 " Not about me ? " said Mr. Wilstrop, with a comically resigned elevation of the eyebrows. " Who then ? " " Why, the little woman." His lordship, who in moments of excitement was strons^er than he knew, dug Mr. Wilstrop in the waistcoat, and knocked all the breath out of the eminent actor's body. " Beats anything I ever saw\ She's just stunning." " Dear boy," said Wilstrop, with a rather ghastly assumption of gaiety, " in a year's time she'll be the best little actress in England. She's going to be worth twenty or thirty thousand pounds to me. I've got her for three years, and when this tour's over I'm going to give her a show in London." " I say, Wilstrop," said his lordship, suddenly confidential, " I wish you'd do a little thing for me." 158 A RISING STAR. " Anything in my power, my lord," the mana- ger responded effusively. " I've got a trifle here," said the marquis, tak- ing out a morocco case from his pocket ; " little thing I told you about last week. She might like to have it. You can tell her it's from a friend. ' Respectful admirer/ and all that sort of thing." ''I'd rather you didn't ask me that, my lord," Wilstrop said, stiffening somewhat in his manner. His lordship, though unused to it, actually blushed. " Hang it all, Wilstrop, there's no harm in it. Upon my word, Wilstrop, there's no harm in it. Now look here, Wilstrop, I give you my sacred word of honour, as a gentleman, there isn't." A RISING STAR. 159 " My lord," returned Mr. Wilstrop, " I accept your declaration unreservedly. But I stand in loco parentis to an orphan. You would hardly ask the child's father to accept a gift of that kind in her name." "Yes, but, begad, I would though!" cried the marquis, " I am sorry I cannot be of service." '* But, hang it all, man 1 When I tell you there's no harm." " Dear boy," said Mr. Wilstrop, unbending a little, " I am a business man. Let me put it in that way. I can't afford to have the child's head turned, and least of all can I afford to turn it." *' Well, there's something in that," said the marquis reluctantly. " Have you got anything l6o A RISING STAR. here that I can wrap it up in ? I'll send it round by the boxkeeper." The manager found a sheet of foolscap, in which Limesborough clumsily wrapped up the precious little case, and having tied up his misshapen parcel, went away, nodding and winking. The manager was no sooner assured of his depar- ture than he walked to Miss Delacour's dressing- room and rapped at the door. Mrs. Jordan put out her head, and an odour of gin and cloves floated on the air. " One minute, Mr. Wilstrop," said the good lady, in her most dulcet tones. " You'll be ready in one minute, won't you, dearie ? " " You can come in now," said Esther's voice from within. The manager entered, and would have dismissed A RISING STAR. l6l Mrs. Jordan, but the sacred rites of the toilet were still in practice. " I have something to say to }'ou when I can speak alone," said the manager. " Come to my room when you are ready." "But I'm on almost directly," Esther pleaded. " There's plenty of time for what I want to say," returned Wilstrop, and so left her. She supposed, of course, that he had news of the marquis, and was on fire to know what it might be. As soon as she could escape from Mrs. Jordan's hands, she ran. "You'll have a packet in a minute or two," said Wilstrop curtly. " You'll find inside it a letter L, in diamonds. You'll send it back at once, and with it you'll send all the other things he's given you," " Oh ! " she cried, " there is no need for that." VOL. III. II l62 A RISING STAR. *' I told you at the beginning," said Wilstrop, " that you'd want a competent hand to play this game. If you'll let me play it for you, I'll play it ; and if you won't, I won't." " I shan't send back that diamond hairpin," said Esther. "You'll send back the lot," Wilstrop declared, with stern emphasis. " You're not playing for a twopenny ha'penny stake here. Do as I tell you, and you'll be grateful to me. Be a silly, greedy little donkey now, and you'll miss such a chance as almost any woman in the world would give her ears for." Esther stood for a minute or two flushing with rebellion under her stage make-up, and with tears gathering in her beautiful eyes. Mr. Wilstrop was not in the least touched by her beauty, her temper, A RISING STAR. 163 or her distress. It had been a large portion of the business of his life to deal with imperious beauty, which was pretty generally exacting, illogical, and ill-tempered ; and had Juno herself been his leading lady he would have issued his orders to her as calmly as to an earthly carpenter. "Do as you're told," he said. '' I know what's best for you." Esther was persuaded of that, but it went to her heart to give back the jewels. They seemed to have grown to be actually hers in the fortnight for which she had retained them, and she and Mrs. Jordan had made a hundred guesses at their value. But in spite of the hold the costly baubles had taken upon her she knew that Wilstrop was right, and made up her mind to follow his advice. She clicked her little teeth in a spasm of anger against 164 A RISING STAR. Lord Limesborough for submitting her to this tantalus anguish, and at the moment when she reached her dressing-room door she was encountered by the messenger who carried the marquis's ill- packed parcel in his hand. "This has been left for you, miss." " Wait there," said Esther, snatching the packet from him and dashing angrily into the room. She tore off the wrapper, opened the case, and looked at its contents with an eye of concupiscence and wrath. " Oh, dearie ! " cried Mrs. Jordan. " That is luck. You are in luck, to be sure ! But then I always said you would be, from the first." " That's from Lord Limesborough," said Esther. " How dare that man offer me anything ? " She was longing to accept it ; but it was no part A RISING STAR. 165 of her business to let Mrs. Jordan into the secret of the little drama which was just then being played. "You're not goin' to send it back again, are you, dearie ? " cried Mrs. Jordan with clasped hands. "Yes!" said Esther, "and everything else the brute has sent me ! I know for certain where the others came from now." Lord Limesborough's gifts lay in a little satchel which Esther always carried with her to and from the theatre, not caring to trust it to the keeping of any of her ever-varying landladies. The little satchel held all the duke's gifts likewise, and its contents were worth a good deal of money. Esther singled out the cases which held the marquis's gifts^ and bundling them together with the latest rejected prize, wrapped them hastily in the torn sheet of l66 A RISING STAR. foolscap, tied them with the broken string, and handed them to the messenger without. " Take them to Lord Limesborough's box, and give them into his own hands. Then come back to me." The man went away, and Esther received her call to the stage. She sailed in just in time to avoid a wait ; and almost the first object she caught sight of beyond the footlights was the ruddy, clean-shaven countenance of her admirer, frantically ready to cheer her. She saw him wave a backward hand as if waving off some intruder, and she even caught the deep bass murmur of his voice as he bade an invisible person go to the devil. Her scene was over, and she had left the stage a minute or two before the messenger returned. A RISING STAR. 1 67 " I've given the packet to his lordship, miss," said the man, rubbing the bridge of his nose with a hooked forefinger, and looking as if he had had ? a recent scare. ¥'' Well," demanded Esther, " what did he say ? " " Well, I don't know,'" the man began, and then hesitated. "You don't know!" Esther repeated scorn- fully. " Are you deaf? " " Xo," the messenger answered, " I ain't deaf, miss ; but as for what his lordship said Ñ why, you can only thank your stars alive you didn't hear him." " Tell me what he said," cried Esther, stamp- ing her little foot imperiously. " Xo, I shan't, miss," the messenger responded. " If you was a cart horse I might tr)- to whistle l68 A RISING STAR. it to you, but I wouldn't repeat his lordship's language to a lady, not to own the Mint." " Was he very angry ? " she asked. "You'd ha' thought he was, if you'd ha' seen him, miss. He reg'lar danced on them little boxes as you sent back to him, and what he said was enough to call down a judgment on the 'ouse." Esther clapped her hands and crowed with sudden triumph. She was inexperienced enough, but she knew how to value that burst of rage and violence. The Marquis of Limesborough was in earnest. To the messenger's profound amaze- ment she tipped him with a sovereign, and he went his way, knuckling his forehead as if from an abyss of thanks and wonder. For his part the Marquis of Limesborough struggled into his overcoat and strode from the A RISING STAR. 169 theatre, choking and black with rage. He had stamped the four dainty jewel cases into fragments ; and their beautiful contents, bent out of shape, were half embedded in the carpet. He left them behind, and shouldered along the corridor, down the stairs and through the lobby, like a bull mak- ing for a gate. One or two people were standing at the entrance to the house, smoking and talking, when he burst between them, shouldering them savagely to right and left. The shock was so unexpected, and he looked so mad with anger, and was so big and strong, that the men did nothing but stare after him in silence. He ploughed his way through the streets to his hotel, hustling a score of inoffensive people, and in one or two cases was pursued by execrations, which he either did not hear or disdained to notice. xArrived at his lyO A RISING STAR. own rooms, and finding his man absent, he tore off his coat, hurled it into one corner of the room, threw his hat into the firegrate, and kicked an ottoman from one side of the apartment to the other. Then he found breath and language, and gave his passion vent for full five minutes. This made him dry, and he rang for brandy and soda. When it came, he half filled the deep tumbler with neat spirit, and the waiter stared and hesi- tated before pouring in the soda water ; and his lordship, remarking this, began to rage anew. The waiter went away trembling and aghast, and reported that he had never been so miscalled since he could remember anything. Limesborough sat and drank fiercely for half an hour, vowing all the while that he would find a means to humble the girl who had so scornfully A RISING STAR. 17I received his advances. Then, finding in his own excited and bewildered thoughts no probability, or even possibility, of this, he settled into a savage quiet, filled his pipe, and sat down to smoke. In a little while his mood began to change, and though fits and spurts of violence chased across his spirit now and then, he began, in a certain angry and dogged way, to admire Esther all the more for rejecthig him. He had been chased so often and so long that he had grown weary of feminine blandishments. He had proved their utter hoUowness and insincerity a hundred times. Here, he begun to tell himself, was the first girl he had seen whom he had really cared to follow, and she would have none of him. If Esther had afforded him even the slightest encouragement she 172 A RISING STAR. would never have seemed one-thousandth part as desirable as she did now. Whilst he sat there, or, at intervals, marched angrily up and down the room, a vague suspicion of the truth more than once occurred to him. " If I let the little baggage see my hand," he said to himself, " she'll be getting some nonsense into her head about marriage. She mayn't like me, and I daresay she doesn't, but she'd like to be Duchess of Belisle one of these days." Then, at the mere fact that such a thought should have crossed his mind, he took a mo- mentary fright at himself, for it showed him, at least in part, the extent of his own infatuation. Then, in a sort of clumsy self-defence, he began to ask what there was to hinder him from doing as he pleased. He was ashamed enough of his A RISING STAR. I73 own conduct on the occasion of his last encounter with his father, but he was not on that account much less disposed to spite the duke. He would have to marr}^ one of these days, and leave a legitimate successor behind him. He was a good deal of a blackguard, but he had a sense of family pride, and was in no mind to allow the house he would one day represent to die out for want of an heir. He had put off the duty of marriage for a good many years now, and the main feature in his hesitation had been nothing more nor less than his repugnance to ally him- self with a lady. Nobody, he knew very well, however submissive, would endure his way of life without remonstrance, or tolerate the society of his intimates. Then there would be a father, or a brother, or a guardian, or some im- 174 A RISING STAR. pediment to freedom of that sort, some strait- laced person or another who would do his best to. make things uncomfortable, and to put restric- tions on his liberty. He could marry whom he pleased, and would marry whom he pleased ; but he swore bitterly that he wouldn't be fished for, and if that were Miss Delacour's game, he had beaten a hundred before her, and had no fear of her. He kept in this mind for an hour or two, and at last, a little after midnight, one of the hotel servants came to say that Mr. Ronnington Wil- strop had called, and wished particularly to see his lordship. The marquis gave orders for the manager's admission, and sat down to await him. Wilstrop came in with a face of unusual solemnity, and the marquis bade him gruffly to be seated. A RISING STAR. 175 " I've got a dreadfully awkward bit of business to transact, dear boy," Mr. Wilstrop began, " and I hope you won't be riled at what I am going to ask you." "Oh ! " said the marquis, " and what are you going to ask me? " " Well, you know," said Wilstrop, distorting his countenance painfully and feeling it carefully all over as if to ascertain that he was clean shaven, " it's a beastly awkward thing to say, but there's a chance that your lordship may cost me a very great deal of money, and may render ineffective the ex- penditure of a great deal of time and trouble." " Oh ! " said the marquis, " how's that ? " " It's in this way, dear boy," said Mr. Wilstrop, who hovered curiously between familiarity and a formal respect. " Miss Delacour's on the point of 176 A RISING STAR. signing a contract with me for a three years' engage- ment. It should have been signed to-night, and would have been if it hadn't been for something that happened at the theatre." He rose from his seat, and drawing a small parcel from his breast pocket unfolded it on the table, and displayed to Limesborough the maimed and battered jewels he had left in the box that evening. " These were brought back to Miss Delacour," said the manager, speaking with a genuine hesitation, " and she handed them over to me. She asked me to bring them to your lordship, and to deliver a message." "Spit it out," said his lordship, with a lowering eye upon him. " Nobody values more highly than myself," said Mr. Wilstrop, "the advantages of your lord- ship's friendship and patronage. But, if I lose them, A RISING STAR. 177 I lose them in a good cause. Miss Delacour's message was simply this. She has ambition, and I have taught her to believe Ñ what I know to be the truth Ñ that a very high place is waiting for her in the profession she has adopted Ñ probably the very highest. In a few years she may be the undisputed queen of the stage. Her beauty and her talents warrant me in that belief. But she has made up her mind, my lord, that she will resign her ambition and retire into private life if she cannot be free from your lordship's importunities." In answer to this his lordship entrusted 3*1 r. Wilstrop with a message for ]\Iiss Delacour, which shall not be here transcribed. The gist of it was that he saw through her little game and through Wilstrop, and that if they thought he was such an ass as that they were mightily mistaken. Having VOL. III. 12 178 A RISING STAR. delivered himself thus in his own vernacular, he invited Mr. Wilstrop's attention to the door, and asked him whether he would prefer to be kicked through it or to leave it in the more usual fashion. Mr. Wilstrop availed himself of the choice offered with a trembling alacrity, and the marquis thundered anathemas at him as he walked downstairs. " I've gone too far," said the manager, as he went homewards. " I have pushed him too hard, and I have made an ass of myself." CHAPTER XXIII. Matters stood thus at the moment at which Esther made her second appearance at the Sheri- dan Theatre in the part of the Little Widow. Mr. Bennington Wilstrop had not boasted himself in vain, and at the rehearsal which Glynne had ordered he and his ancient, Francis, exchanged glances of wonderment and approval. Miss Dela- cour was simply improved beyond knowledge. In her eight months' experience in the country she had found her stage feet. She had learned the essential secret of repose, without which no talent, without which indeed no genius, can hope to find (J^79) l80 A RISING STAR. its true value on the stage. The great art of doing nothing when nothing can be done, with advantage, is the one rare thing in all forms of art. The masterly inactivity, praised in politics by a master, is valuable in business, in love, in painting, and in letters ; but it is nowhere so essential as it is upon the stage. The amateur is known everywhere by a fussy hankering after detail. The master is everywhere notable as much for what he omits as for what he does. Miss Delacour was on the way to be a great actress, and the men of experience who watched her recognised that fact at once in spite of prejudice. The ladies were bitterly critical, but they, poor things, had their excuses. The men, who had nothing to fear from their association with an un- usually pretty and clever girl, warmed from A RISING STAR. l8l doubt to interest, and from interest to enthu- siasm. " I think she'll do," said Glynne to Wilstrop, with a purposed assumption of indifference. "Yes," Wilstrop answered, with equal dryness. " I think she'll do. You can tr>^ her for a month at the contract terms, and then we'll talk about a further arrangement." There was no special interest excited by Esther's first appearance. A paragraph or two was dropped loosely here and there in journals of no special significance or power ; but her triumph with the house was now unmistakable. Wilstrop had a word with Glynne before the piece was half over. " 1 should like to see the receipts for the last month," he said, "and the receipts for the next four weeks ; that will give us a basis to work on." l82 A RISING STAR. Glynne made no objection to this proposal, and Wilstrop had nightly access to the returns. The piece was playing, and had been playing for months past, to a nightly average of something like two hundred pounds. This yielded a mag- nificent profit to everybody concerned ; but it was open to a conceivable increase of three hundred pounds a week. Beyond that the holding capacity of the theatre could not go. But at the end of Esther's first week the sum paid at the doors and at the libraries had risen half-way from the average to the maximum. By the end of the second week the maximum was reached, and from that time business flowed unchangingly. The deadhead was rigorously excluded, and from the first row in the stalls to the hindmost bench of the gallery every seat in the theatre meant money. The amateur A RISING STAR. 183 of less than a year ago had London at her feet, and Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop's contract became a source of ver)^ considerable profit to him. He was not ungenerous to his protegee, for she was a young lady who demanded, above all things, to be kept in good temper ; and he was not the man to kill the goose that laid his golden eggs. All this time poor Jing lay between life and death, and little cared for except by her own immediate circle. Now and again a message came from the theatre, and once or twice members of the company called to make inquiries. A daily bulletin was exhibited on the wall opposite the stage door keeper's box ; but since day after day it offered the same monotonous intelligence of " No change in Miss Broom's condition," it grew gradually to be disregarded. Mark called daily at 184 A RISING STAR. the house, and grew day by day more anxious. He and the old stock actor saw a good deal of each other at that time, and walked silently about the streets together, or sat silently at the club over their whisky and water and the daily journals. Mrs. Broom, as a matter of course, made no objec- tion to Mark's visits at this time ; but the house had a darkness and a hush about it, and something very like a sentiment of despair. Nobody can say how things might have gone if Jing's innocent secret had never been entrusted to Mark's keeping. But he knew the truth now, and all his thoughts were with her day by day. The image of Esther, little by little, became obliterated in his mind, and to his own surprise the young fellow found that he could bear to think of her without pain or anger. The thought A RISING STAR. 185 of Jing inspired him with an exquisite pity, and he remembered that she had been, from the first hour of his acquaintance with her until so short a time ago, the unobtrusive good fairy of the house Ñ the quiet, gentle, loyal, all-enduring little creature. And he knew now that she loved him. Maggie's was a piteous case, Duncan was a lad o' grace. His heart grew more and more tender revolving these things ; and long before the girl grew well again Mark had made up his mind, and he suffered for her such a poignant anxiety as no mere friend or well-wisher ever endured for any one. He was leaving the house one night, and had already laid his hand upon the catch which secured the door, when a tremulous knock sounded from l86 A RISING STAR. without, and Mark, throwing the door wide open, found himself face to face with the Herr von Nadh'. " Id is you, Misder Shdanley ? " said the old musician in a whisper. " I haf galled to ask the news. Dell me vot id is. I vill not drouble them to come in." " It's about as bad as it can be," Mark answered. " The doctor says that to-night will decide every- thing. What brings you to London?" He closed the door noiselessly behind him, and came out noiselessly upon the street. " I am in London," the old gentleman responded, " for a veek or two. Chuniper is with me. Ve take a turn at the Megatherium efery night. You must come and see us. Chuniper is going to pe a creat man. He has cot all manner of dalents." A RISING STAR. 187 Mark, surveying his companion by the faint Hght of the gas lamps, thought that he was attired in unusually prosperous fashion. His own heart was sore enough, but he did not choose to wear it on his sleeve for Von Nadli's inspection. He feigned a gaiety he was far from feeling, and, arresting the old gentleman immediately beneath a lamp, turned him round with an air of burlesque admiration. "You're quite a swell. Von Nadli. What has happened to }'ou ? " " Id is all Chunipcr," said the Herr von. " He has wridden a blay in fon agt for the muzig halls Ñ vod you gall a sgedge. I bla\' the glarionet, and dalk a liddle. Chuniper dalks all the rest of the dime, and tances. He has infendit a bair of boots, lonker than he is, and the autience oggcepts l88 A RISING STAR. him mit rage. Ve are making twenty pounds a veek between us." Mark congratulated the old man heartily, and walked with him towards the scene of his nightly engagement. *' Gome in and zee us," Herr von Nadli be- sought him. "They vill be brout to give Mr. Shdanley a box if I only mention his name." Mark, in mere listlessness of heart, accepted this offer, and sat through all the buffooneries of the evening until Juniper's sketch arrived in its turn. The diminutive man made a special salute to the box in which his old friend and patron sat. Mark watched the performance and shrank out of sight, ashamed of his own saturnine face. Juniper's notions of humour and pathos were primitive ; but they suited the audience for whose benefit they A RISING STAR. l8g were exploited, and when both humour and pathos were swept off the field in favour of an amazing eccentric clog dance in the boots of which Herr von Nadli had spoken, the house went wild with joy. Mark could do no less than walk round to congratulate the dwarf upon his achieve- ment. " It's your example as has done it, Mr. Stanley," said Juniper. " If it hadn't ha' been for livin' in the same 'ouse with you so long I should never ha' thought o' turning dramatic author. When you come to think of it it's a wonder as anybody does anything else. It's so bloomin' easy when you've once got the feel of it, ain't it? I don't feel equal to a five-act drama yet, but I've got an idea for one, and if I ain't on at the Surrey in a twelvemonth it won't be my fault." igo A RISING STAR. Mark lingered until his old friends had taken the stage paint from their faces, and had exchanged the grotesque habiliments of the sketch for the everyday attire of the street. Then, at Juniper's urgent invitation, he went round to the bar, where the little man was the cynosure of all eyes, and there drank to his health and prosperity. Then, more depressed than ever, because of the pretences of the last hour, he left them, and wandered back to Keppel Street, where, by pure hazard, he found the doctor in the act of entering the house. " I shall wait," he said, " until you come down again. Let me know the worst or the best as soon as you can." The doctor promised and went quietly upstairs. Old Broom joined Mark in the parlour, and they sat expectant for five minutes, listening, as men do A RISING STAR. igi in a house of sickness, to every sound of movement in the upper chamber. The time seemed vastly longer than it really was, but at length the doctor joined them. He was grave and tranquil, and he laid a hand upon the elder man's shoulder with a firm and comforting grip. Broom looked up at him, not trusting himself to speak. " I don't want to be too hopeful," said the doctor, " but I think we have passed the crisis." There are a dozen men of eminence in the ranks of the medical profession in London who rejoice in rendering service to artists of all sorts, and who never dream of charging for their labours a tenth part of the fee they have a right to exact from the common run of patients. The Broom family had been very prosperous till Jing fell ill ; but in spite of that, and in spite of all their economies, they 192 A RISING STAR. could not have dared to call in a man so able and so costly as the doctor who attended Jing. He had come of his own accord at Glynne's instance, and the father and mother pinned their faith upon his name and reputation as if he had been a sort of minor deity. The old man began to cry at the news, and Mark was hard put to it not to follow his example. Jing's illness had lasted only six weeks so far, but he had learned much in that time, and at that moment the lesson was completely mastered ; for he knew beyond doubt that if Jing had died she would have left a far more dreadful blank in his life than Esther could ever have made there. He was not the first young man in the world to take a passing fancy for a lifelong passion, and Esther's open ingratitude and Jing's danger had oper- A RISING STAR. iQ^ ated in an inevitable direction, if with unusual swiftness. The doctor was more assured next da\', and next day still more assured. In less than a week Jing was out of danger, and in a fortnight she was downstairs again, looking very pale and fragile, but happy in the happiness of those about her. There was a quiet little fete held to celebrate her first appearance below stairs, and Mark was present at it, but everybody was careful not to excite the patient. Jing retired early, and Mrs. Broom took an op- portunity of drawing Mark aside. " You'll remember what I told you, dear," she said, with tears in her kind eyes. The professional folk who simulate emotions for the pleasure of the rest of the world are apt to show their emotions VOL. III. 13 194 A RISING STAR. amongst each other more readily than common people. Mark knew the old lady too well to doubt the sincerity of her feelings. " I remember," he said. "You don't feel hurt about it, Mark?" " No," said Mark. " I don't feel hurt about it, but I don't mean to take any notice of it. I mean to act as if I had never heard it. When Jing is strong enough to listen to me I shall have some- thing to say to her." "Mark!" cried the old woman, clasping her hands before her, " be sure of what you're doing." " I wish," Mark answered, " that I was as sure of Jing as I am of myself. I shan't be long in finding out, in any case." "But, Mark," said Mrs. Broom, "your mind A RISING STAR. I95 was set another way a little while ago. I knew it, and Jing knew it. It was there, plain for everybody to see." "Perhaps it was," ]Mark answered; "but I don't want you or Jing to think me quite as shallow-hearted and as fickle as I look." It was not loyal or like a gentleman to dispar- age the character of the girl with whom he had thought himself in love a brief half-year ago, and so he was compelled to hold his tongue. But Esther had so declared herself that there had been no doubting her. She stood proclaimed wholly heartless and selfish, a monument of greed and ingratitude. There was not a word to be said on that side ; but he contented himself by saying that he had been a fool, and that he knew now where his own happiness lay. ig6 A RISING STAR. "You'll have to deal with Jing," said Jing's mother ; " and she's not the girl who's going to let anybody marry her out of pity." " If Jing will bless and honour me by being my wife," Mark answered, " I shall be as happy as any man has a right to be. I don't want to marry her out of pity. I want to marry her because I know that I can't be happy without her." Had Mark been less in earnest the problem which his relations with Jing presented might have been difficult of solution. But when she had been freed from her bedroom for some twelve days, and when the roses were coming back to her clear cheek, Mark found her alone one afternoon. She met him as she had always done, with a welcome which looked simply friendly. She had never shown any embarrassment in his presence ; there had never A RISING STAR. I97 been any change in her colour at his coming or going, or any of the tell-tale little palpitations by which some girls innocenth- betra}- themselves in the like circumstances. She was just frankly glad to see him ; and her manner was wholly cordial, simple, and sincere, as her heart was. She accepted Mark's proffered hand, and her candid smile changed to a look of faint surprise to find that he retained hers in his grasp. She met his fixed gaze inquiringly ; and his aspect, which was sterner and more resolute than he knew, surprised her somewhat. "Jing," he said, "I have something to say to you." '* Yes," she answered doubtfully. There was assuredly nothing for which he had a right to rebuke her ; but he looked, she thought, as if he were about to scold. igS A RISING STAR. "Whilst you have been lying ill," said Mark, " I have had time to think. When we all thought we were going to lose you I can't tell you how bitter and terrible it seen:ied to me. I found that I had been mistaken in my thoughts about you for a long time past. I can't live without you, Jing ; or at any rate I can't live without you and be happy. I want to ask you to be my wife." Jing went very pale at this. Mark still held her hand Ñ he had it in both his own this time, and his ardent and glowing look bore her eyes down for a moment, but only for a moment. She looked up again bravely and answered him. '' No, Mark. You don't mean what you say." " I mean it with my whole heart and soul, Jing," he returned. " I have always loved you. You have a right to hear everything from me, and I A RISING STAR. I99 don't know whether you can believe or understand. I loved you without knowing it. It is only since you fell ill that my heart has proved itself to me. I can't be happy without you, and if you'll take me I'll do my loyal best to make you happy." " I know you always liked me, ^lark," she answered. " I was always sure of that, and always very glad of it, but you don't love me in such a way as you fancy now." " You think I cared for somebody else," said Mark. "You think I cared" Ñ he boggled over the phrase, and tried back on it Ñ "you think I cared for Esther. I thought so too, and now I know that I was wrong. It was a foolish, blind infatuation ; but it is over, done with for good and all. I never loved, and never shall love, any other woman but yourself, dear Jing." 200 A RISING STAR. She made a movement to release herself, and at this the longing of his heart overmastered him, and he drew her to his arms. " You care for me ? " he said. " You care enough not to let me go unhappy all my life ? Don't you, dear? Don't you?" And Jing, who, as her mother had said of her, was one of the last girls in the world to take pity for love, said, " Yes ". CHAPTER XXIV. His grace of Belisle, being at this time in Paris, was astonished one day to find a familiar face looking at him from the front page of an illustrated weekly journal, and to read beneath it the words, " Miss Delacour as the Little Widow ". He turned to the inner sheets of the journal, and after a brief search discovered an article devoted to a history of the lady, and a singularly warm and appreciative criticism of her talents and her personal charms. It had been the old gentleman's habit all his life- time to forget the ladies who had charmed him, and to quit their society without explanation or (201) 202 A RISING STAR. apology. He generally left some such trifle as a furnished house behind him, a fairly stocked wine cellar, a stable, and a handful or so of jewellery. His method might have been thought expensive by a poorer man, and, as a matter of fact, it cost him a few thousands a year. His grace was so wealthy that this made but little difference to him, and indeed he would have been put to the exercise of considerable ingenuity to have expended a fair half of his vast income. His personal habits were quiet and inexpensive enough ; and most of his great places in the country had been left unvisited for years, their splendid furniture swathed in brown holland, and the few servants who guarded these scenes of lonely grandeur being left to do nothing on board wages. He supposed, naturally enough, that Miss Dela- A RISING STAR. 203 cour, having returned to London, had gone back to the little house in Limesborough Gardens. Her unexpected success in the very part in which he had seen her so egregiously fail tickled his curiosity, and the weather being established and the season in full swina; he took train and boat for London, and within an hour or two after his arrival there ordered out his private hansom and drove off to pay Esther a visit. The albino page boy informed him that Miss Delacour had not returned. He was a little surprised at this; but on the following evening, having ordered a box to be reserved for him at the Sheridan, he went down to the theatre, and justified b}' personal observation the praise bestowed upon Miss Delacour by the public press. She was playing at perfect ease by this time, and the warm breath of popular applause 204 A RISING STAR. had long since thawed away from her the last faint chill of gaucherie. She trod the boards as if she had spent her life upon them, and the play went with an unflagging spirit from the first moment of her appearance on the scene. The duke took advantage of the first fall of the curtain, and presented himself behind the scenes. He had a word or two of congratulation for Glynne, and then sent in his name to Miss Delacour, who received him in the presence of her guardian dragon, Mrs. Jordan. "Your friend Wilstrop has done wonders for you, my dear," he said, with the manner of one who had parted from her the day before yesterday. " I learned of your success in Paris, and came over on purpose to see you. Very satisfactory, indeed. I am delighted. Quite delighted." A RISING STAR. 205 " I am glad of your grace's approval," said Esther, with a demure little curtsy. " I called at Limesborough Gardens yesterday," said the duke. " Why haven't you gone back again ? " '' I think," Esther answered, " that your grace should hardly ask me that. It was not kind to place me in so false a position." " My dear child," cried his grace, with a grave countenance, but a twinkle in his aged eye, " I trust I was guilty of no indiscretion." "Your grace lost me the friendship and respect of the best and oldest friend I had in the world," she answered. " I was too young and inexperi- enced to know what construction might be placed upon my being there." " I^Iy child I my child ! " cried the old nobleman, 2o6 A RISING STAR. " this is surely a reflection on our excellent Jordan here. Our good Jordan's presence in the house was a guarantee of the moral atmosphere. It is perfectly true," he added, with a bonhomie so com- plete as quite to rob his speech of any seeming of spite or anger, " it is perfectly true, my dear child, that there are many young gentlemen in London whose society would be more agreeable to a young lady than my own, and it is perfectly true that there are one or two old gentlemen who are as foolish as I am. You are quite rangee now, my dear, and I trust there is no reason why we should not be always the best of friends." " I am sure," cried Esther, " that your grace has always been most kind and generous to me. Pray don't think that I am ungrateful." A RISING STAR. 207 " Not for the world, my dear Miss Delacour," cried the duke, with a smiling flourish. " I will give no such fancy entertainment for a moment." " The world is very censorious, your grace," said Esther. She had been reading a great deal lately, and was tr}-ing her best to assume the manner of a lady. She saw too few of the species intimately to copy the style with exactness, and his grace found the assumption of the character a little droll. " A girl in my position," pursued Esther, " an actress, finds herself open to miscon- struction every day. She can hardly be too care- ful." " My dear child," returned his grace, " your sentiments do honour to your heart. Be good, my child, and let who will be otherwise. I can assure 208 A RISING STAR. you, out of long experience of life, that the path of rectitude is the only one which leads to a permanent prosperity. Follow it, I beg. Now, or in twenty years' time, you will find the pursuit of virtue a valuable adjunct to your other charms." The wicked old gentleman's manner was so delightfully smiling and friendly that the significance of his speech went for little ; and Esther was un- feignedly pleased when he shook hands with her, and told her that he should always watch her career with a friendly interest. He was turning to go, leaning a little more heavily than of old on his crutch-handled ebony stick, when the door opened by a foot or so, and a voice from without asked : Ñ " Can I come in ? " A RISING STAR. 2O9 His grace started at the voice, which sounded familiar and playful, and turning, cast one keen glance at Esther, who blushed and looked confused. Mrs. Jordan made a movement to the door ; but the duke's glance, turned on her, transfixed her mid- way. He walked erect from the room, and looking the Marquis of Limesborough full in the face with a countenance as expressionless as if he had never before beheld him, passed him without a word. His son laid a hand upon his shoulder. " I beg your pardon," he said, in a surly, hang- dog fashion. " I want a word with you, sir." The duke stood stock still under the restraining hand, but neither spoke a word nor turned his head. "The last time we met, sir," said Limesborough, " I acted like a blackguard." VOL. III. 14 210 A RISING STAR. " You have always acted like a blackguard," said his father. "I'm beastly sorry," said Limesborough clumsily. " I beg your pardon, sir, and I hope you won't think any more about it." " I have long since ceased to think about it," the duke answered. " I have done my best to reconcile myself to the fact of your existence." "Well, sir, I'm sorry," said the younger man, '' and you've got a right to be down on me. The mischief is," he added, "that we ain't built like one another." "That is the mischief," his father answered, and so walked away. The marquis stood looking after him, half angry, half ashamed, and all sulky in aspect. It was not altogether his fault if he was unable to do things A RISING STAR. 211 gracefully, and at that minute he was at least doing his honest best, and found the doing of it bitter hard. To the proud clumsy sort it is as hard to apologise as it is to accept an apology. Lord Limesborough swore a little under his breath, and then rapped at the door of Esther's dressing-room. He was bidden to enter, and obeyed the summons. " I won't have you look like that, you naughty boy," said Esther. " You have been quarrelling with your father again. I wish you were more like him." " Well, I'm d d if / do," returned the marquis. "John!" she cried, "if you use that sort of language in my presence I will not speak to you." "Well, I won't," said Limesborough. "That's 212 A RISING STAR. a bargain. If ever I swear when you are by, you pitch into me." " I won't have you swearing at all," Esther retorted. " It's a disgusting habit, and quite useless. I don't know how you ever grew to be so coarse and vulgar." " Here," said his lordship, turning on the guardian dragon, " you get out. I want to speak to Miss Delacour privately." " Stay where you are, Jordan," said Miss Dela- cour. " You can say what you like, John." " I wish I could," Limesborough answered in a hoarse whisper, bending over her. " I couldn't if I'd got a year to say it in. I should like to say a lot of things I never shall say. I'm one of the stupid lot. I don't know how to speechify. If I'd have thought about it I might have stuck A RISING STAR. 213 to my books a little bit more. But don't you pitch into me always. I can be led, but I won't be driven." "You shall be led," said Esther, "when you are good, and driven when you are naughty." She smiled point blank in his eyes ; and the infatuated marquis, regardless of the dragon's presence, seized her white hand and mauled it. It left faint traces of a compound of glycerine, zinc and lavender water on his lips, but he paid no heed to that. " By gad, Esther ! " he said, " you're the prettiest girl in England." " You don't mean to tell me," Miss Delacour answered, " that you came here expressly to say that ? " "Well no," he said, " I didn't, but I couldn't 214 A RISING STAR. help it. I think I'm crazed about you. Upon my word I do. I believe in what folks say about a man being bewitched. Look here ; I'm going to see old Wilstrop to-morrow, and buy that con- tract. I won't have my wife on the stage, and I ain't going to wait three years, nor anything like it. Nor three months, neither." " You will wait as long as you have to wait, John," said Miss Delacour ; but though the words were unpromising she gave him a smile and a blush wliich in combination were so ravishing that he kissed her hand again. The call-boy's voice was heard outside, singing out in a shrill tieble Miss Delacour's name; and the young lady, taking from Mrs. Jordan's hands a trifle of lace for her throat, a pair of gloves, and a hat which she dangled across her arm by its silk A RISING STAR. 215 ribbons, floated from the room with a backward smile at him. " I hope your lordship will excuse the liberty," said Mrs. Jordan, '' but I think your lordship ought to be a happy gentleman." " You hold }'Our jaw," retorted the marquis. " Never you mind what }'OU think. Miss Delacour ain't the sort that you've been used to." " Indeed she's not, my lord," returned the good lady, with ready acquiescence. " There's no sweeter, nor innocenter, nor better young lady in the world. But I can't help thinking, my lord, as it's a pity she's goin' to leave the profession. \^'hy, in a year or two there wouldn't be anj'body as could hold a candle to her." '* There isn't one of 'em can do that now," the 2l6 A RISING STAR. marquis answered. " She's worth the whole boiling lot of 'em." " And that pretty, too ! " cried Mrs. Jordan. "And that good and gentle with it! And that faithful to her humble friends ! " The guardian dragon had taken the measure of this young man's foot, and knew within limits how to handle him almost as well as Esther her- self. When he was grumpy and disdainful with her, as, to do him justice, he was always natively inclined to be, she began to praise Esther; and that bait for his good-will never failed. He was over head and ears in love this time, and his passion altogether broke the bands of his clumsy reticence. He talked about Esther to anybody who would listen to him. Her grace, her beauty, her goodness were so constantly his theme that he was the A RISING STAR. 217 common laughter of Fleet Street and the Strand. It was currently said that he was degenerating into a milksop. His conversation had lost all its grue- some flavour, and if he cursed at all it was by accident. He drank in strict moderation, and though he did not altogether turn his back upon his ancient cronies, he did turn it with unmistakable meaning on their lady associates. In brief, he was making an effort to become respectable ; and the role was so new, and he himself so little fitted for it by reason of long practice in a wholly different part, that for the present he seemed characterless. The cursing, roaring, drinking Lord Limesborough had been a model in his way ; but the marquis, clean lipped and sober, was a nobody. He recognised this fact sadly, and even poignantly at times, but on the whole he felt that he had 2l8 A RISING STAR. come out of Egypt and its bondage, and the fleshpots looked worthless and uninviting in re- trospect. Mr. Bonnington Wilstrop was in really mag- nificent feather, and had excellent reason, as he believed, to pride himself upon his own astuteness. The marquis was determined to cancel Miss Dela- cour's contract, and Mr. Wilstrop was determined to be paid for doing it. Limesborough was not the man to be easily defrauded even in a case like this ; but Wilstrop was able to prove, even at this early date in her career. Miss Delacour was worth a clear fifty pounds a week to him. He demon- strated to his lordship's lawyers the fact that if she were entirely in his own hands she would be worth three or four times that amount, and he held out resolutely for a three years' purchase. The marquis A RISING STAR. 2ig thought himself bitten, but after all it was not for him to deny Miss Delacour's attractiveness, and even when he paid the money he felt a pride in the magnitude of the sum. The societ}^ papers began to send forth rumours to the effect that a marriage had been arranged between an actress of exceptional talent and beauty and a nobleman of great wealth and ancient lineage; and everybody who pretended at all to a know- ledge of society read between the lines and filled in the blanks with unfailing accuracy. The Duke of Belisle remained longer in ignorance than most people, but he was fated to be enlightened by the marquis himself. He was seated in the library of his town house when Limesborough walked in upon him. The duke, having assured himself of his visitor's identity by a glance, went on reading ; 220 A RISING STAR. but Limesborough standing quite silent for a moment or two, the elder was the first to speak. He pushed on one side the reading-stand afifixed to the arm of the chair he sat in, took off the spectacles by the aid of which he had been reading, and put up his black-rimmed eyeglass. " To what am I indebted," he asked, " for the honour of this visit ? " " I'm going to do something," said Limes- borough, "which I know jolly well you won't like." '^ You need not have come here to tell me that," his father answered. " I have been assured of that at every minute of the day for years past." " You can stick it into me as hard as you like, sir," said Limesborough, "and I shan't make be- A RISING STAR. 221 lieve to think that I don't desen-e it. But I'm going to turn over a new leaf. I'm going to get married and settle down." " *To quit sack and live cleanly,'" said the duke. " And who is the happy woman who has been honoured by your choice?*' "I'm going," his son answered, "to marry the best girl in England, and the prettiest and the cleverest." "That sounds well," his father answered. "Who is she ? Do I know her ? " "She ain't one of our set," the marquis answered, with considerable embarrassment, " and I should never have got on with one of our set. I'm going to make a clean sweep of it. I'm going to settle down, and I've made up my mind to settle down and to go into Parliament. I've cut liquor," he 222 A RISING STAR. added, with a growing awkwardness. " I've been as sober as a judge these two months." " This is the return of the prodigal with a venge- ance ! " said his father. " But who is the lady who has worked this miracle? " "Well, as I said before," the marquis answered, *' she ain't one of our set." " Are you going to settle in rural felicity with a milkmaid, or have you a corner public-house in contemplation ? I don't profess to be too in- terested in your private affairs, but since you bring me this unexpected intelligence I have perhaps the right to be curious." " I'm going to marry Miss Delacour," said the marquis, who would much rather have led a forlorn hope than have held this interview at all. " You are going to marry " The eyeglass A RISING STAR. 223 fell from the old nobleman's eye and clinked against his watch-chain. His face went suddenly grey, his mouth opened a little, and so stayed. He looked for an instant like a man who had re- ceived a mortal stab. " Who is Miss Delacour ? " he made shift to ask. " You know who she is," returned the marquis. " I met you coming out of her room at the Sheri- dan." " In every act of }-our life," the duke returned, "you have been a standing insult to your name. You have been a rowdy, and a bully, and a drunkard ; a foul-mouthed and fatuous ass. But I did not think that you were fool enough and brute enough to offer such a statement to me as you have just made. I desire you to understand distinctly, sir, that I will hold no further com- 224 A RISING STAR. munication with you. You may go on your own mad and disgraceful way, but I disown you. I separate myself from your folly and your crime." " All right," said the marquis. His sanguine face was mottled, and under the mountain of insult his father heaped upon him he stood staring straight before him, with the strained and glassy look of a man in mortal pain. " I've done the square thing. I've told you what I'm going to do. And I know," he added, " that I'm going to marry the best girl in England." " You Ñ you Ñ you monumental idiot ! " burst out his father. " Your ' best girl in England ' is as artful, as selfish, as calculating and cold-hearted a little vixen as you will find the wide world over." " She's got to care about me," said the marquis. A RISING STAR. 225 " To care about you ! " cried the duke half rising to his feet, and sinking back again in blank despair. " Go, for Heaven's sake, and let me have seen the last of you. ' I pray that you may live long enough to know what a fool you are and have been." "All right," said the marquis again. " I didn't expect you to take it very easy, and you ain't any worse than I thought you'd be." " Are you so blind," the duke demanded, with a last desperate effort, " are you so blind as not to see that that worthless little wretch would pretend to love you if you were an ape, seeing what you have to offer her?" " Look here, sir," his son answered. " You've said what you liked to me, and I've took it quietly. But no man shall say things like that VOL. III. 15 226 A RISING STAR. about Miss Delacour. I wouldn't take it from any- body else, and I won't take it from you." " Go away ! " his father groaned. " Go away ! " Limesborough stood for a few irresolute seconds, and then walked to the door. He turned there, and saw that the old man had drooped forward and had hidden his grey face in both hands. Something touched him, the like of which he had never felt before Ñ a sense of filial ruth and pity. He had not been a good son, perhaps he had not had altogether a good father. He went away in silence, for it was plain even to his poor intelli- gence that further words were useless. The servants watched him as he walked down the vestibule of the great house, across the courtyard, and into the street. People on the pavement looked at him as he got into his carriage, with A RISING STAR. 227 knitted brow and writhing face. He had some ado to calm himself ; but by the time he had arrived at Miss Delacour's lodgings, whither he had instructed his coachman to drive, he was well under his own control again. " I've seen the guv'nor," he said, "and he's cut up beastly rough, as I expected. I don't care about that, for we've never been a lot to one another since I can remember. We'll have the wedding very quiet, Esther. I'm off now for the licence. Give me a kiss, my dear. I'm going to be the happiest man in England." "And I," said Esther, "am going to be the happiest girl in the world." He hugged her passionately at this, the sweetest word she had ever granted him, and ran away, fairly afraid of betraying himself. He drove off 22.8 A RISING STAR. with more repentances than he could well hold, more hope and good resolve. " That little woman," he said, with a heart swollen with love and pride and thanksgiving, " will make a man of me." "And I," said Esther, standing before a dual glass in her daintily-furnished bedroom, " and I shall be Duchess of Belisle." THE END. 