BENEATH THE WAVE DORA RUSSELL TO W. P. TILLOTSON, ESQ., OF BOLTON, THIS BOOK IS §tVmteb, AS A SLIGHT TOKEN OF ESTEEM FOR HIS ENERGY, KINDNESS, AND ABILITY, BY THE AUTHOR. CHAPTER L SANDA-BT-THB-SBA. On a wild headland of our north-eastern coast stands the village of Sanda-by-the- Sea. The village itself is rather picturesque looking, for ioghd among tie humUe cottages of the fishermen, of which it prin- cipally consists, are some old and curiously* built houses of a better class. In one of these at the time of which I am writing lived the incumbent of Sanda — ^the incumbent who, on the Sunday morning in October when this story begins, was about twelve o'clock preaching his sermon in his grey and venerable church. There he stood in the VOL. I. B 2 BENEATH THE WAVE. ancient wooden pulpit, where liad stood many incumbents before him, telUng his scanty congregation, with a certain amount of fluency and ease, about the old story of which we neyex tirq. A pleasant, rather comical face, had the Rev. Matthew Irvine — ^the Rev. Matt, as he was very commonly called, when he was not present, by his not' over respectful parishioners. But he had a pleasant face, sweet, thoughtful, and humorous, and with a sort of pathetic comi- caUty in its expression which surely never belonged to an Englishman. He was, in fact, Irish, but had lived so long in England that most of his original nationalities had passed away. But the sweet, comical smile lingered about his face still, and he had a sort of lightheartedness also which is not very usual among our grave and somewhat solemn countrymen. Yet he had had many trials, and life for him had lain along no smooth or pleasant roadway. To begin with, he was poor ; to go on with, he had a sickly wife; and to end with, he BBNftATH THE WAVE. 3 was a schoolmaster as well as a clergyman, and driving Latin and Greek into the brains of stupid or idle boys is by no means conducive to enlivening existence. " But we must take things as they come," l;ie used to say ; and so he went on, bearing Ids burdens along with him, and stopping often on his way to help a fellow-traveller who was perhaps more heavily ladeif than he was, His heaviest burden most men would have thought was his wife. She was not a lady ; she was very sickly : and he had never been in love with her. Sk marriage came about in this fashion. His first curacr was in a remote part of the country, and when he was appointed, there was not a lodging to be procured in the neighbourhood. His vicar was in despair ; but at last a grazier in the village, a well-to-do and jolly man, oflfered the young curate (as an accommodation to his jfriend the vicar) a temporary home in his house. The grazier was a widower with one daughter ; and though this young woman was 4 BFNEATH THE WAVE. by no means handsome, she had many suitors, for the grazier was supposed to be, and at that time actually was, very rich. But after the arrival of the Rev. Matthew (then a handsome young man of twenty-four), Miss Shadwell (the grazier's name was Shadwell) would never look again either at farmer, grazier, or butcher, or indeed at any of the young men of her own class of life, who had come courting her before. She fell, in fact, in love with the dark, soft-eyed young Irishman; and what chance had the poor fellow, with his generous nature and sweet disposition, to escape? She would marry him, and she did marry him ; for the Rev. Matthew felt that he could not break the poor girl's heart. She was really deeply in love with him, and when he saw that it was to be he tried his best to return her affection. Well, they married, and by and bye, as years rolled on, when perhaps the curate was naturally expecting from his supposed wealthy father-in-law some little help more than the small yearly allowance he had agreed at the BBNEATH THE WAVE. 5 time of the marriage to give them, the grazier himself fell into difficulties. This was a great blow. Mrs. Matthew was frightfully deUcate. Indeed, as she herself expressed it in her somewhat peculiar phraseology, she " was only held together by a pin." The necessary pin had, however, apparently been left out in the composition of the various little babes that she had presented to the unhappy curate, for one after another they had all died. Of the ten children that were bom to him, only one survived ; but the advent and departure of the little ones all cost money, and so the Rev. Matthew had got poorer year by year. At last he was appointed by an amiable bishop to the incumbency of Sanda, which was then worth about two hundred and fifty pounds a year. There was a large house also attached, and the good bishop suggested that as Sanda was considered healthy, a school would be likely to succeed there. Upon this hint the Rev. Matthew acted, and he had been tolerably successful in his undertaking. 6 BENEATH THE WAVE. He had indeed a fairly good school — some twenty boarders perhaps — and some day scholars. He was thus in easier circum- stances, and the sweet temper that had carried him through all his troubles was his still. Such was the Rev. Matthew Irvine, incumbent of Sanda, who, now some nine years ago, was on a certain Sunday morning in October preaching to his congregation. The congregation is easily described. In a square pew near the pulpit sat a pale, gaunt woman, who was the parson s wife. In the two next pews were the schoolboys — pale boys, rosy boys, fat boys, and thin boys, but the fat ones and the rosy ones were in the majority. Among the boys sat Philip Hayward, the tutor. He was a broad-browed young man, with a straight nose, but not handsome. He was clever. You saw that when you met the grey, thoughtful, inquiring, dissatisfied eyes. He was also unhappy, and was at that age when such men as he look for perfection that BENEATH THE WAVE. 7 ihey cannot find, and then see more imperfec- tions than really exist around them. He was looking now steadily with his grey eyes fixed on the red curtains and brass rod round Mr. Trevor's pew. Mr. Trevor waa the squire of Sanda ; the largest landowner, nay, the only landowner, for miles and nules around. He was a wealthy man also, having married for money; and in his own estima- tion, and in the estimation of the little world around him, he was a very great man indeed. So Philip Hayward sat with his eyes fixed on the red curtains of the squire's pew, but tiiough he could not see through it, we are privileged to do so, and I can promise you that the occupants of this pew were well worth looking at. First there was Mr. Trevor — Reginald Trevor, Esq., J.P. — a tall, thin, grey-haired gentlemanly-looking man, with a narrow fore- head and thin lips, and a brain of no great capacity, filled with narrow ideas and pre- judice to the very brim. Then there was 8 BENEATH THE WATE. Miss Trevor — Isabel Trevor. What was it that made you think, when you looked at her face, of all the fair and frail ones, famous in history and song, who have tempted men to destruction and shame ? Yet it was a beauti- ful face — ^almost too beautiful, with the rip- pling golden hair swept from the white brow, and the rarely regular features, and full ripe lips. Yes, she was a beauty, and she knew it, and prized it above all her other possessions. She was Mr. Trevor s only daughter, and would be very rich, but she cared or thought very little about her wealth. She thought a great deal more about the straight, regular features, and the large, restless eyes whose power she knew. She was then about twenty- two, and had had many lovers ; though pru- dent men were afraid somehow of this imperial beauty, and contented themselves with hum- bler women, who gave them more for their love than Isabel Trevor ever would have done. It was said of her sometimes that she had no heart ; but we shall know her better by and bye, and be able to judge whether the BENEATH THE WAVE. 9 soul within suited the splendid garb in which it was clothed. Seated near her^ but still at some little dis- tance, was her second, or rather third cousin, and companion, Hilda Marston. Here was a very different face — a sweet sensible, clever face, scarcely pretty and yet attractive, and with something in it that told you that the girl had thought of many things beyond the narrow circle in which she lived. She was a distant cousin of the Trevors ; but this rela- tionship was never mentioned in the house- hold, it was understood there that it was not to be mentioned ; and Miss Marston under- stood that she ought to consider herself a very fortimate young woman to be allowed to be one of the inhabitants of Sanda Hall. This is easily accounted for. She was the orphan and penniless daughter of a clergyman, and the Trevors naturally considered that they had done a very exemplary action in taking their poor relation to live with them. She was about the same age as Isabel Trevor, and very useful to her. She was indeed a clever 10 BENEATH THE WAVE. girl, and tried to do her duty fairly enough, but sometimes, no doubt, she found it a little irksome. These, then, were the three occupants of the squire s pew — ^Mr. Trevor, Miss Trevor, and Miss Marston — and by-and-bye, after the Rev. Matthew had pronounced the benediction over his scanty flock in that strangely half- pathetic, half comic voice of his, and after the commoner portion of that flock had disap- peared through the humble doorway of the church, the squire opened his pew door and walked majestically down the narrow aisle, with his head thrown high in the air. Then followed Miss Trevor, with her head thrown back proudly also, and then Miss Marston, who carried herself with a meeker carriage, remembering, perhaps, that this was the house of God. They passed into the churchyard beyond — ^the seaside churchyard. Let us pause a moment here and look at the fishermen's gravestones. Here is one — Joshua Davidson, aged forty-two, drowned on such a date ; also BENEATH THE WAVE. 11 his son^ Joshua^ drowned the same date> aged eighteen. Turn to another, James Johnston, whose fishing boat capsized on such a night, drowned with three mates, whose bodies were never recovered, and so on. All around are the records of the cruel sea. Boys, middle- aged men, and old men — all have gone down. Some, you will see, have been drowned far firom home, when some big ship disappeared with all her crew, but mostly the inhabitants of this place have perished almost within sight of it. Through these monuments by the shore, the squire passed down, with his head still thrown high in the air. It was its natural position, he thought, and he held it high to show how superior his head was to all the heads of his fellow-creatures around him. One of the schoolboys (a curly-haired, rosy- cheeked urchin) was lingering behind the rest in the churchyard to speak to the squire s family. Mr. Trevor looked at him, did not smile, but with one of his thin, well-gloved hands, gave a little pat on the boy s shoulders. "Well, Edward?" he said, and that was all. 12 BENEATH THE WAVE. The boy upon this grinned, touched his hat, and then ran up to Miss Marston. ^' How are you, Hil ? " he said, and Miss Marston stooped down and kissed his rosy cheek. He was her brother, a dependant also on Mr. Trevor s bounty, and he was one of the Rev. Matthew Irvine's scholars. " Well, my dear," said Miss Hilda, " and have you been a good boy in church ? " " Of course," replied Ned Marston, as his sister playfully and unbelievingly shook her head. By this time the party had reached the end of the narrow pathway among the graves, and had come to the gate of the churchyard. As they passed through this they overtook the grave-faced tutor, Philip Hayward, who was hngering there under the pretext of waiting for his pupil, Ned Marston. He touched his hat to the squire as he passed him, and the squire touched his hat in return. Mr. Trevor paid the tutor this compliment because he was a B. A. and a gentleman, and BENEATH THE WAVE. 13 because he had never seen anything in his conduct tliat he disapproved of. Miss Trevor, too, looked one moment at Mr. Hayward as she went by, aad a faint snule-scarcely a smile —stole over her lovely lips in token of recognition. She had hardly ever exchanged a word with him, but she had been with Miss Marston when Miss Marston had talked to the tutor about her little brother, and so she did not utterly ignore his presence. A sudden flush rose to Hayward's face as Miss Trevor thus acknowledged him, -and as he took off his hat and stood bare-headed before her, his eyes were fixed upon her face with a look of almost passionate admiration. Then, as she passed on, he gave a restless sigh and turned away — ^turned to face Miss Hilda Marston, who held out her hand to the tutor with a smile. " What a bright fine day it is, Mr. Hay- ward !" said Miss Marston courteously. "Yes," answered the tutor, but he said even that brief monosyllable absently. He was not thinking of the pleasant face before 14 BENEATH THE WAVE. him, but of the beautiful one that had passed by. Not of Hilda Marston, who was willing and anxious to be his friend ; but of a woman to whom he was nothing, nothings at least, but one of the many men who greatly admired her, and as such, perhaps, he was not quite indifferent to Miss Isabel Trevor. The tutor did not offer to accompany Miss Marston and her brother to the squire's car- riage, which was waiting a few yards off the churchyard gate on the roadway. He knew that to have done* so would have been to have forgotten his proper station in the squire's eyes ; but he stood still and watched the ladies enter the carriage, and saw the disappointed look of the boy, Ned Marston, when he drove away. Sometimes (not every Sunday, though) Mr. Trevor would ask Ned to lunch with them at the Hall. He did not do so this Sunday, however, and Ned came back to his master with a disappointed look ; for besides the lunch the squire always gave him half a crown when he went away. Thus, the half-crown and the lunch and BENEATH THE WAVE. 15 not seeing more of his sister combined, na- turally created great disappointment in Ned's youthful heart. Could we have seen straight therein, we should have seen that though the lunch was nice, and seeing his sister was nice, that the half crown was the nicest of all to Ned's unagmation. Pray, do not despise Ned. He was merely an ordinary schoolboy, and had private necessities of his own for that half-crown, in the liquidation of debts which he had incurred in the vain expectation of receiving it. He came back with rather a rueful counte- na^ce then to his tutor, and Hayward smUed grimly at the boy as he did so. " So they haven't asked you ? " he said. " No, it's a shame, isn't it ?" answered Ned. '^ And I hadn't time to say a word to Hil." Oh, Ned, Ned, have you begun so soon ? Here was a boy scarcely eleven years of age, putting his best foot forward already. " Not time to say a word to Hil," indeed 1 While all the time he was thinking of that lost half- crown. 16 BENEATH THE WAVE. The tutor, who did not know of the half- crown inducement to visit the Hall, now smiled more kindly on the boy. " Well, they'll ask you another time," he said, " and then you'll see more of your sister." And he drew the lad's arm through his as he spoke. He, too, did this for a motive ; a motive, however, unconscious to himself. This boy was the link — ^the one link — ^between him and Isabel Trevor. For this reason the tutor clung to this boy, and gave him little boats and bats, and talked to him as he talked to no other boy in the school. Thus, Hilda Marston was gratefal to the tutor for his kindness to her little brother, and anxious to be his friend. But such a friendship would never have been allowed, they both knew, by the squire, and therefore their acquaintance continued to be of a very distant description. The two — ^the tutor and Ned Marston — ^then followed the rest of theschool boys to the incumbent's house. This stood in the village, nearly surrounded by the broken-down, quaint. BENEATH THE WAVE. 1? and in many instances, squalid cottages of the fishermen. You entered it by rather an im- posing iron gateway, and in the front of the house was a large grass plot, with a sun dial in the midst. Then you came to the house. Grey and green with damp and mists were its walls, and blown and torn even in October were the creepers that the Rev. Matthew endeavoured most assiduously to train against them. It was a large, roomy, and commo- dious house, and built back ; the back win- dows looking out on the sea, and the front ones ijn the village. Scarcely a healthy place for boys, you would say ; and yet it was so, for if in the front sometimes came the smell of stale fish ajid other impurities, at the back did not the glorious sea breezes, fresh and health giving, blow with uninterrupted vigour ? Presently the effect of these breezes was shown at the dinner table. Round the Rev. Matthew's substantial board gathered the fat boys and the thin boys, the pale boys and the rosy boys. Oh 1 how they ate ! But not until the Rev. Matthew had blessed the meal. In VOL. I. 18 BENEATH THE WAVE. his quaint and pleasant way lie stood up and said a simple grace, and after this, with right good win, they all began. The Rev. Matthew also played a fair knife and fork, and ate his dinner with a grateful and contented mind. There was real piety indeed in the heart of this humble parson. He believed. He saw beyond the trials and discomforts of Hs earthly home. He saw a kingdom which would never end, and joys and glories to which he was the heir. Oh ! scorn him not^ you higher clergy, who dwell in the pleasant places of the Church and sit beneath the shadows of the grey cathedral towers. He is is the same, and if you have ten talents laid out in well-doing, he haa his five also em- ployed in his Master's service. So the Rev. Matthew enjoyed his dinner with a grateful heart, and the boys enjoyed theirs too, with no especial feeling about the matter except that roast beef and plum pud- ding are good and pleasant to the taste. Then, when the meal was over, they went bounding BENEATH THE WATE. 19 o\A of doors — ^boundin^:, running, racing:, which Sanda stands^ and down the rude road- way which leads to the long yellow sands beyond. On these sands^ this October afternoon, the sea was breaking in deep, white-crested waves -waves which came rolling slowly and ma- jestically on the shore. It was not a storm ; not one of those days when the voices of the deep bring terror to the dwellers on the land. But it waa a heavy sea, and as the boys ran on in their play the tutor walked apart, moody and restless, as the great mass of waters spread out before him. Suddenly he was startled by a cry — a cry from the boys. Ned Marston ran up to him, gesticulating and pointing to the sea. Then some of the others followed. "Look, Mr. Hayward, look there, Sir," cried Ned. " It's a corpse ! " said another. "It's a whale I " said a third. Upon this the tutor looked at the dark 20 BENEATH THE WAVE. object in the sea which had attracted tite attention of the schoolboys. This object came forward and went backward with the waves. It was receding when the tutor first saw it, and behind it and around it floated something long and dark. Hayward was keen-eyed, and he was also brave. " It's a body," he said briefly, and as he spoke he began to prepare himself to plunge into the sea. There was no great danger, though the surf was heavy and rolling, for the tutor was a practised swimmer, and in almost as short a time as it takes to tell it, Hayward had swam out into the sea, had reached the dark object floating there, had twined some of the long hair which floated round it over his strong arm, and so swam backwards to the shore, bringing the body with him. The boys ran forward to assist him to land it, to assist Tiim in laying it straight and decently on the sand, and then clustered eagerly round. It was a woman's body — a woman past her first youth, and dark and BENEATH THE WAVE. 21 foreign looking. Many days apparently had this poor corpse tossed in the restless sea. It was bruised, and the rich clothing in which it had been attired was rent and torn. But on the hands glittered and sparkled, as the water feU away from them, some valuable rings. The tutor lifted the left hand and looked at the third finger. The symbol of marriage was there. It was a wife, perhaps a mother, then, that the sea had given up from its wild keeping. CHAPTEE II. THE STORM. There was great excitement in Sanda during the afternoon after this incident. Dead bodies were not very unusual visitors to this shore, but these were mostly of rough seamen, or of hardy fishermen, whose little cots stood on the great brown cliBfe above. But this woman^s body was another thing. The squire himself came down on the sands and conde- scended to examine the cold damp hands, where gHttered and shone four costly rings beside the wedding one. The gems in these rings he pronounced to be of great value, and three of them to be of foreign workmanship. One, however, was apparently an English ring— a great, heavy, diamond hoop. B8NEATH THE WAVE. 23 "It looks like a family ring," said the squire. " Ah, poor soul, it won't matter to her now, whether it's a family ring or otherwise," said the Rev. Matthew, who also had come down upon the shore. " It may to her surviving relations, though, Mr. Irvine," said the squire, throwing his head high in the air. " I was thinMng of the poor creature her- self," answered the gentle parson, " and how now she will be far above such gauds as these." And he reverently lifted one of the cold, damp, decorated hands in his as he spoke. " It is our duty," said the squire, pompously, " to endeavour to discover who is now the legal owner of these rings." " To be sure," said the parson, " and in the meantime won't ye take charge of them yerself, Mr. Trevor? Ye see," he added, with his comical smile, " ye're the only one of us about here rich enough to trust with them." " I trust that this is not so," answered Mr. Trevor, yet more pompously. " But if you 24 BENEATH THE WAVE. think it is my duty," he added, "to take charge of these jewels as the lord of the manor, I will not shirk that duty.'' " I thought ye wouldn't, squire," said the parson (for you see he was Irish, and loved to say pleasant things) ; and the squire bowed gravely in acknowledgment of the compliment. So the squire became custodian of the dead woman's rings, and by his direction the corpse was carried up the rough road from the sands to the cliflfe, on which Sanda stands. The next day the inquest on the body was held, but nothing further was eUcited on that occasion. The tutor, Philip Hayward, gave evidence, and the schoolboys. The coroner,. in summing up, said something complimentary to Mr. Hayward for the courage he had dis- played in swimming out to recover the body. "There was no danger," interrupted the tutor, gravely. Still the coroner considered that courage had been displayed; and after the inquest was over, Mr. Trevor said pretty much the same thing. BBNEATH THE WAVE. 25 He went, indeed, up to the tutor as he was leaving the room, where the inquiry had been held, and slightly touched his arm. "Mr. Hayward," he said, as the tutor turned sharply round, "I also wish to say a few words to you about your conduct yesterday.'* The tutor was now facing the squire, and measuring him mentally, as such men as Hayward unconsciously measure their fellow- men. " I do not suppose," continued the squire, '* that as you justly stated, there was much danger to life or limb in recovering the imfortunate woman's body that we have just viewed. But I consider there was moral courage, and promptness of action ; and such qualities deserve praise. I, therefore, who am ever ready to give praise where it is deserved, wish now to express to you my sense of appreciation of your conduct, and I assure you I do so with much pleasure." All the time that this long speech was going on, the tutor was looking at the squire. The tutor, with his pale earnest face and 26 BENEATH THE WAVE. thoughtful eyes, was looking at the narrow- minded being that social position had made his superior. " I deserve no praise," he answered, quietly, after the squire had finished his speech. " I have pleasure in thinking that you do,*' said Mr. Trevor, with a "bow. " I also appre- ciate another good quality that you appear to possess, which is modesty — a quality peculiarly fitted to a young man who has his way to make in life — ^and if I can be of any future service to you, I assure you, young Sir, that I will gladly exert my influence in your behalf." " You are very good. Sir," replied Hay- ward, and the squire then bowed again, and having bowed also to the Coroner, majesti- cally left the room. Isabel Trevor had heard with almost con- temptuous indifference of the body that had been washed ashore. " It is probably some foreign sea captain's wife," she said. BENEATH THE WATE. 27 " Poor, poor woman 1" said Hilda Marston with a sigh. The two ladies were sitting in the drawing- room of Sanda Hall when this conversation took place. Sanda Hall was then, and is ^ow, a grey and ancient house, the stone of which is green, mildewed and worn ; that of the pillars of the gateway being absolutely hollowed out with the action of the sea air. It is built in two wings, with a broad front, and is in the centre of extensive grounds. The wood around it is, however, a failure; stunted and dwarfed are the trees by the piercmg wind, and uncongenial olhnate of a>o North-Eastern coast. Everything that wealth could do there was done to make it look cheerful, yet Sanda Hall was, and is, a cheer- less-looking dwelling. In the drawing-room, at the time of which I am writing, Isabel Trevor's luxurious tastes were plainly visible. Everything here was rich and briUiant-hued, and well suited the tall, golden-haired, beau- tiful woman, who had adorned it to her taste. She was standing in one of the deep windows, 28 BENEATH THE WAVE. tormenting a grey and rose-coloured parrot with a gold pen, when she made the remark about the poor woman's body recovered from the sea being a foreign sea captain's wife, and she had scarcely noticed Moss Marston's reply, so occupied was she with her present amuse, ment. She was still thus employed (the parrot bristling her feathers and screeching her disapproval) when Mr. Trevor entered the room, and approaching his daughter, said : " I have just returned from the inquest, Isabel, held on that unfortunate woman. See, these are the rings I told you of Isabel turned sharply round at these words, and flung down her pen on a table near, and stretched out her hands for the rings. ''Why, papa,'' she said, after examining them for a minute, " these are splendid rings ! I do not think," she went on, *'that these could have belonged to a common sea captain's wife." " No, impossible," said Mr. Trevor. " Look at the diamond hoop, Isabel. Are they not splendid stones V BENEATH THE WAVE. 29 " Splendid 1" echoed Isabel, almost covet- ously. " I have none such, papa." " Well, my dear, if we could only discover their rightful possessor, we might buy them, perhaps,'* said Mr. Trevor. " And there was no clue discovered to-day, then?" asked Isabel. "No one identified the body 1" " There were no witnesses but young Hay- ward, Mr. Irvine's tutor, and some of the schoolboys," answered Mr. Trevor. " But I proposed after the inquiry was over that advertisements should be inserted in the Times, and some of the local papers; and what else can be done ?" " What else, seemingly ?" said Isabel. *• But, papa," she added, after thinking a minute, " if these rings never find a proper owner, won't they become legally yours as lord of the manor ?" " I should not care to broach that claim, Isabel," answered the squire, • who was not so fond of rings aa his daughter. " Well, at all events," said Isabel (who was 30 BENEATH THE WAVE. a woman who took sudden fancies), " I think I shall wear this one for the present." And she kept turning the heavy diamond hoop, as she spoke, slowly round one of her delicate fingers. Suddenly she drew it off and examined the inside rim attentively. " Look here," she cried, " look, papa ; look. Miss Marston — there's a discovery ! What do you think is engraved here ? See, quite distinctly. * To my BelovedJ It's a romance, I declare, a complete romance !" The squire and Miss Marston examined the diamond hoop in turns. The inscription in the inner rim was quite plain — " To my Bdoved" It seemed sad to Miss Marston, who laid down the ring gravely and with a sigh. " Poor woman I" she said, " then her death has left someone's life desolate I" " Someone will console himself," replied Miss Trevor, carelessly ; and she again lifted the diamond ring and this time placed it on one of her fingers. " I shall wear Mr. Someone's ring until he BENEATH THE WAVE. 31 comes for it/* she said- And she held out her slender hand to admire it. *•' I would be afraid/* said Miss Marston, ahnost with a shudder, looking at the ring on Isabel's white finger. " Would you V ^answered Isabel Trevor, with a little laugh. She was thinking, " Poor thing, she hasn't a chance of wearing it," but she did not say this. Thus Isabel Trevor took possession of the diamond hoop and continued occasionaUy to wear it. She did this from a mere wL. But she took whims-fancied one thing pax- ticularly one week and entirely forgot it the next. At the present moment her whim was the dead woman's diamond ring. The dead woman herself was buried a few days ailer this, for obvious reasons. She was buried in the churchyard of Sanda-by-the- Sea, and the Rev. Matthew Irvine read the service over her body. She had only two mourners who followed her to the grave, and one of these was the tutor, Philip Hayward ; the other his friend 32 BENEATH THE WAVE. among the schoolboys, Ned Marston. Miss Marston was pleased when she heard that her young brother had gone, and she told him so. " Old Hayward wanted me to go," truth- fully aflfirmed Master Ned, " but it was rather a sell." So the poor bruised body lay still beneath the earth at last, after its long wanderings apparently amid the restless waves. On the following Sunday Miss Marston went up and looked at the newly-made grave ; but Miss Trevor, though she still wore the dead woman's ring, did not approach it. This was not from any feeling on the subject. The freshly cut turf, lying over the poor tenant beneath, awoke no emotions in Miss Trevor's heart; but she simply left the churchyard quickly, because it was beginning to rain, and because the weather was threatening to be yet more wet and stormy. This was not only a threat. The wind veered round to the south-east during the afternoon, and by midnight a perfect gale BENEATH THE WAVE. 33 was blowing on the coast. Long before the night set in, the fishermen had lit the beacon on the cliff, and had drawn their boats high upon the shore, and had gathered in their gear, and had placed everything, as far as they could, in safety from the expected storm. And the storm came. Such a storm as had not raged on the coast for thirty years. Isabel Trevor heard it and trembled lying in her down bed beneath the substantial roof of Sanda Hall. The squire heard it and felt uncomfortable ; and Hilda Marston heard it and turned on her pillow to pray. " Grod help the poor sailors !" she said, " God help all those at sea !" Other prayers, too, were offered in the village of Sanda that night for the poor seamen out in this awful gale. The Kev. Matthew got up and knelt reverently down. " Lord, be with Thy poor creatures exposed to this dreadful blast," he said. " God be merciful to us sinners, this night and for evermore." Under his roof, too, the tutor rose rest- VOL. I. D 34 BENEATH THE WAVE. lessly, and looked out on the blackened sky. He, too, was thinking of the men at sea- thinking vaguely and passionately of the great unsolved problems which lie between this life and the life which is to come. He had none of the Hev. Matthew's simple faith ; he had only a great heart " crying for the light/* To him had not come " the peace of beUeving " ; and yet he knew, he felt, that his soul would not die here, nor perish when the time came that his earthly form should be consigned to the dust. He stood and looked at the blackened sky and heard the raging of the waters below. He knew that, unheard and unseen, strong men would at that moment be in their death agony. Where would these poor souls go, he thought, after their brief struggle for life was over ? He did not pray for them. He stood there gloomy and irresolute, wondering if anything could be done — ^if his weak arm could save one victim from the cruel sea ? When the morning broke, the sky was one dull, uniform, leaden grey. The wind BENEATH THE WAVE. 35 was blowing a hurricane, and the rain fell in great splashing, blinding drops, and the banks and cliffs were white — white with the wild sea foam that blew inland every mo- ment in huge flakes on the flying scud. Below, near the steep cliflfe on which Sanda stands, wrecked on one of the great shelving rocks that jut out into the sea, a ship was lying with her keel uppermost. She was a foreign brig, and broke up before the day wafi over, and her crushed and rotten timbers were all that came on shore to tell the tale of her last struggles during that wild night. The storm continued the whole day, and about three o'clock even increased in intensity. By this time nearly all the inhabitants of Sanda (men and women alike) were gathered together on the high cliflfe on which it is built to watch the ships endeavouring to run for shelter to the nearest harbour. About half-past three a thin blue line of steam appeared on the horizon. This rose and fell. Then a 36 BENEATH THE WAVE. steamer, gallantly holding her own amid the mighty mass of foaming water, grew visible. Now but her funnel was seen, now her decks. The excitement on the cliflfe grew intense. The waves seemed to sweep right over her, but still she went on — on past the wild headland of Sanda — on, prayed many a woman present, safe to port. As she disappeared there rose a cry — a cry that rang through the crowd. Philip Hayward, who was among the watchers of the sea., turned round when he heard it, and as he did so found himself face to face with Isabel Trevor. There she stood, the rain beating and dashing on her golden hair and streaming down her lovely features. She was pale and excited. It was so grand, she thought, watching this death struggle with the waves. •Unconsciously, almost, the tutor drew nearer to her. Then again rang that cry — the cry from the crowd. " Another ship in sight ! Look no'ard I Another ship labouring in the sea !" BENEATH THE WAVE. 37 "She's a yacht/' said a sailor who was standing near Hayward, inspecting her through a long telescope that Tie held in his strong brown hands. " Shell never live through it/' muttered an old fisherman, shaJdng his grey head. Everyone on the cliffs now saw the yacht and her fearful danger. She was driving rapidly on — ^fleeing, as it were, before her devouring foe. Then, suddenly, when every eye was fixed upon her, she veered round. She had been running, apparently, for the nearest harbour ; now she turned and began drifting, drifting fast upon the rocks below. "What a cry there was then ! The women threw their aprons over their faces and ran backwards and forwards, screaming and gesticulating, while the men stood silent and pale. " They've lost power over her," presently said the sailor with the telescope, to Hayward. " Her time's come," said the old fisherman. *' Gk)d be merciful to the poor souls on board !" 38 BENEATH THE WAVE. The yacht was now rapidly approaching the cliflfe. But before she struck, before the fatal, grinding, crushing blow could come, a great sea lapped over her, and then another. But she rose from the mass of waters, though an appalling shriek from the crowd told that all believed her fate was certain. Then a third sea struck her, and this time she went down to rise no more. She disappeared so suddenly that she might have been a phantom ship. Hayward rubbed his eyes. She had been there a moment ago, now she was not there. It was like a dream. Isabel Trevor gave a cry, and the crowd swayed backwards and forwards, and pressed nearer to the edge of the cliflfe. Every eye was fixed upon the sea ; the sea had just swallowed up the ship and her living crew. CHAPTEE III. SIR GEORGE HAMILTON. As the crowd swayed backwards and forwards, after the ya^ht sank, PhiUp Hay ward found himself pressed nearer to Isabel Trevor and her companion, Hilda Marston. Hilda Mar- fiton WM crying, and praying silently for those who, even at that moment, must be struggling in their death agony; and Isabel Trevor, with parted lips and wide-open eyes, was gazing intently upon the sea. It was a moment of extreme excitement. The yacht had gone down so near the land that a good swimmer could easily, in an ordinary sea, have swum to shore. But in this raging, boiling mass of waters, there seemed no hope. No hope ! And yet with 40 BENEATH THE WAVE. a cry — a shout rather — ^that rose above the storm, men began to call out that now^ihey saw a man — a living man — ^wrestling with the waves ! For a moment he was visible — and then — God ! he disappeared. The next moment the head rose once more, and a white, despairing face looked upwards. Isabel Trevor saw that look, and a sudden passion of excitement seemed to seize her. " Can nothing be done ? " she cried, loudly and wildly. " Are you men ? " she went on, running forward to a group of fishermen who, in their oilskin coats and caps, were standing near. "Will you let a human creature perish before you ? Will none of you risk your lives to save him ? " And she pointed eagerly, as she said these last words, to the sea ; and as she did so, her eyes met Philip Hayward's. "I will, lady," he said, and he stepped forward, pale and daring. "You are a brave man," she answered quickly. BENEATH THE WAVE. 41 "You are a madman," said one of the fishermen, roughly. " No soul could live in a sea like yon." " I will try," said Hayward firmly, and as he spoke he flung off his coat and boots, and then with one look into Isabel's face — a look of farewell — ^he began hastily to descend the wet and slippery pathway down the cliffs that led towards the sea. "Thou'st sent him to his death," said the same fisherman who had spoken before, glancing at Isabel. But she made no answer, she was watching the tutor's descent ; watching him struggling down the dangerous, narrow way ; watching him, when he reached the great brown rocks below, stand one moment still on one of them, and then, seizing his opportunity, plunge the next boldly into the sea. As he did so, Hilda Marston gave a cry — a cry echoed by many of the women present. " He will be drowned," said Hilda, with a sort of moan, and she put her handkerchief over her face to shut out the scene. 42 BENEATH THE WAVE, " If he is," answered Isabel, " he will die like a brave man, and not like a coward," and she looked tauntingly at the group of fisher- men, who moved with a sort of uneasy con- sciousness beneath her contemptuous glance. " Let's gan down wi' ropes ; maybe we can chance to help him," murmured one. " He's a brave lad," said another. " He'll never see the shore again," muttered a third. In the meantime Hayward was resolutely swimming onward, and a sort of momentary lull came over the mighty waves as he did so. He knew he had gone forth to almost certain death, but she would see him die. " She will see me die — she will know how I loved her then," he thought. This, at least, was the impulse that had sent him into the boiling surf. But though it seemed a sort of forlorn hope, he did not forget that each stroke of his vigorous arm brought him nearer to the man struggling in the sea. There he was. Hayward saw the dark head amid the blinding spray ; amid the huge BENEATH THE WAVE. 43 waves that swept over them, that parted them one moment with a great yawning gulf, that flung them the next close to each other's arms. At last Hayward made a dash forward, and caught the man's hand. " There I rest it on my shoulder," he said. ^' Don't put your arms round my neck. Lean your hand on my shoulder, and I will try to save you." " I am done," said the man, choking and gasping. Then came another lull in the waves. "Take time to breathe," said Hayward, himself drawing a long breath. ^^ Hold on fast, and we may yet get safe to shore." The man whom he addressed was almost exhausted. But he was bold and brave, and he saw that his one chance of life lay in obeying Hayward's directions. He there- fore rested his axm on Hayward, drew his breath, and then together they turned towards the shore. The sea swept them on— swept them oil 44 BENEATH THE WAVE. in the great waves in which they were power- less, and was going to sweep them, Hayward saw, against the huge, jagged rocks that were standing out hard and cold to give them a pruel welcome. When he saw this, he made an effort. "This poor soul may wish to Jive," he thought, glancing at the white set face so near his own, and he put out his arm in the hope of shielding his companion. He heard a cheer as he did so — a cheer that seemed quite near to him somehow — and then came a shock, a frightful sense of pain, and a rush and din of waters in his ears. After this he could recall nothing more. His head, in fact, had struck on the rocks as well as his arm. But, before the fierce waves could carry back their prey, one of the fishermen, who had gone down the chffs in the hope of helping him, and who was stand- ing watching with a rope round his waist, darted forward and caught Hayward by the arm. There was a brief struggle, but the hardy fisherman was used to the bUnding spray, and Hayward (with the man he had BENEATH THE WAVE. 45 saved cUnging to him with the grim clutch of despair) the next moment was drawn aUve upon the rocks. What a cheer was given then — a cheer from the cliffs ! Men ran down the slippery- path at the risk of their lives, and one woman went also. This was Isabel Trevor. There she stood, pale, determined, and beautiful, looking at the tutor's death-like face, who was now lying stretched out on the rocks insensible. Crouching near him on his knees, . and leaning against some of the fishermen, as if he were quite exhausted, was the man he had saved. But Isabel never looked at him. She was examining Hayward atten- tively, and presently she stooped down, and laid her hand over his heart. " Is he much hurt ? " she said ; and the fisherman who had caught him by the arm as he was being swept back into the sea, and who was the same man who had spoken to Isabel on the cliffs, now answered her roughly enough. *' Ay, it's as I told thee," he said, looking 46 BENEATH THE WAVE. at Isabel with his bronzed handsome face ; " thou's sent him to his death." " Where is he injured ? " she asked coldly, lifting herself up. ** On the head/' said the fisherman, " and his arm's smashed.'* As he spoke he lifted up one of Hay ward's powerless hands. As he did so, Isabel bent down again and took the tutor's cold hand. *'Mr. Hayward," she said, "Mr. Hay ward! " And somehow to his dulled senses her siren voice crept, for he opened his eyes and looked at her ; looked at her like the dumb beasts look when in deadly pain. "Are you better?" said Isabel, and she took a flask containing spirit from the fisher- man's hand and held it to Hayward's lips, and as she did so a sort of life seemed to creep into his veins. "I — I — thank you," he murmured, and then hi, eyes closed agk " Have him carried up the cliff at once," said Isabel, looking round with her imperious air. " Where is the doctor ? Why is he not BENEATH THE WAVE. 47 here ? Let him have everything he requires* I am Miss Trevor, of the Hall." She need not have made this announce- ment. They all knew her, these rough, bronzed men ; knew by reputation and name the haughty beauty who never went near their squaUd homes ; who Uved as far apart from them as if she were in another world. But she was the squire's daughter, and as such must be obeyed : and so, as she turned away ^th her pLd air, the fahennen, in ihl careless, slouching manner, prepared to carry Hayward up the cliff. As they were lifting him in their arms, Isabel Trevor for the first time looked at the man the tutor had saved. He was still in a state of extreme exhaustion, and was eagerly drink- ing some spirit that a fisherman was giving him. Isabel's eyes fell on his hands as he did so; on the white nervous hands, on the carefully kept nails, on the ring on the fourth finger, on wLh ^oM beari^s were deeply cut. They were the hands of a gentleman, and from the hands Isabel's eyes travelled to 48 BENEATH THE WAVE. the face. A pale face, with handsome features and black brows, and with a heavy moustache shading the strong, resolute mouth and jaws. "Are you much hurt ?" said Isabel, address ing him. Then the man looked up, and when he saw her, with the instincts of a gentleman, he tried to rise. " I am completely exhausted," he said in a faint voice. " Am I the only one saved ? " he asked the next moment. " Ay, master," answered the fisherman who was giving him the spirit, " and if it hadn't been for yon tutor lad at the schule, that they're carrying up the cliff there, thou would have gone with the rest." " What was the name of your shi{) ? They were saying it was a yacht ? " went on Isabel. " Yes, the yacht Endymion," answered the rescued man. " I was her owner — she was a good little ship, but no yacht could live in such a gale." "There's not been the like these thirty years," said the fisherman shaking his head. BENEATH THE WAVE. 49 " What is your name ? " continued Isabel, ** You had better be taken at once to the HaU — ^to my father's house, Sanda Hall." ''I thank you/' said the gentleman, "and I shall indeed be grateful for some friendly shelter. My name is Hamilton," he added, " Sir George Hamilton ; and will you tell me the name of the brave young man who saved my life?" "He is Mr. Hay ward, the tutor at the school here," answered Isabel. And then with the innate coquetry of her nature she went on, " I saw you — I entreated Mr. Hay- ward to save you." " I thank you," said Sir George Hamilton again, and this time he looked at Isabel's beautiful face. Shall I describe her as she appeared to him then, standing on the brown, bare rocks, with the storm raging around her, and the spray and rain beating on her golden hair ? She was not pale now, but fair and blooming. Her large, restless, strangely-tinted eyes, with the dark eyelashes and brows, were smiling and VOL. I. E 50 BENEATH THE WAVE. soft. The excitement was over. She never thought of the men who had just died. She was thinking how one had gone out and risked his life at her bidding, and here was another man who, perhaps, would become a victim to her beauty, too. This was what Isabel Trevor liked. She felt herself a kind of heroine because she had run down the dangerous, slippery pathway from the cliff ; because she had sent Hayward out on his almost fatal errand ; because she was standing there in the wind and the rain, where no other woman had ventured to go. "And you came here," said Sir George, looking round at the bleak spot on which they were standing, " to try to help some of my poor crew ? " "I came because I could not bear to do nothing," answered Isabel. " It was dreadful only to watch. But," she added, '4et the men assist you up the cliff, and then in a few minutes you will be at Sanda Hall." The shipwrecked man was only too glad to avail himself of her offer. He was '' almost ft it' BENEATH THE WAVE. 51 done/' as he himself expressed it, and with diflSculty was dragged up the steep cliff by the fishermen, followed by Isabel Trevor. When they nearly reached the top, Isabel saw her father standing there watching her, looking pale and agitated, and he came hastily forward. " Isabel," he said, " what on earth induced you to risk your life as you have done ? '* I could not keep still,'* she answered. Papa," she added, pointing to the exhausted stranger who was supported by the fishermen, " this is Sir George Hamilton, the owner of the yacht that has gone down — the gentleman Mr. Hayward has saved, and I have asked him to go to the Hall." ** Certainly," said the squire, courteously. "I congratulate you, sir, on your happy escape." And Mr. Trevor held out his hand to Sir George Hamilton. But by this time Sir George was nearly in a fainting condition. He was frightfiilly pale, and unable to walk, and Mr. Trevor, s86kig this, at once despatched a man standing%|^^'6 52 BENEATH THE WAVE. the Hall for a carriage, and Sir George was placed in it, while the squire and Isabel stood by his side. The women present now divided their tearful sympathy between the rescued man and the tutor who had rescued him. Hay- ward at this time was being carried to the parsonage, and Isabel heard all around com- ments on his conduct. " Ay, it's cost him his life," one fine young woman, with a red handkerchief tied round her comely face, was saying. " He had a sad look, like those who gan young," answered a weather-beaten matron. " Is young Hayward killed ? " asked the squire, who also overheard their remarks. "They say he's nigh to death, squire," answered the comely young woman with a sigh. *^ Indeed ! I regret to hear it," said Mr. Trevor. " It is an exaggeration, papa," said Isabel. " He spoke to me when he was lying on the rocks." BENEATH THE WAVE. 53 But now let us leave the group who were waiting for the squire's carriage and follow those who were carrying Hayward to the parsonage. Amongst these was the parson. He had not been on the cliffs when the tutor had volunteered to endeavour to save the man struggling in the sea, nor yet when Hayward had succeeded in bringing the one survivor of the crew of the yacht to the shore. But he had arrived there just when the fishermen bore the tutor (who was then again apparently insensible) from the rocks below. The Rev. Matthew's grief and consternation at the sight were naturally extreme. " My dear lad, what has happened ? " he cried, in dismay, as his eyes fell on the tutor's pale face and out-stretched form, as the fishermen laid him for a moment on the grass. " Oh, Hayward, my dear ! " And the parson knelt down and took one of the tutor's cold hands in his, and began tenderly chafing it. Then a dozen voices told what had hap- pened, and the Rev. Matthew's kindly heart 54 BENEATH THE WAVE. was yet more moved when he heard the tale. '* He should not have done it/' he said. " My boy, my brave boy, look at your old friend I Don't you know me, Hay ward ? '* But no words came from the tutor's white lips. He lay there still and motionless, breathing somewhat heavily, and the Rev. Matthew grew even more alarmed as he watched him. " He's hurt on the head," said one of the fishermen. " God grant his brain is not injured," an- swered the Kev. Matthew, uneasily. " Bun, my man," he went on to one of the men standing near, " for the doctor, and bring a door from Jimmy Watson's, the joiner's. He must be carried carefully home." In a few minutes the parson's directions were both complied with. The doctor, a tall, gaunt Scotchman, arrived on the clifl&, and Jiaving felt Hayward's pulse, pronounced that he must be taken home before anything could be done. The tutor, accordingly, was lifted BENEATH THE WAVE. 55 on to the door procured from the village joiner's, and then carefully carried to the parsonage, the Rev. Matthew walking by his side as they went along. As the procession entered the paiisonage gateway and crossed the rain-soaked grass- plot in front of the house, Mrs. Irvine was standing at the door looking eagerly out. She had heard the report of the tutor's injuries, and stood there facing the raging tempest in her anxiety on his behalf. What a gaunt figure she was 1 So white, so thin, even so ghastly, with her large features, sunken black eyes, and white, half-open mouth, which habitually showed her upper teeth. She might have been an animated corpse, so deathly did she look, and even her voice was shrill and unearthly. " Is he dead, Matthew ?" she cried, as soon as she caught sight of the tutor's pale face. " He is dead ! " shrieked a voice behind her, and a plimip little figure fell suddenly backwards. This was Amelia Irvine, the only surviv- 56 BENEATH THE WAVli. ing child of the Rev. Matthew and his wife. She was a stout, rosy girl, with thick waist, and thick wrists and ankles, and a face that could not perhaps have been called absolutely plain. She had been standing behind her mother, watching for the tutor's arrival, and when she saw his prostrate figure carried by the fishermen on the door, and his white un- covered face, she cried, " He is dead ! '* and fell at once without warning back into the arms of little Ned Marston, who was stand- ing there also. " Don't, Miss Melia ! " exclaimed Ned, as the unexpected dead weight fell upon him. " I can't hold you — I can't indeed." " He is dead ! " again cried Miss Amelia, stiffening her ankles rigidly. " Please sit on the umbrella stand," pleaded Ned, '^ for I can't hold you — I can't indeed." And suiting his action to his words, he allowed Miss Amelia to fall heavily on the hall oil-cloth. " Cruel," naurmured Miss Amelia, closing her eyes and becoming more rigid still. BENEATH THE WAVE. 57 "Don't make a fool of yourself, Amelia- Shadwell," said Mrs. Irvine, looking round,, as the sound of her daughter's sudden descent, reached her ear. " If Hayward's gone, you can't bring him back by fainting and that kind of nonsense, and if he isn't you had best get up and try to do something to help him." *^0h ! "groaned Amelia ShadTrell from the oil-cloth. But here it ought to be men- tioned that Shadwell was Mrs. Irvine's maiden name, and she had insisted that each of her children should successively bear it. All the little Thomas Shadwells, and Mat-^ thew Shadwells and Jane Shadwelk, and various other little Shadwells, were " gone," as Mrs. Irvine expressed it ; but Amelia Shadwell remained, and her mother almost invariably, in addressing her, gave her her full baptismal name. " Get up. Miss Amelia, please do," whis- pered little Ned Marston, who felt rather contrite for having let her go so suddenly down. " You'll get all wet if you don't when the men come in. He's not dead, I dare 58 BENEATH THE WAVE. say," he continued, soothingly, "and if you can't get up, let me roll you to one side." And accordingly Master Ned rolled Amelia into a convenient comer near the umbrella- stand, while her father and the fishermen carried the tutor into the hall. CHAPTER IV. SIB GEOBaE's OFFER. When Hayward's injuries were examined, he was found to have severely fractured his right arm and his wrist. The most serious injury, however, which he had sustained was on his head. His forehead had apparently struck on the rocks, and for two days after- wards he lay in a state of semi-insensibility. During these days a message of inquiry came morning and evening from the Hall. " Sir George Hamilton and Mr. Trevor wish to know how Mr. Hayward is," regularly asked the Hall footman, when he rang at the parsonage bell. The dwellers in the cottages near, among which the footman had to pass before he 60 BENEATH THE WAVE, reached the parsonage, regarded these visits with sympathy; with sympathy for the young man who wa« lying iU in their midst, and also for the stranger who had come so perilously amongst them. Some interest was excited also, when a gentlemanly, pleasant looking man of about forty, arrived at the village in a cab, two days after the wreck of the yacht, and stopped at the public-house to ask the nearest way to Sanda Hall, where Sir George Hamilton was at present staying. After the gentleman had received the proper directions, and had driven to the Hall, the driver and the cab returned to the public-house. Then it came out that this visitor was Mr. Hanna- way, , a lawyer, and Sir George Hamilton's man of business. Sir George being a very rich man, the cabman had been informed. Still, though these things interested the fishing population of Sanda, they did not create in them the intense curiosity and love of gossip which they would almost certainly have done in a country village. Whether the solemn dirges that are for ever sounding in BENEATH THE WAVE. 61 their ears, that break over so many unseen grav. of Mends and iindred, affL them with a sort of solemnity, there is no doubt that, after the heyday of youth is past, these people are, as a class, of a grave and quiet deportment, the women as a rule being hard- working, sober, and virtuous. When, therefore, on the day after his arrival at Sanda Hall, Sir George Hamilton's man of business was seen wending his way past the dilapidated cottages of the fishermen in search of the parsonage, there was no unseemly staring at the stranger. The women, as usual, were to be seen standing at their door-ways knitting, dressed in their short blue bedgowns pinned back, and their short blue flannel petticoats, fully dis- playing the blue woollen stockings beneath, and the low leather shoes. They glanced up as Mr. Hannaway passed. '' He'll be the gentleman from the Hall," said one woman. *' Ay," answered another grave matron, and that waa all. 62 BENEATH THE WAVE. " The lad yonder, they say, is better, then ?" said the first woman who had spoken, with a nod of her head to indicate the parsonage. '* The Lord has been merciful to him,'" replied the second woman ; and they both Jnt on industriously with the blue, half- finished woollen stockings in their hands. In the meanwhile, Mr. Hannawav had reached the parsonage, and had been ushered into the parson's study. This was the smallest room in the house. A little back sitting-room, dark and shabby, in which the Rev. Matthew wrote his sermons, smoked his pipe, and spent his serenest hours of peace. He was not there, however, when the prosperous man of business was ushered into it, and the prosperous man of business looked round with amused dismay at the signs of poverty it contained. Worn was the carpet, worn the black hair-seating of the chairs, and most worn of all the comfortable arm-chair in which the Rev. Matthew spent so many hours. BENEATH THE WAVE. 63 Mr. Hannaway had not been used to this, kind of thing. "The poor man must be starving," he thought, and he was, therefore, quite astonished when the genial, pleasant- faced parson entered the shabby^ Uttle room. He (the Rev. Matthew) held Mr. Hanna- way's caxd in his hand. " Mr. Hannaway V he said, and Mr. Hannaway smiled and bowed, and then the two shook hands. I have called," began Mr. Hannaway, at the request of Sir George Hamilton. He wishes me to express to the young gentleman who saved his life, and who I understand is in your estabUshment, his deep sense of gratitude, and also to make inquiries about his state of health, and will be glad to know if any further medical advice is advisable." "Then, I'm thankful to tell ye I don't think it is," answered the Rev. Matthew in his sweet-toned, half-pathetic voice. "My friend. Dr. MacRay, here, told me this morning that he hopes that the dear lad will u 64 BENEATH THE WAVE. HOW pull through ; and I feel a happy man, I can tell ye, for the news." "I am, indeed, pleased to hear it," said Mr. Hannaway. " His condition has excited ike greatest anxiety in the mind of Sir ^George Hamilton, who is in a state of great anental depression, also, at the loss of the whole of his poor crew." " It was, indeed, terrible," said the Rev. Matthew, with a feeling sigh. " It was a fine yacht, the Endymion," went on Mr. Hannaway. " Altogether it has been a sad business, and Sir George seems to have taken it completely to heart." '^ No wonder, no wonder," said the Rev. Matthew. " Sir George further instructed me to say," continued Mr. Hannaway, **that anything that he can do to promote this young man's future — I mean the young gentleman who saved Sir George's life — ^he will most gladly do. Sir George, you know," added Mr. Hannaway with a smile, " is a rich man, and can aflford to be a generous one." BENEATH THE WAVE. 65 " I shall tell the dear lad," answered the Rev. Matthew, *' And this, I may tell ye, Mr. Hannaway," he went on, ** a finer, braver young fellow there does not breathe. He's a gentleman by birth, too," he continued, " for his father was an officer in the 84th — ^a lieu- tenant — and married when out in India the governess of his colonel, and then died, poor fellow, of sunstroke, a year after. He has a sorrowful history, you see. A widowed mother, with her scanty pension barely suffi- cient to keep in life, and this one son. Well, he has an uncle — some sort of a merchant in London, I believe — and this Mr. Moxam educated young Hayward, and sent him to the University of Durham, under the idea that he might go into the Church. But the mother fell ill, and what could the poor lad do ? He left college, and accepted a tutor- ship, so that he might help her, which he does — sending her indeed almost all his scanty earnings." " It is highly commendable," said Mr. Hannaway. VOL. I. F 66 BENEATH THE WAVE. "Yes, but the young fellow frets. I'm such a poor man myself that I can do nothing for him, though I love him as a son, but I know he is dissatisfied with his position in life, and pines for different work. Therefore, you see, if Sir George Hamilton would push him on " " I am sure he will," replied Mr. Hanna- way, as the Rev. Matthew made an expres- sive pause. " Sir George will see him him- self when he is better, but of this I am certain, that any profession is now open to him." " Is Sir George a young man ? " asked the parson. ^^ It depends upon what you call a young man," answered Mr. Hannaway, with a smile. " I call him a young man, because he is two years younger than I am. He is thirty-eight, in fact." "And is he married?" went on the Rev. Matthew. At this question a fain t colour passed over Mr. Hannaway 's good-looking, pleasant face. u BENEATH THE WAVE. 67 " I — ^beKeve not," he said, with some hesi- tation. " Well, he had a near escape froin death," said the Rev. Matthew, quickly, who now saw that he had asked an unfortunate question. '' Yes, indeed," answered Mr. Hannaway, rising, " and he fully appreciates the courage of Mr. Hayward, isn't it ? " Yes, Hayward. Philip Hayward." Tell Mr. Philip Hayward, then, that Sir George will call upon him before he leaves this part of the country ; and in the mean- while assure him that whatever profession he fixes upon he may depend on Sir George's influence and purse." And Mr. Hannaway, having given this assurance, shook the Rev. Matthew's hand, and then courteously took his leave. After he had gone, the Rev. Matthew pro- ceeded to the tutor's sick room. There he found his wife and his daughter Amelia. AmeUa had spent the last two days in crying and in making beef tea ; but now, as the tutor was supposed to be better, she had dried hei* 68 BENEATH THE WAVE. eyes, and was making beef tea more ener- getically than ever. "Pa/' she said, turning round her rosy, fat, common-place face, as the Rev. Mat- thew entered the room, "he has t^ken a. cupfiil" (this was of beef tea). "Isn't that nice ? I made it myself, and I know it's good." "Yes, my dear," answered the Rev. Mat- thew, glancing at the tutor's pale face lying on the pillow; "but you must not forget that he is to be kept perfectly quiet." " Oh ! I won't forget," said Amelia, gush- ingly ; " but though he is to be kept quiet, he's to be kept up, too, and beef tea's the thing to keep him up, isn't it, mamma ? " " Amelia Shadwell, don't let your spirits run away with you," repUed Mrs. Irvine in a ghostly voice. "You are always up or down, isn't she, Hayward ? " At this appeal a faint smUe passed over the tutor's face. " I have had a gentleman inquiring after you, Hayward," said the Rev. Matthew. BENEATH THE WAVE. 69 " Who was it ? " asked Mrs. Irvine in her hollow tone. " I think he must be Sir George Hamil- ton's agent or lawyer," answered the Rev, Matthew. "This is his card." And he placed Mr. Hannaway's card in the long thin hands of his gaunt partner. " And what did he say ? " she asked, after she had examined it. " Oh ! well " hesitated the Eev. Mat- ihew, '^Hayward ought to hear that first. He spoke very generously — ^he made a sort of proposal." '* Matthew," said Mrs. Irvine, " if he said anything particular, tell it now. You will tell it afterwards, you know that, for you can keep nothing.*' "WeU, my dear, Hayward will teU you himself by and bye," said the Rev. Matthew, meekly. '* Amelia Shadwell," said Mrs. Irvine, rising from her chair, and addressing her daughter, "come away at once. Your pa wants us out of the room, I see that. Hay- 70 BENEATH THE WAVE. ward wants us out of the room, I see that also ; and I mean, therefore, to go out of the room, and you must come, too/' "Another brewing will be ready in a quarter of an hour, Mr. Hayward," said Amelia Shadwell, glancing tenderly to the bed, and alluding to her beef tea, " and in a ' quarter of an hour I will bring you a fresh cupful." And then with another tender glance she followed her mother from the room. When his wife and daughter were gone, the Rev. Matthew proceeded to deliver Mr. Hannaway's message to the tutor, and as he did so a flush came over the pale face on the pillow, and a new light into the dulled eyes. " He said this," said Hayward, as the Rev. Matthew paused. " He said " " That any profession is now open to you, my dear lad," answered the kind parson, taking the tutor's hand. "This offer may part us; but though I grieve for this, I rejoice at the same time at your good for- tune." BENEATH THE WAVE. 71 As the Rev. Matthew said this, the flush deepened on Hayward's face. Of what was he thinking ? Ab wild and foolish a thought as ever crossed a young man's brain. He was thinking, " I may rise now — I may win Isabel now " — Isabel, who thought as little of him as she did of the countless grains of sea sand lying on the shore t :! CHAPTER V. AT SANDA HALL. The same day that Mr. Hannaway called the parsonage, Sir George Hamilton for t first time appeared among the family Sanda Hall. His host had visited him his bedroom, and the village doctor h visited him ; and after Mr. Hannaway h arrived, that gentleman had naturally spe most of his time with his patron. But t ladies had never seen the guest who h come so strangely into the household sir the day of the storm, when he had been once assisted from the carriage to his room But though they had not seen him, th had frequently talked of him, and Isal Trevor had not scrupled to make inquir BENEATH THE WAVE. 73 about his private history from his man of business. Mr. Hannaway, however, gave only very guarded replies. "Is he .married?" asked Miss Trevor,* carelessly. " No," answered Mr. Hannaway, gravely. " How strange ! " said Miss Trevor. " A man of his age, too. Is there any romance in the case?" "Most men have their romances, you know. Miss Trevor," replied Mr. Hannaway, smiling. " What is Sir George's, then ? " asked Miss Trevor. The lawyer shook his head. "How can I tell you?" he answered. *' If Sir George has one, he is not a man to confide it to his lawyer ; and I do not even know that he has one." "I shall have to ask him," said Miss Trevor, throwing back her beautiful head. "And who could refuse to tell Miss Trevor anything she asked?" said Mr, Hannaway, bowing; and so the conver- 74 BENEATH THE WAVE. sation about Sir George's romance ended for the present. But Isabel felt curious about their guest, and grew impatient of the days that he spent in seclusion. Her father had pro- nounced him to be a handsome and gentle- manly man, and she herself had admired him during their brief interview. ^^How tiresome it is/' Isabel thought, " of him to stay in his own room I I hate tiresome people." But she did not tell him this when he appeared downstairs. She was standing in the drawing-room when he entered it, en- gaged in what was a favourite occupation • of hers^ — ^the arranging of flowers. That is, she took a fancy for doing this occasionally, as she took fancies for other things. When she took a fancy, she was wrapped up in it for a Uttle while, and then another fancy succeeded. This day she was quite immersed in her flowers. She lifted them up, held ihem together to judge of their eflfect, and then put them down again. She had a great BENEATH THE WAVE. 75 bunch of gorgeou&ly-tinted camelias in her hand as Sir George came into the drawing- room^ and though she heard him enter, and guessed who it was, she did not turn her head, but bent down over the flowers. She made a splendid picture. A woman about whose beauty there could be no doubt; a woman with a tall, shapely form, dressed with rare taste, and with a sort of strange grace in every attitude of her supple figure. She waited imtil Sir George was close to her, and then looked quickly round, with a smile that was intended to win his admira- tion. But the man who approached her was in no mood to give it. He looked gloomy, almost sullen ; and as he placed his hand in the one she held towards him, he did not even return her snule. " I have come to thank you. Miss Trevor," he said, with grave courtesy, '^ for your great kindness to mef." "What kindness?" asked Isabel, with another bright smile. 76 BENEATH THE WAVE. " Need I answer that question ? " said Sir George, fixing his eyes on her face. He was thinking how wonderfully beau- tiful she was. He had only a vague recol- lection of her appearance as she stood on the bare brown rocks, just after he had been rescued from the sea by Hayi^ard on the day of the storm, and he had scarcely ever thought of her since. But just now he was in a bitter mood. ^* She is beauti- ful," he was reflecting, ''but what does it matter ? She will only bring greater misery into the world than most of her accursed sex." ''Do you mean by my 'great kindness' that I urged the young man to try to save you ? " went on Isabel, still smiling, and interrupting Sir George's thoughts. " If you do, you need not thank me. What I did, I did selfishly, for I could not bear to see a human creature perish without some eflfort being made to save him." " Then, as I am that ' human creature,' I suppose I owe you some thanks, don't I ? " BENEATH THE WAVE. 77 asked Sir George, with a sort of cynicism in his tone that Isabel instantly detected. "Yes," she said sharply, "for life is a boon, is it not ? " "Say rather that death is a dread," an- swered Sir George, with a sort of shudder. Isabel turned her head away. " I never think of death," she said. " I love life ; I am young ; death seems far away from me." " No one can say that," said Sir George,, moodily. " I say it," answered Isabel, in her bright,, defiant way. " I mean to live — I mean to enjoy life, and to live a long, long life." Sir George Hamilton made no answer; and as he stood there, silent and gloomy,. Isabel looked steadily in his face. He was a handsome man, with a pale, slightly olive-tinted skin, high regular features,, and a dark moustache. He was about thirty- eight or nine years of age at this time, and was^ tall and well-formed. Altogether he was a remarkable-looking man ; remarkable for his 78 BENEATH THE WAVE. good looks and for his proud and distin- guished bearing ; and Isabel Trevor was much struck with his whole appearance. "And are you better?" she asked, with interest. "Have you recovered from the frightful shock ? " " Yeg, I am better," he answered ; " and I am truly pleased to hear from the doctor this morning that Mr. Hayward, the brave young man that saved my life, is also now pronounced to be out of danger." " So papa told me," said Isabel. " Yes, I am glad — ^it was a brave action." " A very brave action," said Sir George. " But I knew he was a good swimmer when I implored him to try to save you," continued Isabel. "He swam out and brought in a woman's body quite lately." " Indeed ! Well, I have sent Hannaway to see him. In any way that I can push him on in life I shall only be too ready to do so. He is a gentleman, I suppose ? " " There is some legend to that effect, I be- lieve, in the village," answered Isabel, care- BENEATH THE WAVE. 79 lessly, " but I have never paid much atten- tion to it. Ah, here is Miss Marston," she went on, as Hilda Marston now entered the drawing-room. *'Miss Marsfcon," she con- tinued, *'Sir George Hamilton is inquiring about Mr. Hajrward, the tutor. I tell him I know little of him, excepting that he has the reputation of being a good swimmer, but per- haps you know more about him ? Miss Marston's little brother is one of his pupils, Sir George." Sir George bowed to Miss Marston when Isabel mentioned her name, and then again when she imparted the information that Miss Marston s brother was one of Mr. Hayward's pupils. " Then perhaps you can tell me something about him. Miss Marston ? " said Sir George, addressing Hilda, who coloured slightly at the question. "Do you mean about himself, or his family ? " she asked, in a pleasant, low-toned voice. "About both, if you can give me any 80 BENEATH THE WAVE. information/' answered Sir George. '^ I am naturally much interested in him. I owe him a debt I can never repay." " Yes, indeed," said Hilda Marston. "Do you know him well?" asked Sir George. "Not very," answered Hilda, "but I do know him, and— he is a gentleman. His father was an officer, I beUeve, and died of sunstroke out in India, and left a young widow and one little boy, who is now Mr. Hay ward. That is all I know, I think," she went on with a sort of sweet modesty of manner which was habitual to her ; " but I believe he is very nice — and you know he is very brave." " How do you know he is very nice. Miss Marston ? " said Isabel, with a little scoffing laugh. "Do you mean nice-looking, nice- mannered, or what ? I hate the term * nice ' when appHed to a man. I can imagine a nice tame cat, but not a nice man." Hilda Marston looked annoyed. " I mean," she said, " that he seems agree- able." BENEATH THE WAVE. 81 " I wish I had noticed this paragon of per- fection before/' continued Isabel, with another laugh. " Is he very good looking ? I really forget." " He is clever looking," answered Hilda Marston. ^* Which is much better than ordinary beauty," said Sir George. " A clever face is always an attractive one." '^ I think so, too," said Hilda. ** I don't, then," said Isabel. " A handsome face to me is always an attractive one." And she looked at Sir George with her beautiful eyes as she spoke. After this the conversation about the tutor was dropped. Isabel volunteered to show Sir George her conservatories, and led him thither without asking Hilda Marston to accompany them. "Who is that young lady?" asked Sir George, when he found himself beneath the gorgeously flower-festooned glass roof of one of the conservatories, which was filled to pro- ftision with the rarest and choicest plants. VOL. I. G 82 BENEATH THE WAVE. " My companion, Miss Maxston," answered Isabel. ** I was lonely here after I returned from school, for there is so little society that I care about, and papa therefore proposed for me to have a companion. She is a clergy- man's daughter, and is very useful to me." " And you never had a sister ? " asked Sir George. " Yes," said Isabel, " but she died when we were children. She would have been twenty-one now — one year younger than I am." *' And you are twenty-two ? " said Sir George, looking at Isabel. " Yes, twenty-two," she answered, laughing, and showing her white teeth. "An old woman of twenty-two ! " She was standing, a3 she said this, beneath a long trailing festoon of some bright green creeper, and she saw that Sir George was admiring her. This was what she lived for ; but another idea crept into her heart at this moment. " He is rich, he is well-born," she thought. BENEATH THE WAVE. 83 "Why should I not marry him? I must marry some day ; why not marry Sir George HamUton ? " There was a marvellously subtle grace about aus woman which fa^^inated men She was a bom coquette, and had the power somehow of making every man think that she admired hiTISd anyone told Sir George HamUton that he would spend two hours this day with any woman amid her flowers, when he rose suUen and desponding in the morning, he would have laughed them to scorn. Yet he did spend them. He sat down by Isabel's side and talked to her amid the perfumed air. He was not very communicative about his past life, though. He had spent the last five or six years abroad, he told Isabel, and that was about all the information that she gained. " In what country T she asked. " In many countries," he answered. '* I have wandered to and fro upon the earth, Miss Trevor." " Have you been in Spain ? " said Isabel. " Yes," answered Sir George, and a flush 84 BENEATH THE WAVE. passed for a moment over his usually pale face. " Why do you ask ? " he inquired the next minute. " You remind me of Spain, somehow," she answered. "There is something romantic even in this prosaic age, I think, about Spain." "But there is nothing romantic about me," said Sir George. " Is there not ? " said Isabel, softly. "Ah, you cannot tell." And she gave a little sigh. " It's best to keep out of romances," said Sir George; rising from his seat by her side. "They are dangerous things, ending some- times " And he hesitated. " In tragedies ? " said Isabel. " Or comedies," went on Sir George, with affected carelessness of manner. " Tragedies or comedies," repeated Isabel, rising also, "in which shall we act our parts? Well, we shall know some day, shall we not, Sir George, before the curtain falls 1 " And with a slight laugh she turned away. CHAPTER VI. A FAREWELL WORD. The next few days Isabel Trevor spent in trying to fascinate Sir George Hamilton. She was an adept in the art, but Sir George was either cool or wary. At least he gave no signs of being an easy victim, and yet Isabel felt sure that he admired her. But he was gloomy and taciturn, at times, in spite of all her attractions. He spoke, too, of leaving Sanda ; of leaving as soon as he had aeen the young man who had saved his life, and Isabel began to be somewhat doubtful about her success. Mr. Hannaway left the Hall the day after his visit to the parsonage. He had pro- fessional business to attend to, he said, 86 BENEATH THE WAVE. when Mr. Trevor hospitably asked him to stay. " But I dare say we shall meet at Mas- sam ? " said Mr. Hannaway, pleasantly. Now Massam was a place of Sir George Hamil- ton's, in Yorkshire, to which he had heard the baronet invite their present host during the evening before. " Yes, I hope to see Mr. Trevor at Mas- sam," said Sir George, who was standing by. " And don't you hope to see Miss Trevor at Massam ? " asked Isabel coquet tishly, who was also standing near. "Yes, if Miss Trevor pleases to come," answered Sir George, looking at her with a smile ; " but there is no lady to entertain you there." *^I hate ladies in general," said Isabel, tossing back her head. " I get on far better with men. Ladies in general are jealous, narrow-minded, and spiteful. Yes, Sir George, you need not try to make that excuse," she added, smiling more coquettishly stm. BENEATH THE WAVE. 87 ** I do not wish to make excuses," he said. " If you will come, of course I shall be de- lighted to see you." "Miss Hilda Marston can accompany my dauighter," said Mr. Trevor, in his pompous fashion. He was not very brilliant, but he had penetration to see through his daughter's design, and he perfectly approved of it. He, in fact, was very anxious that Isabel should marry, because he wished and mtended to Ma:^' again himself. But he knew that he could not do so vdth any chance of domestic comfort if his daughter was still unwedded. Sir George Hamilton he believed to be a suitable person to marry Isabel, and he therefore cultivated the baronet's intimacy, and was very cordial (for him) in his manner to their guest. But a painful episode sud- denly ended Sir George's stay at Sanda Hall. This was the news which was conveyed to him, a day or two after the conversation about Isabel's visit to Massam, that the sea had once more given up some of its dead. Two bodies had been washed on shore at 88 BENEATH THE WAVE. Sanda, and they were supposed to be part of the crew of Sir Georges lost yacht, the Endymion. Sir George could scarcely con- trol his emotion when he heard of this. His pale dark face grew paler, and his lips quivered nervously in spite of his efforts to appear calm. Isabel Trevor, who was with him at the time when the squire told him the news, looked at him in absolute surprise. ^' How strange he is ! " she said to Hilda Marston afterwards. ^' Why, he knew that these poor men were all dead, so why should he be so agitated at their bodies being cast up ? It is rather unmanly, I think." " It naturally must painfully remind him of what was so nearly his own fate," replied Hilda. " But it's folly always to be thinking of tiresome things," said Isabel, carelessly. " But death is such a solemn thing," said Hilda, and she went to the window and gave a sigh as she looked out. This girl had had a very different ex- perience of life to Isabel Trevor. She had BENEATH THE WAVE. 89 passed through the great winnowing machine of trouble, and had seen a father, whom she dearly loved, die, with anxiety and poverty to embitter his last hours. It was a sad and common story, which had ended one summer morning at the country parsonage where Hilda had been born. Mr. Marston, her father, was a well-meaning, kind-hearted man, easily betrayed into extravagances, to escape from the consequences of which he had (without any knowledge of business) em- barked in speculations. He died a ruined man, heart-broken at the prospect of leaving his portionless children to the mercies of a cruel world. His wife (who was dead) had been a cousin of Mrs. Trevor's, of Sanda Hall — a poor relation, in fact; and on his death-bed he wrote and implored Mr. Trevor to do some- thing for his penniless children. Death is always terrible, but, oh ! reader, does it not add to its terrors when there is not money enough in the house even to bury the dead ? This was the case at Welldean Parsonage on 90 BENEATH THE WAVE. the July morning when Mr. Marston died. HUda's eldest sister Marian was forced to beg Mr. Trevor to advance them a small sum for their present necessities, and Mr. Trevor was not hard-hearted enough to refuse her request. He was touched, indeed, when he went to the funeral of his distant relative, to see the piteous grief of the second daughter, Hilda, for her dear father. The poor girl's white face, and overwhelming outbreak of sorrow, when he tried to say a few words of comfort to her, moved him to compassion, and induced him to oflfer Hilda a temporary home at least at Sanda Hall. The eldest daughter, Marian, was several years older, and better able to face the inevitable struggle for subsistence before them. Mr. Trevor, therefore, after much mental hesitation, decided to oflfer Hilda a home for the present with his daughter ; and he also, with yet more mental hesitation, determined to undertake the ex- pense of educating Ned Marston, the poor dead vicar's youngest child. BENEATH THE WAVE. 91 The family, which consisted of four, was finallj disposed of thus : Marian, the eldest daughter, procured a situation as governess to the six children of a neighbouring clergy- man; Paul, the eldest son, went into the merchant navy as midshipman ; Hilda to Sanda Hall, as companion to Isabel Trevor ; and Ned, the youngest, as pupil of the Rev. Matthew Irvine. This had aU happened only two years ago, so that death seemed still very sad and solemn to Hilda Marston. She had not laid her mourning aside yet for her poor father, nor had the painful memories of his deathbed faded from her heart. But she seldom spoke of such things at Sanda Hall. Isabel Trevor would have considered them " a bore," and the squire loved not to be reminded of our mortal tenure. But her naturally tender and sympathetic nature had grown more tender and sympathetic during these hours of trial. She understood, therefore, what Sir George Hamilton must feel, when, one after the other, the dead faces of his late companions 92 BENEATH THE WAVE. reappeared upon the earth. He was called upon also to identify them as the one survivor of the crew of the lost Endymion. All this seemed exquisitely painful to Sir George. At the inquest held on the bodies of the poor sailors he was forced to enter into the details of the wreck. The twelve jurymen who sat to listen to his account had not often the satisfaction of questioning a real baronet, and they therefore did it to the best of their ability. The proud and reserved Sir George was required to tell the history of his cruise, the number and names of his crew, how the storm came on, and to answer questions which he considered utterly irrelevant to the inquiry. His replies were brief, cold, and to the point ; but he said when it was over that he would not care to encounter it again. *^If any more of these unfortunate men should be cast up," he told his host, as they returned together to Sanda Hall after the inquest, " the painfiil scene that I have just passed through would have to be gone over again, if I remain here (as you so kindly wish BENEATH THE WAVE. 93 me to do) any longer. No, I will leave Sanda to-day." " But," replied Mr. Trevor, " only to return, I hope, when these painful recollec- tions have faded from your mind ?" " That can never be," answered Sir George, in a low tone. " Time is a great physician," said Mr. Trevor, in a tone as if he considered he was uttering some new and very sagacious sentiment. " True," said Sir George, briefly, and then he changed the conversation, adroitly com- plimenting the squire on the architecture of a cottage which they were then passing, and which Mr. Trevot (so the politic architect allowed him to think) had assisted in designing. " Yes," went on Mr. Trevor, gratified, " it jopives me no small pleasure to think. Sir George, that this visit, which for you began so unpropitiously, has not ended so. Mr. Hannaway also admires the peculiar con- struction of this cottage, and I promised to 94 BENEATH THE WAVE. send him the plan, a^ he says that you propose to build some labourers' cottages at Massam. When I visit you there, I shall be proud to see my humble ideas carried out on a more extensive scale than it would be judicious of me to attempt here." Sir George assented carelessly. He was not thinking of the Squire of Sanda and his model cottage. He was thinking what a madman he was himself. What ! had he allowed Isabel Trevor's beautiful face to bewitch him already, he thought — ^he who had no right to seek her love ? The squire went on talking complacently, and the baronet walked on gloomy and taciturn by his side. Then, just as they reached the gates of the Hall, Isabel, well mounted, and followed by her groom, rode up to them. " Is it over ? " she said almost in a whisper to Sir George, as he assisted her to dismount at the Hall door. '^ I have felt for you so much," she went on, in the same soft under- tone, "that I could not bear to stay indoors." How could he tell that she was lying to BENEATH THE WAVE. 95 him ? She had a skin so soft and fair that the colour came and went in it with every passing emotion of her heart. She was wishing him to beUeve in her at that mo- ment, and so her bloom deepened, and her scarlet lips parted, as the false words lin- gered upon them. "I thank you," said Sir George, in a low earnest voice. " You must tell me all about it ! " con- tinued Isabel. And she looked up into Sir George's face with her changeful, brilliant eyes. " No, no," he answered, and his head fell. *' I must go away ; better for us both that I should go away." These were the first words that Sir George had ever uttered to Isabel which had not been spoken in the ordinary language of society, and her glittering eyes glittered more brightly as she caught his tones. *' No," she said, after a moment's thought, ^* let me try to make you forget the past." Sir George absolutely started, and his pale 96 BENEATH THE WAVE. face flushed deeply, as those few words reached his ears. Then he spoke — " It is a gloomy past," he said, " and I must learn to bear its memory as best I can — ^alone." Had he offered to confide in her Isabel would probably have cared very little about his confidence. As it was, her interest in his past life grew intense. But they were enter- ing the haU door at the time that he said these words, and as a servant or two were loitering near, Isabel was compelled for the present to abandon the subject. Then the luncheon bell rang, and before that meal was over. Sir George rose, with an apology, and asked leave of Isabel to go at once and pay his promised visit to Mr. Hay ward- " I must leave Sanda in time to catch the five train for the south," he said, *' and it would ill become me to do so without seeing the brave young man who saved my life. Therefore, I must beg you to excuse me. Miss Trevor." Isabel coloured, but it was with vexation. BENEATH THE WAVE. 97 She had intended to make a conquest of Sir George, and she had always hitherto succeeded when she had intended to make a conquest. But before she could recover from her sur- prise, Sir George had left the room, and then Isabel looked quickly and inquiringly at her father. " This is a sudden resolution of Sir George's, papa ? " she said. "He was much affected when viewing the bodies of the unfortunate sailors," re- plied the Squire. " He told me in return- ing that he could not bear to do so again ; 'and as in all probabihty more of these poor men will be cast up, he has determined to leave Sanda at once. But from what I gathered," added the Squire, considerately, "he will certainly at some future period return." " Oh ! " said Isabel ; and then she finished her lunch, whilst Sir George proceeded direct to the Parsonage. When he arrived there, he was ushered into Mrs. Irvine's drawing-room. This was VOL. I. H 98 BENEATH THE WAVE. one of those rooms in which the shabbiness of the furniture is attempted to be shrouded by- antimacassars. Amelia ShadweU had appar- ently spent her time from her earliest infancy in manufacturing these doubtful adornments, for they were of many descriptions, and of divers kinds. Mats, also, of briUiantly-tinted * wools, whose borderings were of raised flowers of unnatural dimensions, were placed in every possible spot that was capable of sup- porting them. Then the walls, on which a mildewed brown and grey paper hung, were adorned with photographs and famt water- coloured drawings, also framed by the indus- triou^ Amelia, ^^^traw frames and stamped leather frames, and various other ingenious devices. The photographs chiefly consisted of the late numerous little I r vines, and were of the gloomy and blotchy description usually produced by travelUng photographers. Al- together it was a dismal room, and lacked the essential quality of comfort, which can so easily be given by a tastefiil woman's hand. BENEATH THE WAVE. 99 Presently the door opened, and Amelia Irvine's stiff plump form and rosy common- place face appeared. " Oh ! Sir George Hamilton," she said, in much confusion, "Ma's so sorry, but she's not well. She's bilious," went on the lo- quacious Amelia, "yellow, almost saffron in colour, and she can't come down, and pa's out. He's just gone out, and may be back in a minute; and ma told me to ask you to sit and wait, or, if you are in a hurry, to send a message up to her by me." " I came to see Mr. Hayward," answered Sir George to this prolonged address. " Per- haps you will ask your mother if I can see him?" " Well, I don't know, I'm sure," answered Amelia, blushing at the mention of the tutor's name. " You see he's to be kept quiet. He's had his arm dressed this morning with a new kind of bandage, and he seems fidgety. I offered to read the lessons to him, and the Psalms, or even a light book, but he said his head ached too badly to listen. But he takes 100 BENEATH THE WAVE. his beef-tea. As I always say to ma, that's a comfort. Beef-tea's so nourishing that he can't go down as long as he takes it." " Well, kindly ask your mother if I can see him," said Sir George. But at this minute, while Amelia still hesitated, anxious to prolong her conversation with a baronet, the Rev. Matthew entered the room and held out his hand cordially to Sir George. "They told me that you were here. Sir George," he said. *^ Allow me to congratu- late you on your happy recovery." " Thanks," replied Sir George. " I am leaving Sanda to-day, Mr. Irvine, and I wish- before I go to have a short interview with Mr. Hayward." " No doubt, no doubt," said the genial parson. '^ Run, my dear " (this was to Amelia), " and tell your mother that Sir George wishes to see Hayward." " Yes, pa," answered Amelia, and she hastily left the room, running as fast as her substantial feet could carry her, to the tutor's. BENEATH THE WAVE. 101 " Hayward," she said, in her hurry, addressing him by his surname as her mother always did, " Sir George Hamilton's come I Such a grand man. So handsome ! Let me put the pillows straight, and pop an antima- cassar or two on the chairs, to make the room look decent, before he comes in.'* "Is he coming up to see me T asked Hayward, and his pale face flushed. " He's come on purpose to see you,'* answered Amelia, hurriedly opening a drawer and producing several clean antimacassars. " There ! they'll make the room look better. Grood gracious !" she cried the next minute, *' here they are !" And in her haste, her antimacassars fell on the floor, just as Sir George and her father entered the tutor's room. " I came to tell him, pa," she said, now absolutely scarlet at being found in the tutor's room ; " Ma's so bilious she can't lift her head from the pillows, so I was forced to come." " No excuse is needed, my dear," said the Rev. Matthew, good-naturedly. " Sir George 102 BENEATH THE WAVE. will understand that in a small household like orurs we cannot stand on much ceremony." Somewhat comforted on the score of pro- priety, Amelia, after glancing at Sir George and seeing that his eyes were fixed on Hay- ward's face, now tried to kick the fallen anti- macassars under the bed. " We will leave you together," went on the Rev. Matthew, addressing Sir George, and then glancing with a kindly smile at Hay- ward, " I need jiot introduce you, I sup- pose," he continued in his semi-pathetic tones, " the sea did that for ye." And then, with another, kindly look at Hay ward, he beckoned to his daughter, and together they left the room. The two men that they left were both em- barrassed. When last they had exchanged words, they had been face to face with death, and each thought for an instant of that solemn moment now. Then, though not quite in the cold and haughty tones that were habitual to him. Sir George spoke, holding out his hand as he did so. BENEATH THE WAVE. 103 *' I have come to thank you," he said, " to thank you for my life." " I — I — ^am very glad," faltered the tutor, *' that I was able " And then he paused. ** I have incurred a debt to you," went on Sir George, recovering his composure, ** that I can never repay. But in some sort you must allow me to try to show my gratitude to you. You received my message by Mr. Hannaway, did you not ? " "Yes," answered the tutor. " Have you decided on any profession yet, then?" continued Sir George. "But how can I ask — how can I suppose that you, lying here sick and ill, can have come to any real decision ? We will leave, therefore, the ques- tion of your profession to a future time, and for the present we will only arrange some- thing that I hope will be of benefit to you. I leave Sanda to-day, but before I do so, let us fix when you will come and pay a long visit to me." " You are very good,'* hesitated the tutor, " but I am still so weak " 104 BENEATH THE WAVE. "The very reason you require change. Massam (my place in Yorkshire) is only a short journey from here after all, and when you are there I promise you that you shall be regarded as a complete invalid, and allowed to get well at leisure. I can even promise you beef tea,*' added Sir George, with a smile^ "though you may not have Miss Irvine — is that the young lady's name? — ^to ad- minister it." Hayward smiled, too, at this, and looked into Sir George's face with his thoughtful, clever eyes. He liked that face — ^the hand- some, proud, sad face of the man whose life he had risked his own to save. " You are very kind to me," he said, and he held out his hand to Sir George. " It is settled, then," said Sir George, re- turning the tutor s grasp. " You saved my life at the risk of your own, and in return you are coming to stay with me until you get well. Not quite an equal bargain, is it, eh?" he added, with another smile. But it was not a bright smile. There w^^ BENEATH THE WAVE. 105 an indescribable shadow neariy always on Sir George's face. " He is not happy," thought the tutor, and this feeling somehow drew his heart nearer to Sir George. After this they fixed it all. As soon as Hayward could travel with safety, he was to go to Sir George's place in Yorkshire, and there they agree^ to settle the plans for Hayward's future life. They separated with- out any professions ; but each felt that they liked the other, and that the acquaintance they had formed was likely to be lifelong. " I shall ask Miss Irvine for the receipt of the beef tea," said Sir George, smiling and looking back at Hayward, as he left the room. And with that little joke they parted. But Sir George had a few words to say to the Rev. Matthew before he quitted the parson- age, and he said them very briefly. *^Mr. Irvine," he began, as he met the parson in the hall, just after he descended the stairs, " can I speak to you for a moment ? " Then, when the Rev. Matthew led him into his study, he went on — 106 BENEATH THE WAVE. " I have a cheque here," he said, " that I drew this morning to leave with you for your poor. Don't oflfer me any thanks," he con- tinued, as the Rev. Matthew naturally began a complimentary oration. " I wish to give something, and, besides, I owe you so much for your kindness to Mr. Hay ward." " The dear boy is as a scm to me," said the Rev. Matthew. " But sons all cost money," said Sir George, smiling his ordinary cold smile, which had warmed somehow in Hayward s presence. " Pray accept my cheque, Mr. Irvine, and do with it what you like." And then, after a few more courteous words. Sir George left the parsonage, and when the Rev. Matthew opened the cheque, he found it was for three himdred pounds. *^ It is a thank-offering for his life," thought the parson. " Well, now at least" (and his semi-comic look stole over his face), " there'll be many a poor soul in the village glad that he was saved." Sir George walked hastily back to the BBNBATH THE WAVE. 107 Hall, after he had quitted the parsonage. He had, indeed, barely time (with the long drive that he had in prospect before he could reach the nearest railway station) to catch the train south that he intended to travel by, and he was determined, if possible, to do so. But as he went quickly up the staircase to his own room, after he reached the Hall, he suddenly encountered Isabel Trevor. She had been watching for him, and still wore her riding habit, and as she stood on the dark oaken staircase, one step above him, never had she appeared so strikingly beautiful to Sir George. " Well," she said, " and you are really going to-day?" "Yes, I am really going," he answered. For a stranger like myself, I think I have intruded long enough on your hospitality." "A stranger!" repeated Isabel. "You are not a stranger. You can never be a stranger any more." " Shall I not ?" said Sir George, fixing his 108 BENEATH THE WAVE. eyes on her face. "What shall I be, then ? Will you not quite forget me ?" " I will never forget you," answered Isabel, '* never ! " And as the last words fell from her Ups, she passed him, and Sir George, after hesitating a moment, ascended the stair- case to his own room. CHAPTEK VII. SIB GEORGE AT HOME. A FEW minutes after his meeting with Isabel on the staircase, Sir George was ready to leave Sanda. But he quitted his own room for that purpose with a new nervousness, almost fear, in his heart, at the prospect of once more seeing her. When, however, he appeared downstairs he found no trace of her presence. The carriage that he had requested to be ready awaited him at the hall door, and the squire and Hilda Marston awaited him in the hall, but no Isabel was visible. "Where is Miss Trevor? I must say good-bye to her," said Sir George, after ex- changing courteous words of parting with his host and Hilda. 110 BENEATH THE WAVE. "Isabel has mistaken the time of your leaving, I think," said Mr. Trevor. " To my great surprise, I am told she lias just ridden out. I am certain she would not have done so, if she had known you were going." " She told me that she had already said good-bye to you," said Hilda Marston, looking at Sir George. ^^ She did say — one word," answered Sir George, and he made no further inquiries, and a few minutes later was driven from the Hall. It was years since he had been at the home to which he was now going. Years since he had seen the noble mansion, standing amid its wide and magnificently- wooded park, which had been inherited by his father with such pride and joy. How this was is easily told. Massam Park, the ancestral home of the Hamiltons, had for centuries been in the possession of the elder branch of the family, of which Sir George Hamilton's father was a cadet. But a singular fatality had pursued the original possessors, and one after another, in the prime of life, the Hamiltons of Massam BENEATH THE WAVE. Ill had died. Sir George's father was an officer serving with his regunent in India when the news reached him that his young cousin Sir Wilton Hamilton had been killed on the hunting-field, and that by this accident he had become the inheritor of the family estates. With ill-concealed joy Captain Hamilton at once returned to England. He was a married man, with one son, and this son ivaturally became the object of much pride and ambition. But with the proverbial ill- luck of the family, the new baronet did not long enjoy his honours. When Sir George was still a youth, his father succumbed to a sudden attack of illness, and the young Sir George became immediately surrounded by every species of flattery and temptation. Through these early days, however, he passed without coming to any serious mis- chance. He had a good mother, and sua long as he remained in England, she exercised a good influence over him. But when he was about twenty-nine, he became weary of the easy and luxurious routine of his life, and went 112 BENEATH THE WAVE. abroad, travelling over various countries, refusing, to his mother's consternation and surprise, to return home, after what she justly considered to have been a lengthened sojourn in foreign lands. In vain the anxious mother fretted and finally despaired. Lady Hamilton died before her son s return to England, had died one year before we find him, after many years' absence, returning to his home. But in the meantime Massam had not been neglected. Lady Hamilton had been a careful custodian of her son's possessions ; and Mr. Hannaway, Sir George's lawyer, and the agent of the property, had done his duty honourably and well. Massam Park had been kept up precisely as if its owner had lived beneath its roof imtil the last year, when, after Lady Hamilton's death a few of the servants had been discharged. But it was a splendid place, and a sort of pride of being its possessor crept into Sir George's heart when he once more found himself driving through the beautiful sweep of wood- land scenery which led to his stately home. BENEATH THE WAVE. 113 For a moment let us follow h\m there, follow him to the library, which was a hand- some room, containing a valuable collection of English and foreign literature. Beyond the library was a small reading-room, to which you passed through an arch, the fluted columns of which were of white marble. To this room Sir George (after exchanging somewhat distant greetings with the servants assembled in the hall to receive him) went straight after his return to Massam. It had been his favourite room before he had left England, and it had also been the favourite room of his mother, who was a woman of refined and cultivated tastes, and who had loved its placid stillness, spending much of her time here during the latter days of her widowed and lonely life. Her portrait hung upon its walls. A lady with a somewhat sorrowftd face, and gentle eyes, that had a look of patient waiting in them that was inexpressibly touching — in- expressibly touching to her son at least, who VOL. I. I 114 BENEATH THE WAVE. knew that he had kept her waiting for his return so long ! With a bitter sigh Sir George turned away- after gazing on his mother's sad and placid features. He sat down in a chair where she had often sat, and covered his face with his hands, and groaned aloud. " Oh, my God, why did I ever leave her?" he muttered "Or why — ^why have I returned with a past like mine ? " What galling reflections were in his heart ! What was the use to him, he thought, of all the luxuries by which he was surrounded, of all the so-called pleasures that he could com- mand ? He could never enjoy them. There was a shadow on his life, a shadow that, do what he might, go where he could, would always pursue him. From such bitter memories he was roused by hearing a rap at the library door beyond, and presently the good-looking, smiling face of his lawyer, Mr. Hannaway, appeared be. tween the fluted columns of the arch which led to the reading-room. BENEATH THE WAVE. 115 " Welcome home, Sir George ! " said Mr. Hamiaway, holding out his hand to his employer with much cordiality. But Sir Greorge made no attempt to respond in suitable terms. He put his cold hand into his lawyer s, and that was all ; and Mr. Hannaway's smiling expression chaoiged at once to one of sympathy. " You feel coming back ? " he said. " It is only natural — ^where poor Lady Hamilton, too " And the lawyer paused. " Is that like her ? " asked Sir George, pointing to the portrait on the wall. " Very like her," replied Mr. Hannaway, going up to it, and examining Lady Hamil- ton's portrait critically. " She got that expression of late years. She told me that you had requested her to be taken and to have the portrait hung here. She said, poor lady — she was very ill then — * I shall not be waiting for him when he comes home, but the picture will ; ' and so she sat to MiUais." Every word of this speech, uttered in the lawyer's pleasant, easy tones, brought fresh 116 BENEATH THE WAVE. pain to Sir George. Mr. Hannaway was not a sensitive man^ and he therefore often unconsciously hurt the feelings of those whom he never thought of wounding. He was aflfable, constitutionally healthy, and good tempered, and he enjoyed life and all the good things that had hitherto come in his way. His father had been a solicitor, with a large practice, and Mr. Hannaway had succeeded to the practice and many other lucrative appointments besides. One of these was the management of the estates of Sir George Hamilton, and he had fulfilled his duty well, as indeed he apparently fulfilled all the duties of his life. He was on semi- confidential terms with Sir George ; but Sir George was not a confiding man, and the lawyer knew little of his life that he had not been compelled by business arrange- ments to learn. But he knew more than most people, and Sir George had always found him a discreet and reliable man. *' At least," went on Mr. Hannaway, with easy complacency, as Sir George wandered BENEATH THE WAVE. 117 with restless steps up and down the library and reading-room, " I trust you will be satis- fied, when you have time to look over it, with the condition of the property ? " " I have no fear about that," replied Sir George. " And I trust now," continued Mr. Hanna- way, " that you will think of settling amongst us ? Is the lady — ^pardon me asking this question — ^in England ? " "No, no," answered Sir George hastily, "no." " Then have you broken it off? " " Do not speak of this, Hannaway ! " in- terrupted Sir George, with sudden vehemence, "now, nor ever ! I am alone in the world now," he added. " I have no one with me now ! " " Pardon me for approaching the subject, Sir George" said Mr. Hannaway, with some gentlemanly feeling, noting, as he spoke, the ill-concealed agitation of Sir George. The next moment he changed the conversation, and a few minutes later dinner was announced, to which Sir George invited the lawyer to remain. 118 BENEATH THE WAVE. They dined in the smaU dining-room, where (as, indeed, all over the house) were the evidences of great wealth. Massam Park waa a show place, with a state dining-room, and a large drawing-room, and ante-rooms, in which were magnificent specimens of china, of S&vres and Dresden, and great vases of Indian fihgree work, and cabinets, in which were collections of gems and pre- cious stones. The master of all this wealth sat opposite his lawyer with the cloud still on his brow. He talked, however, as other men talk, drinking freely of the rare wines that had lain so long untouched in his well-stocked cellars. Mr. Hannaway also was a free Uver, and could discourse learnedly about the diflferent vintages, of which he professed to be a judge. Then, as the good wine crept through his veins, he became more careless of his words. *' Talking of women," he said, *' where will you find such a woman as Miss Trevor ? A splendid creature ! A lovely woman, I call her." BENEATH THE WATB. 119 " She is very handsome/' said Sir George, coldly. He also had been drinking freely, but no flush had come on his face, nor warmth to his heart. He had a strong head, and he drank glass after glass, but still the hauntmg memory of the past never left him. Yet he felt dis- pleased at his lawyer s tones when he spoke of Isabel Trevor, and if Mr. Hannaway had not been in such a jovial mood, he would easily have perceived it. As it was, he never noted the change on the dark gloomy face opposite to him, and went on speaking rap- turously of laabers charms. "I do not know how you did not fall a victim, Sir George," laughed Mr. Hannaway. " Being shut up in that dull old hall for ten days or so would, I think, have finished most men. Yes, yes; I consider Miss Trevor dangerously attractive." " Do you ? " said Sir George, and he rose from the table. ** Will you take any more wine, Hannaway ? " he went on. " If so, pray help yourself." But the lawyer took the 120 BENEATH THE WAVE. . hint and shortly afterwards left Massam, part- ing with his host in his usual pleasant and unruffled manner. When he was gone, Sir George retired at once to his bedroom, and, opening one of the windows, looked out upon the park. A half-moon was shining overhead, obscured occasionally by drifting clouds, but a gleam fell, as he stood there, on his pale face and gloomy eyes. He was thinking of his youth, of the easy, careless days, scarcely noted then, that he had spent in his old home. Every- thing around him seemed to recall them. There were his cricket bats, his hunting-whips — a hundred little memories, in fact, of the hours that never would return. To most men, perhaps, after a long absence from home, seeing these things again might have caused some sadness, but to few the overpowering emotion that seemed to overwhelm Sir George. He looked at them one after the other, and then, as he had done when he first saw his mother s picture, he covered his face with his hand and groaned aloud. CHAPTER VIII. THE TUTOR. Two days after Sir George left Sanda Hall, to the great surprise of Hilda Marston, Isabel Trevor proposed to her to pay a visit to the parsonage. *^We shall ask for * Spectre/ of course," said Isabel, alluding to poor Mrs. Irvine, but the person I really wish to see is — don't be shocked, pray — is Mr. Philip Hayward. I have been thinking how horribly I have treated him ; first, by sending him into the sea to fish out that gloomy Sir George ; secondly, by never having taken any notice of him since. But I mean to begin to-day. To commence with, I will take him a bouquet." 122 BENEATH THE WAVE. " Miss Trevor ! " said Hilda. *^Why ^0 Miss Trevor!' pray?" asked Isabel. ** If a poor man were to risk his life to please you, would you not have the grace to thank him ? " " Yes— but " "My good creature, spare me^both your ' ' and your * buts.' I am going, so kindly put on your hat to accompany me." Of course there was nothing for Hilda but to obey after this command, and indeed she herself was not unwilling to see Philip Hayward again. She, in fact, liked and admired him, and she was only unwilling that Isabel should go to the parsonage, because with womanly penetration she had guessed his secret. She guessed, too, what Isabel had thought of Sir George Hamilton. But Sir George was not there ; and if it pleased Miss Trevor to amuse herself with the tutor, the companion perforce must accompany her. They reached the parsonage about four o'clock, and their appearance there was evidently both unexpected and trying. The BENEATH THE WAVE. 123 rosy-faced girl who opened the door for them left them standing in the hall until she ran up stairs "to see if the mistress was in/' This explanation being given with much confusion and hesitation of speech. The truth was, that in the drawing-room (the one reception room of the family) the tutor had this day, for the first time since his accident, been conducted, and was at the moment of their arrival lying on a couch asleep, fairly enveloped in antimacassars, by the carefiil hands of Amelia Shadwell. " What was to be done then ? " thought the maid. " What was to be done ? " thought Mrs. Irvine, when she was informed that the ladies from the Hall were waiting downstairs. "I will tell them the truth, Susan, and they will go away," at last decided Mrs. Irvine ; and so, after throwing a white knitted shawl over her shoulders, she descended the staircase, receiving the young ladies without apparent embarrassment, for she was a lady who frequently declared that 124 BENEATH THE WAVE. she never would be " put upon by anyone ;" and as the wife of the incumbent of Sanda, thought herself fit society for any of his parishioners. " Well, ladies/' she said, extending her gaunt hand, first to Isabel, and then to Hilda, "how are you? I'm sorry Susan didn't show you upstairs at once, but I may as well tell you how it is. My young man (I call Hayward my young man, just by way of a joke, you know) has got into the drawing-room for the first time to-day, and he's lying on the sofa, asleep, I beheve, Amelia Shad well said." *' Do ask Miss Amelia Shadwell to awaken him, then," answered Isabel, with cool assurance of manner, for she regarded the Irvines with the most thorough contempt, *' I particularly' wish to see Mr. Hayward. I have brought this bouquet on purpose for him." " Oh, if you wish to see Hayward, of course " hesitated Mrs. Irvine. " I do, indeed," said Isabel, " and so I am BENEATH THE WAVE. 125 sure does Miss Marston," and she turned to Hilda with a smile. " We will take a turn round your garden, Mrs. Irvine," she went on, " until you have prepared your invalid to see us. Tell him from me that I have brought him some flowers." Hayward was really asleep when Mi's. Irvine went upstairs to convey this message to him. He was dreaming, poor fellow, until he was aroused by a sharp tap on his shoulder, and starting up, beheld Mrs. Irvine's grim figure. " Hayward I" she said, in her sepulchral tones, *' wake up. Miss Trevor's come to see you, and brought you a great bouquet." " What !" exclaimed Hayward, and for- getting his broken arm, he sprang to his feet, his pale face flushing in a moment a sudden crimson. '* Don't excite yourself, Hayward," said Mrs. Irvine, reproachfully. " Remember your bandages, Hayward, remember your pride, Hayward, and don't let her see that you think anything of her visit." 126 BENEATH THE WAVE. " Where is she I" gasped Hayward, turning pale as suddenly as he had turned red. " Taking a turn round the garden," answered Mrs. Irvine, coolly picking up some of the antimacassars that had fallen off Hayward when he started up. " There I let me put you tidy a bit — now sit straight and hold up your head like a man." Mrs. Irvine always addressed the tutor in this maternal strain. Whether he had re- placed any of the defunct little Matthew or Tommy Shadwells in her heart I know not, but she always treated him as if he were a little boy. But she was very kind to him, and there was nothing that it had been in her power to do for him since his illness that she had not done. She felt a little jealous, there- fore, of Miss Trevor coming to see him now, when she had never *' once looked near even to inquire before," she confided afterwards to Amelia Shadwell. This young lady felt jealous also, and it must be admitted with considerable reason. She remembered all the beef-tea that she had BENEATH THE WAVE. 127 made and the dresses that she had singed during the operation. She was making beef-tea in fact when her mother came into the kitchen where she was and in- formed her that Miss Trevor had called to see Hayward. Ameha turned pale at this unexpected news, and her heart sank. This fooUsh maiden had been nursing some very romantic dreams of late, and had imagined that her devotion to Hayward was sure to be rewarded. " Who has ever nursed him, as I have nursed him ?" she often thought. " Who has ever cared for him as I do T She therefore trembled when she heard that Miss Trevor had called to see Hayward. Even her feeble mind recognized the fact that her small domestic virtues would pale before Isabel Trevor's great attractions ; and such was her emotion at the idea that in her distraction of mind she upset the pan of beef-tea ! " Ameha Shadwell, what are you doing T asked her mother in hollow tones from the other side of the kitchen, when this accident 128 BENEATH THE WAVE. occurred ; upon which the unhappy Amelia immediately burst into tears. " What is there to cry about ? '' said Mrs. Irvine, advancing towards her daughter, as the fumes of the spilt fluid spread through the house. But Amelia went on crying in spite of her mother's remonstrances, but it was not only for the upsetting of the beef- tea. In the meantime Isabel Trevor was making herself charming to Philip Hayward up- stairs. Mrs. Irvine, before she had descended to the kitchen to tell Ameha of the arrival of the ladies from the hall, had grimly ushered them into the drawing-room, remark- ing as she did so to the tutor — "Now, Hayward, don't talk too much. Remember what the doctor said about keeping quiet, and I hope these ladies will remember it too. Excuse my giving you a hint. Miss Trevor, but his head's only weak stiU, and I can't have him thrown back." Isabel took not the slightest notice of this speech. She was advancing towards the BENEATH THE WAVE. 129 tutor when it was made with outstretched hand^ who had risen at her entrance, and stood leaning against the couch, pale and trembhng. " How are you ? " she asked in her softest tones. " Are you better ? "Yes — ^yes," stammered Hayward, "it is very good of you — ^to come." He never saw Miss Marston, who was also advancing towards him with outstretched hand. Only Isabel — only the beautiful face which had bewitched him, which had stolen his better sense away. " Good," repeated Isabel. " How good ? I came to see you the moment I could hope to see you. Of course, you know that I have sent every day to inquire ?" 0, Isabel, Isabel 1 A message certainly had come from the Hall daily, but not through her. Nay, she had forgotten often to inquire, or had never heard the answer to the inquiries, which Hilda Marston had never neglected to send. " I can only repeat," said Hayward, VOL. I. K 130 BENEATH THE WAVE. regaining some composure, "that you are very good/' " I owe you something, do I not 1 " asked Isabel, fixing her lovely, changeful eyes on Hayward's face. " You did for me what no other man ever did — ^what no other man will ever do." " You ^mean ? " asked Hayward fal- teringly. " You risked your life," went on Isabel, "at my light word. I little dreamt that you would go. I Uttle dreamt what I would feel, when I saw you plunge into the sea that day." As Isabel said this, a wild feeling of joy rushed into the tutor's heart. " I — I — would do it again to-morrow," he said, his voice broken with strong emotion, " to hear you say these words." "Hush, I will not hear such nonsense!" exclaimed Isabel, with horror, putting up her hands. "I admire bravery, I honour bravery, but I trust I shall never have to endure again what you made me endure during that awful storm." BENEATH THE WAVE. 131 " And you went down on the rocks ?" said Hayward, his deep feehngs colouring his pale face, and lighting up his hazel eyes. " You risked as much as I did — ^you who had so much " Again the tutor s voice broke and faltered, and Isabel perfectly understood what feelings were struggling in his heart. " You had so much — ^love, beauty, wealth. I had nothing. Oh ! God bless and keep you for your gentle thought of me." This was what the tutor was feeling. But as the cat sometimes seems to take momen- tary compassion • on the mouse, Isabel now took compassion on her victim. *^ Come," she said, '* we must not talk of these things any more. They excite you too much. I must not forget Mrs. Irvine's hint," and Isabel laughed sweetly. Hayward, too, smiled at this. " She is very good, and very kind," he said, " and you must excuse " "Pray don't make any apologies," inter- rupted Isabel, still laughing. " I consider It ~ 132 BENEATH THE WAVE. the ^ Spectre ' quite an institution, for she everlastingly reminds us of our latter end." She is odd-looking," answered Hay ward, but really kind. As for Mr. Irvine, I cannot speak in high enough terms of so excellent a man." " He is very good, I daresay, "i^said Isabel. " There is an admirer of his," she continued, carelessly pointing to Hilda Marston, whose presence during the foregoing conversation had been quite forgotten, and Who was now occupying herself by looking out of the window. As Isabel said this about |^her being an admirer of Mr. Irvine's, Hilda turned roimd, and when the tutor saw her face, he blushed deeply, and became greatly confused. " Pardon me, Miss Marston," he said, " I I did not see you before. I think the blow on my^head affects my sight. I think " " It is no matter," answered Hilda, gently, but she felt deeply hurt. The best woman is not an angel, and if she were I don't BENEATH THE WAVE. 133 suppose we faulty mortals would like her ; and the best woman, therefore (to go back to Hilda) has her vanity. To be overlooked is never pleasant. Hilda felt that she had been overlooked, nay, entirely forgotten, by the man for whom, during the last fortnight, she had felt great anxiety; and therefore Hilda did not like it. Her face told this as plainly as if she had said it in words, and the tutor felt greatly annoyed with himself for his neglect. " I hope you understand. Miss Marston," he went on, trying to make things better, " that I did not mean " " You were so much interested in your conversation with Miss Trevor that you never saw me," interrupted Hilda. "Pray don't say anything more, Mr. Hayward, as that is the truth." " Of course, he was interested in his con- versation with me!" said Isabel, coquet- tishly. " And to return to our conversation, Mr. Hayward, have you heard anything of the gloomy and taciturn Sir Greorge ? " 134 BENEATH THE WAVE. There it was at last ! This question was the motive of Isabel's visit to the tutor ; was the reason why she had gathered the flowers ; why she had taken the trouble to flatter him, though she certainly had felt some interest in the effect of the last named experiment. " Yes," answered the tutor, " I heard from Sir George this morning. The kindest letter," he went on with animation. " I like what I have seen of Sir George immensely," "He is gentlemanly," said Isabel, as if she were thinking. "What makes him so gloomy, I wonder ? " " Perhaps it is natural to him," said Hay- ward. "And, besides, you saw him under melancholy circumstances — the one survivor of a wreck." " For which happy position he is indebted to you." *^ He seems most anxious to repay that debt, then, if it is one," said Hayward. " Nothing can exceed his kindness to me. I go to Massam as soon as I am able to travel." '* Ah ! " said Isabel, inquiringly. BENEATH THE WAVE. 135 " Yes — for a long visit, Sir George says, but I do not know about that. I — I cannot rest long an idle man, Miss Trevor." His eyes kindled again as he spoke ; kin- dled with a young man's animation and hope. '' No ! " said Isabel, and she looked at him. **I heard that Sir George had offered to advance you in any profession that you may choose," she continued. *' Have you decided on which it shall be ? " " No," answered Hayward. " I wish to see Sir George first— of course there are many things to arrange." "Of course. And you go to Massam probably next week ? " went on Isabel, medi- tatively. " How strange ! Do you know that I am likely to see you there then f I have some friends- school friends, they call Featherstone — ^who live in a place called Featherstone, and Featherstone is only a few miles off Sir George's place, Massam, and these girls have asked me to stay with them." "Yes!" said the tutor, and his breath came short. 136 BENEATH THE WAVE. '* Sir George invited us to Massam, also," continued Isabel, " and I think I shall go for a few days on my way to the Featherstone's. So we shall probably meet soon again, Mr. Hayward." '* I earnestly hope so ; but before I leave here, before I leave Sanda, may I give myself the pleasure of calling upon you — to say good-bye ? " Hay ward's was one of those faces which at times — though not really so — look absolutely beautiful from the force of expression. He looked almost beautiful then, as he asked, in pleading, earnest tones, for leave to visit Isabel ; and Isabel, who was a judge, and an admirer of beauty, acknowledged it. " Certainly you may come," she said ; *' why do you ask ? But all this time," she added lightly, lifting the bouquet which she had brought from the table where she had laid it, *^ I have forgotten to present you with my flowers. I know invalids like them," she went on smiling, and moving her form with a sort of subtle grace which was pecuUar to her. BENEATH THE WAVE. 137 '* This is a lovely rose, is it not ? " And she pulled from among the rest of the flowers a crimson bud, and held it towards Hayward. But before his lips could utter his brief though heartfelt words of gratitude for this act of grace, a portentous rap was heard at the door, and the next moment the grim head of Mrs. Irvine appeared. ** Excuse my giving you another hint, ladies," she said, " but Hay ward's talked enough. He's in my charge, you know, and I'm responsible, and if his head gets light — " " No fear, Mrs. Irvine," laughed Hayward pleasantly. *'Lie down, Hayward," said Mrs. Irvine authoritatively in her hollow tones. " Wrap your head in an antimacassar, and try to sleep. Your eyes are bright, though they are not generally so, and you have a colour, though you are generally sallow, and I know what it all means. You are over excited, and it is as certain as possible if you don't keep yourself quiet, your head will wander." ** Well, then, lest your head should go 138 BENEATH THE WAVE. astray, Mr. Hay ward," said Isabel, flippantly, *'and give poor Mrs. Irvine the trouble of running after it, I shall say good-bye. Good- bye," and she put her hand in his for a moment, and then, after scarcely touching Mrs. Irvine's fingers, with a little smiling nod she left the room, followed by Hilda Marston, who only bowed gravely to the tutor in token of farewell. " Mark my words, Hayward," said Mrs. Irvine, in a sepulchral voice, turning to the tutor after the door had closed behind the two ladies, " that is a light woman, and no good will ever come of her, or to her." ** Why do you say such a thing ?" answered Hayward with sudden temper. " Because she is so beautiful, I suppose, that all other women are jealous of her !" "No, young man, not from jealousy,'^ replied Mrs. Irvine yet more grimly, " though you might have spared a woman old enough to be your mother that taunt. But I judge her by her words and looks and by the way she lets no man pass her. If my Matthew BENEATH THE WAVE. 139 himself had been in the room just now she would have been casting her eyes at him." *' What nonsense, what folly !" said Hayward. " You wiU Uve to find it trae," answered Mrs. Irvine, in the hollow tones of prophecy ; and then, after stirring the fire, she quitted the room, leaving Hayward to his sweet and bitter reflections. From these, in about half-an-hour, he was aroused by someone coming into the room, and, turning round, he perceived it was Miss Amelia. " Oh ! Miss Amelia," he said, good-tem- peredly, '* be a kind creature, won't you, and bring me a vase and some water for these beautiful flowers that Miss Trevor has brought ?" These words utterly overcame Miss Amelia's already exasperated heart. *' No, Hayward, I won't !" she cried ex- citedly. " I won't bring you a vase, and I won't bring you any water, I won't, I won't !" And then her voice became choked with sobs. 140 BENEATH THE WAVE. ** My dear girl/' said Hayward, in great concern, ** what is the matter ? You must be ill, Miss Amelia. What is it, my dear girl r " Don't call me your dear girl," screamed the unhappy Amelia, snatching the hand away that Hayward had endeavoured consol- ingly to take. " Don't, I say, don't !" " But what have I done ?" asked Hay- ward, in utter amazement at this outbreak " How have I oflFended you. Miss Amelia ?' As poor Hayward had done nothing, Miss Amelia could not make any accusations, but continued sobbing spasmodically for some time, and then suddenly cried out in a gasping voice — " She is a bad creature ! She is an upstart ! Mamma says — ^mamma says she treated her as if she were sweepings ! There !" " Who do you mean ?" said Hayward, beginning to laugh, and thinking the whole family had gone mad. " Do you mean Miss Trevor ?" "Yes," answered Amelia loudly, "Miss BENEATH THE WAVE. 141 Trevor r And having uttered the name in tones of extreme bitterness, she threw up her head, and, with a glance of unutterable reproach at Hayward, left the room. CHAPTER IX. AT MASSAM PARK. Isabel Trevor walked home after her visit to the parsonage, apparently in rather a medi- tative mood. She walked on in silence for some time, and then said abruptly — " How very good-looking he is 1 " *'Who do you mean?" -asked Hilda Marston, who was still rather in an irrit- able condition of mind. " Mean !" asked Isabel, somewhat pettishly. "Why, Mr. Hayward, of course. What a clever face he has — so thoughtful. I could imagine him a writer." " To be thoughtful doesn't always seem necessary to constitute a writer now-a-days," said Hilda, still suffering from irritation. BENEATH THE WAVE. 143 *'No," answered Isabel, and then she re- lapsed into silence again. She was weaving a little web, one of those small and often incomplete schemes which too many of her type indulge in. What she had told Hayward about knowing the Misses Peatherstone was quite true, but she had almost forgotten this fact until the last few days. True, a desultory correspondence had been carried on between herself and these young ladies since their school days, but of late years this had almost entirely ceased. By accident, however, she had learnt that Featherstone lay near to Massam Park. Then she remembered her old friends, and she was now thinking of what she would write to them, speculating pretty correctly on what their answer would be. You see Isabel Trevor knew her position. She was a beauty and an heiress, and as such always could command attention and flattery. The " Featherstone girls," as she mentally designated her old school companions, would, she knew, only be too glad to have her. 144 BENEATH THE WAVE. They were not heiresses, and they were not beauties. They were the daughters of a small landowner in Yorkshire, who had nearly ruined himself by horse-racing. Ill-luck sets in early with some people, and ill-luck had set in for, and always pursued Mr. Feather- stone, of Featherstone. He never bought or reared a colt but some mischance befel it ; he never backed a winner, and never did any good all his days. He was a widower as well as Isabel's father, for his poor wife had sickened and died after one fatal Derby, from the eflfects of which Mr. Featherstone's finances never had a chance of recovering themselves. Mr. Featherstone himself was a rakish, good- looking man, who affected the horsey style, though horses had been the bane of his life. He had tried several times to retrieve his fortunes by a second marriage with a woman with money, but women with money are shy of a man whose embarrassments are notorious. Yet he always continued to keep his head above water. Mortgages upon mortgages! BENEATH THE WAVE. 145 The estate was mortgaged up to the hall door ; even the stone steps of the vestibule, and the foot-scraper outside, Lucinda Feather- stone (the second daughter) declared were in pecuniary difficulties. Inside, however, everything was jolly. The girls were good tempered and good- looking, and had fine figures and fine con- stitutions. They went to every available "meet," archery party, and dance for miles and miles around, and rode, flirted, and waltzed as if they had not a single care in the world. "They will be delighted to have me,'* thought Isabel Trevor as she walked home from the Parsonage ; and she thought it justly. So as soon as she returned to the Hall she sat down to write to the Featherstones. Papa and herself, she informed them, were going into Yorkshire ; were going to visit Sir George Hamilton at Massam (then followed the details of the shipwreck, and Sir George's " romantic rescue "), and she could not think of being in their neighbourhood without VOL. I. L 146 BENEATH THE WAVE. going to see her old friends. When would they be at home ? and so on. The answer to this letter (which came by return of post) was exactly what Isabel expected. The Featherstones would be deUghted to see her. They were enchanted at the prospect of meeting her, and in rather exuberant and ill-chosen terms declared their satisfaction. Isabel was to fix her own time for the visit ; was assured she would be always welcome, and they expected that she would mtake *' quite a sensation amongst the men (married and unmarried) around them." What style of women the Featherstones were could have been almost told from this letter. Jolly, free-spoken girls, who became intimate friends with men after half an hour's conversation, and who quarrelled and made up again with equal frequency and ease. They, however, were really pleased at the idea of Isabel Trevor visiting them, and good- looking, red-faced, rakish Antony Feather- stone, Esq. (commonly called Toney), was apparently very well pleased also. BENEATH THE WAVE. 147 " If she's an heiress. I think I had better go in for her, my dears ? " he said. " My good old man," answered Lucinda, the second girl, affectionately patting her father's broad shoulders, " you would have no chance. Isabel Trevor is one of the vainest and hand- somest girls I have ever seen. She is ambi- tious, too, or I'm much mistaken, and probably her motive for coming to see us is that she wishes to be longer in the neighhourhood of Sir George. See by her letters how dexte- rously she alludes to him." And Lucinda drew Isabel's letter from her dress pocket and put it into her father's hands with a little laugh. Thus the girls saw through Isabel's motives, and perceived smilingly what she thought she had hidden so well. " If she'a coming after Sir George^ she'll be a little out of her calculations, I fancy," said Mr. Featherstone, rather roughly. " Oh, you mean the old story, I suppose ?" replied Lucinda, lightly. Mr. Featherstone nodded his head signi- ficantly. 148 BENEATH THE WAVE. *'Well, I fancy she is coming after Sir George," rejoined Lucinda. "But there's one thing certain, as far as I remember of Isabel Trevor, she will never break her heart for any living man." *' Quite right," growled Mr. Featherstone, " they aren't worth it." And having given vent to this sentiment, Mr. Featherstone composed himself to sleep. Yes, Mr. Featherstone could sleep appar- ently with an easy conscience, after his brandy and sodas at lunch, and after his bottle of port at dinner, though he knew that at his death his daughters would probably be left penniless. That dark day, however, he never contemplated. He was only a young man still he told himself; the girls might marry. ^ hundred things might occur, in fact, so why should he disturb his rest or make himself miserable ? At all events he did not, and he was undoubtedly a flourishing specimen of a careless, easy, though not a badly intentioned man. ' ' After Isabel Trevor received the gushing BENEATH THE WAVE. 149 letter from the Featherstones she immediately went to her papa. " Papa," she said, " you remember the Featherstone girls ? The girls I was at school with ? " " 1 think I do remember the name, love," repUed Mr, Trevor, removing his respectable, gold-rimmed double glasses from his respect- able lofty nose. *'Well, they have written to ask me to stay with them," went on Isabel, menda- ciously ; *' and as Featherstone, their place, is near Massam Park, papa, I thought per- haps if you are going there soon, as you promised Sir George you would, that we might travel together." "Certainly, my love," answered the squire ; and then he paused. He was wondering if Isabel still thought of Sir George as at one time lie had certainly imagined that she did ; but he was too delicate-minded, in spite of his obscure intellect, to ask. " I thought, you know," continued Isabel, throwing back her head, "that I might go 150 BENEATH THE WAVE. with you first to Massam, for a day or two — Sir George asked me, you remember." " Yes," said Mr. Trevor, slowly. " And it would be so nice for us to travel together," said Isabel. " Will you write to him, papa, and tell him when we could go ?" " I think, my love, we ought to wait until he writes to us," suggested Mr. Trevor. " Oh, I don't know. Say it would be con- venient for us to go on such and such a day," urged Isabel. " I would prefer to wait until I hear from him," again said the squire, rather stiffly. Isabel looked angry, but she said nothing. She knit her brows, and bit her red lips with her white teeth, and then, after considering a minute or so, she left her father's presence, going straight to her own room, where she at once sat down to compose a letter to Sir George Hamilton. She wrote as follows : — " Dear Sir George, — Some old friends of mine, the Featherstonee, wish me to visit them, and as they are near neighbours of BENEATH THE WAVE. 151 yours, I have been trying to persuade papa this afternoon to write to you to tell you that if you will allow us we we shall take Massam on our road, and look you up for a day or two. Thus I would secure for myself a travelling companion, for I dislike travelling alone so much, besides having the pleasure of seeing you again. But papa snubbed my proposal unmercifully, telling me to wait until we were asked, and making various other unpleasant comments ! So you see nothing is left for me but to appeal to your generosity. Will you write and invite us ? Ah, I know you will. Is it a bold thing of me to ask you ? Perhaps — ^but I feel as if we were quite old, old friends. — ^Yours very truly, Isabel Tbevor." When Sir George Hamilton received this letter he was sitting alone in his library. He was sad and gloomy, and he looked so. He got up after he had read Isabel's letter, and began walking slowly up and down the room, with his brows knitted and his lips com^ 152 BBNBATH THE WAVE. pressed. Yet this letter came as a sort of relief to him. He was a man whose own thoughts were ill-company, but still he shrank from seeking other companions. Now they were forced on him he thought, for he had not forgotten the claims which Isabel and her father had on his hospitaUty. Did she wish to see him again ? went on his reflec- tions. This bright creature, that no man could see without worshipping, " Ah — ^ah — she little knows ! " And Sir George gave a bitter sigh. But there could be but one answer to Such a letter as Isabel's, he thought ; and this answer Sir George speedily wrote. She was to name her own day, he told her, for coming to Massam, and his poor house would only be too much honoured by her presence there. He was, perhaps, unaware himself that he framed his sentences to Isabel in softer lan- guage than he would have done to any other woman in the world. Yet it was so. He saw in his mind's eye the beautiful face of which he had so often thought since his BENEATH THE WAVE. 153 xetum to his splendid but lonely home, as he penned the words. Isabel, at least, had not been forgotten by this reserved and appa- rently care-burdened man. She felt elated, almost triumphant, when she received this letter from Sir Greorge. So she had won, she thought ; for Isabel had immense faith in her own attractions, if they only had fair play. They would have &.ir play at Massam, she concluded, and, therefore, her heart felt fall of joy. Sir Greorge not only wrote to her, but also to the squire. Isabel was in her bed- room shortly after she had read Sir George's letter, mentally planning irresistible costumes, when she received a message from her father that he wished to speak to her, and when she went to him she found him sitting with an air of satisfaction and a letter lying open before him. "Isabel, my love," he said, addressing his daughter, "if you still wish to go to Massam, as you said you did a day or two -ago, you have now the opportunity of doing 154 BKKEATH THE WATE. 80. This is a letter firom Sir Greorge,'' and Mr. Trevor pointed to the open letter on the table, '^ containing a very courteously- expressed invitation for us both." *' Oh ! " said Isabel, and she took up Sir George's letter. There was no hint of the one that she had written to him. Sir George merely expressed a hope that Mr. Trevor and his daughter would now fulfil their promise, and visit him at Massam ; then followed a few well-chosen words of thanks for the kindness that he had received during his stay at Sanda. " It has come very opportunely, as you wish to visit your friends, the Featherstones," said Mr. Trevor. " Very," said Isabel, and she gave a little laugh. " If you will fix the time, I will write to Sir George to-day," went on Mr. Trevor. "Of course, Miss Marston will accompany you ?" ** There is no of course about it, papa," answered Isabel, brusquely. *'I see no reason why she should go." BENEATH THE WAVE. 155 "Nevertheless, there is a reason, Isabel," said Mr. Trevor. " You could not go to Sir George's without another lady." "What folly !" said Isabel. " Besides, the Featherstone girls will be so near." " I know nothing of the Misses Feather- stone," replied the squire, " but I am competent to judge of what will be the best arrangement for my own family, and I wish Miss Marston to accompany us." " She will only be in the way," retorted Isabel. " I wish it," repeated Mr. Trevor, magisterially. The Squire of Sanda, like most silly men, was obstinate. He had his own settled ideas, and he tenaciously clung to them. He was very indulgent to Isabel, and she had far more of her own way than was good for her ; but if he once fixed anything in his own mind there it remained, and he had now fixed that Hilda Marston should go to Massam. " How can you be so obstinate, papa ? " said Isabel, losing temper. 156 BE51L1TH THZ WATK. ^Mt love, firmoesB is not obstinacy," replied die squire. AIl Kow Ke respected himself at that moment ! What a great man he was, he thought — ao composed, and ret so firm. ^ I iroold not allow any woman to ruffle me/' he reflected. ^ What a tiresome, pompons old man ! " reflected Isabel Bat the squire got the best of it, for during the arswnent which ensued between them after these mutual reflections, Mr. Trevor informed his daughter that unless Miss Marston went to Sir Qeorge Hamilton's that he would not go. Thus, as Isabel could not visit Massam without her father's protection, she was forced, with a very bad grace, to give in. So Hilda Marston received an intimation during the day that she was expected to accompany Isabel into Yorkshire. This young person was anything but delighted with the idea. She was beginning to tire of her rdle of companionship, and to pine for BENEATH THE WAVE. 157 harder and inore independent work. *^ I am an absolute cipher here," she often thought. " Surely I could spend my life better than being so completely useless and despised as I am now." It was silly, she knew, for she was a sensible girl, but she had taken very much to heart the fact that Philip Hay ward had for- gotten to notice her on the day when she and Isabel had called at the parsonage. You see she had not been used to this kind of treatment. In her father s home, poor though it was, she was someone. A fondly-loved daughter for one thing ; an affectionate and favourite sister for another. So it was a great change. Isabel Trevor was not actually unkind to her, but she was not kind. She cared nothing about her : in fact, cared nothing about any woman. She would have given her her old dresses, but Hilda was too proud to accept them ; but she would have given her nothing that she had the slightest value for. Hilda, sensitive and tender-hearted, felt every moment her nature rise in 158 BENEATH THE WAVE. antagonism with the selfish, cold-hearted one with whom she was now continually thrown. She naturally was not blinded by Isabel's beauty. She even felt sometimes that she hated that beauty — ^the subtle, sensuous beauty that wiled every man's heart away. She therefore often thought of leaving Sanda. But there are wheels withinw heels. For poor Hilda there were her old home tios. Her sister ofl;en wrote to her to say how glad she was that she was so well settled, and then there was Ned — ^poor little Ned ! Were she to offend the squire by proposing to leave the Hall, would the squire continue his patronage to little Ned ? This meant feeding, clothing, and educating him, and who else was there to do it if Mr. Trevor turned awav ? All these things naturally influenced Hilda, but they did not reconcile her to her present life. Isabel Trevor, too, had allowed her to see very plainly that she did not think it necessary that Hilda should accompany them to Massam — not in words, perhaps, but still BENEATH THE WAVE. 159 Isabel had made her xinderstand^ and there were other reasons ako why she did not wish to go ; reasons which many a poor lady will well understand. The squire, however, had thought about these last reasons, and did his best to remove them. In fact, he had remembered that Hilda could scarcely go to Massam without a suitable dress or two ; and he, therefore, with some ostentation placed an envelope in her hand the day after they had decided to visit Sir George Hamilton. "Young ladies, I believe," he said, "always find that they ^ have nothing to wear' when they are about to pay visits, so I trust you will accept this trifle. Miss Marston ?" The Squire of Sanda was one of those men who made speeches which Would sound almost clever, or at least ordinary, from the lips of a clever man. From his they oppressed you with a sense of their vacuity. He, in feujt, clothed his limited ideas in very toler- able language. But it did not impose upon you somehow. You felt the hollowness 160 BENEATH THE WAYS. beneath^ just as you recognize ability in the simplest words. However, he meant to be kind to Hilda^ and therefore Hilda need not have blushed and looked as uncomfortable as she did when he giive her the envelope, " You are very kind," she faltered, " but I would rather not go to Massam." *' I wish you to go," said Mr. Trevor, in the tone in which, at the quarter sessions, he coudouiued small boys to be whipped for stealing turnips and men to be imprisoned for snaring hares. - But '^ hesitated Hilda. ** I wish you to go, and I wish you to appoiir wollnlressed," reiterated the squire; and, after this, what could the poor girl say ? Nothing, of course, and it may serve to illus- trate Hilda's character to describe what she did with the squire s gift. When she opened the envelope she found it contained twenty pounds — ^four clean, crisp, five pound notes. This seemed quite a large sum to Hilda at first, and to spend it all upon BENEATH THE WAVE. 161 herself was impossible to her nature. No, there was dear Marion, she thought, had long cx)veted a new jacket, and so five pounds found its way to her eldest sister. Then there was little Ned. He wanted a new suit sadly, Hilda decided, and thus another five pounds disappeared. She finally reserved ten pounds for herself, to buy two new dresses. Like most women, in fact, who are womanly in their ways, Hilda liked to be well dressed. She was a fine-looking, sweet-faced girl, though not a beauty, and dress, therefore, made a considerable difierence in her appear- ance. She had the disadvantage also of living with Isabel Trevor, who was always magnifi- cently dressed. Everything goes by com- parison, and many things which would have looked well in the quiet parsonage, which had been her old home, looked shabby beside the elegant and elaborate costumes which Isabel Trevor continually wore. But Hilda had good taste and knew what became her, and so she made excellent use of her ten pounds. The whole party left Sanda for Massam VOL. I. M 162 B£9SATH THS WATK about five days after Sir Ge(ages inTitation had been receired. Isabel TreTor was radiant and excited during their jonmey, and kept continually lau^iing and talking to her &ther and Hilda. '' I wonder if our firiend, the tutor, will be there ? " she said, alluding to Hayward. '' I scarcely think that Sir Greorge would invite him to meet us," remarked the squire. "Oh, but I assure you that Sir Greoige has invited him," replied Isabel " Not to meet us, of course, but to go for a long visit, and, indeed, it must be admitted that Sir George owes him every civiUty." And Isabel laughed. She knew quite well when she said this, that if they remained long enough at Massam, Hayward would be there when they were. He had paid his promised visit to the Hall, and Isabel had seen him. During this visit, partly for amusement, and partly because she had begun to like the tutor's thoughtful face, she had done her best to increase her power over him. She knew quiie well that he BKNEATH THE WAVE. "• 163 greatly admired her. She had seen and treasured up the parting look that he had given her before he had plunged into the sea, to try at her bidding to save Sir George Hamilton's life. She liked such looks as this ; looks which told of wasted hours, of restless pain ; of a man's life all turned to bitterness out of vain love for her. This may read like exaggeration, but it is not so. Nothing was so dear to Isabel Trevor as her vanity, and she cared not how many hearts she sacrificed as long as she gratified this leading passion. But she was ambitious also, and this feeling stirred strongly within her as they approached Sir George's splendid home and drove through the glorious woodland scenery by which it was surrounded. It was worth winning, Isabel thought, as she looked out of the luxurious carriage that they had found waiting for them at the station nearest to Massam Park. It was just growing dusk, but she could still see as they went down the long avenue how beautiful it was. Here was everything a woman wanted, Isabel reflected. 164 •beneath the wave. and she determined that her visit should not be in vain. Sir George was waiting on the broad terrace in the front of the house to receive them. The terrace was laid out with orna- mental flower-beds and vases, in the Italian style, and had a fine white marble fountain in the centre. Isabel saw this almost at a glance ; and she saw also that there was a faint flush on Sir George's usually pale face, as he advanced down the steps of the terrace and held out his hand in welcome, as he approached the door of the carriage. '* Well, we have arrived, Sir George," said Mr. Trevor, as he returned the baronet's greeting ; but Isabel said nothing. She only looked into Sir George's face, who gravely handed her out of the carriage and then ofiered her his arm to escort her up the steps of the terrace. Inside the house everything was aUke magnificent and comfortable. Even Mr. Trevor was impressed by the lofty hall and broad staircase, both of which were adorned BENEATH THE WATE. 165 with many fine paintings ; the wrought-iron balustrade of the staircase being beautifully painted and reheved with gold. Hilda Marston, who had never been in a house like this before, looked round in genuine admi- ration and even a Uttle awe. But Isabel Trevor held her head high and seemed to notice nothing. She did not wish Sir George to think that she was particularly struck with the splendour of his stately home. But no sooner were the two ladies alone after dinner than it was quite diflferent. Then Isabel ran from one room to another, admir- ing and commenting on the beautiful objects they contained. She was fond of china, and went into raptures over the magnificent collection of Sevres and Dresden, and was kneeling before a locked cabinet in the small drawing-room, which contained precious stones, trying if she could open it, when Sir Greorge and her father rejoined them. For a moment, when Sir Greorge saw her occupa- tion, a frown contracted his brow, but the next he advanced towards }i6r. 166 BENEATH THE WAVE. " That cabinet is always kept locked," he said, addressing her, " but I will send to the housekeeper for the key." " I was trying to get a closer peep at your treasures," answered Isabel, not without some slight embarrassment, as she rose from her rather undignified position. When the key of the cabinet was brought, Sir George unlocked it and took out the gems, one after another, for Isabel's inspection. "Was your mother a collector of these things ? " asked Isabel, as she handled and admired the stones. " No," answered Sir George, " my poor mother cared little or nothing about them. This collection, which is of great value, I believe, was made by the Lady Hamilton who preceded her. My father, as perhaps you know, was not born the heir of Massam. It belonged to the elder branch of the family, who all in a most singular manner died, and thus my father became its. possessor." *' A lucky fatality for him," laughed Isabel, showing her white teeth. BENEATH THE WAVE. 167 " It seemed so then/' said Sir George, "yet perhaps had I " And then he abruptly paused. " Been poor ? " suggested Isabel, with another laugh. *^Yes, been poor," went on Sir George, gravely, " I might have been a better man." *' Or a worse," said Isabel, lightly. " I must admit I prefer the temptations of wealth to those of poverty." Sir George made no reply to this. He was standing looking at her fixedly. She was holding a great sparkling unset sapphire in the palm of her slender hand, and it struck Sir George for the first time at that moment that there was something in the expression of her lovely face that he would rather not have seen there. " Isn't this splendid ? " said Isabel, return- ing to her admiration of the gem in her hand and moving it so as to catch its glitter in the light of the chandelier. " If you admire it so much, I will have it set for you," said Sir George. 168 BENEATH THE WAVE. " Will you ? " answered Isabel, looking up delightedly, for she was a woman who loved gifts. " Ah, how good you are 1 " Upon this Sir George" gave rather a harsh little laugh. "Where are your conservatories?'' asked Isabel. " You know I love flowers — ^will you show me some ? " " I fear they have been neglected since my poor mother's death," said Sir George ; "but, if you wish, you can see a small conservatory which the morning room opens into. The others are not lighted." '^ I do wish," answered Isabel. " I like to see all over a place at once." " Come, then," said Sir George. But as Isabel prepared to follow him he turned courteously to Hilda Marston, who was standing in another part of the room looking at some books lying on the table. " Will you go too, Miss Marston ? " he asked. Hilda gave one glance into Isabel's face, and reading there strong objections to this proposal, she answered with a snnle, glancing BENEATH THE WAVE. 169 ^t Mr. Trevor, who was calmly sleeping in an easy chair, with the Times over his face, *^ No — I will see them some other time," she said. "Just now I will stay and keep Mr. Trevor company." And she gave a little nod at the sleeping squire. So Isabel followed Sir George alone, through the still corridors of the house, until they came to the left wing, in which the morning room was situated, and from which they passed into the conservatory beyond. There was nothing particularly remarkable about it, and after Isabel had walked round it, she began gathering herself a bouquet of the best flowers it contained. " Don t you care for flowers ? " she asked^ looking at Sir George with a smile. " No; I don t know," he answered, absently. ^' I don't know what I do care for, I think." Then Isabel laid down her flowers and went up to him, looking at him with her bright, beautiful eyes. "What makes you always so sad. Sir George ? " she said. " And so — ^indifferent ? " 170 BENEATH THE WAVE. She almost whispered the last word, but Sir George heard it. ^^ I am not indifferent," he answered, quickly. " I wish I were." " Then you are sad ? " said Isabel. Sir George turned away his head for a moment, and then he said — " I must try not to seem so, at least. Miss Trevor, when you are here." Isabel felt disappointed by this reply- . " Oh," she said, " pray do not assume any false gaiety on my account." And she threw back her head a^ if she were annoyed. Upon this. Sir George looked at her kindly. " I don't wish you to be sad," he said ; " you, who are so young and bright." " And I don't wish you to be sad," answered Isabel, with a sudden change of mood, and in the soft, sweet tones she could so well assume. *' You — who are my friend," and she put her hand half coyly into his. As she did so. Sir George took it, holding it for a moment tightly clasped in his own. Then, suddenly (before Isabel could speak), BENEATH THE WAVE. 17 1 his expression changed, and he bit his Up and dropped her hand abruptly. " Let us rejoin the others," he said, almost coldly, "the air is chill for you here. Miss Trevor." *^ I think so, too," answered Isabel, haughtily; and angry and annoyed she re- turned to her father and Hilda Marston, in the small drawing-room. She felt she had failed, and failure was very bitter to Isabels vain heart. CHAPTER X. A FIRST PROPOSAL. Thb next morning at breakfast, Sir Greorge addressed Isabel with a smile, " Since you have been good enough to honour Massam with your presence. Miss Trevor," he said, " I think I should try to make it a little more amusing for you than it generally is. You know my neighbours, the Featherstones, I believe ? " " Oh, yes," answered Isabel, rather care- lessly, " the girls were at school with me." " Well," went on Sir George, " I think I had better begin to send out some invitations at once. I have been so long away that I have almost forgotten everyone — ^but I can apply to Hannaway." BENEATH THE WAVE. 173 ^' Don't trouble to have people here on our account," said Isabel. "To begm with, I hate country dinner-parties. If you would give a ball, perhaps." But Sir George shook his head at the suggestion. " No," he said, " no, I could not do that.'* " Then pray don't have any dinner parties." went on Isabel, "for I consider them a most dreary waste of time. I know what it is to sit and Usten to the interesting catalogue of domestic ailments with which the model mother regales her friends after dinner. Then there is the scandalous dowager, picking little holes with great rehsh in the coats of her neighbours ; and last, and not least for poor me, there are insipid girls, awkward girls, and tiresome girls, all yawning behind their fans, until the generally not over brilliant speci- mens of your sex once again appear upon the scene." " And you leave out the charming girls," said Sir George, with a laugh. " Pray, what do they do under the circumstances ? " " The charming girls," answered Isabel, 174 BENEATH THE WAVE. boldly and brightly, ^* to whom, of course, I belong, don't like it at all. They detest stupid men, however large their rent-rolls are. They weary of tiresome girls, however pretty their faces are ; and they hate scandalous dowagers, because they know the more charming they are, that the dowagers will tear them to pieces with greater satis- faction." " My dear Isabel," said Mr. Trevor, who was buttering his toast, '^ surely you are giving Sir George a very exaggerated des- cription ? " " I could not exaggerate the weariness with which such society as we usually meet about Sanda inspires me with," said Isabel. "Oh, the long dreary drives, and the long dreary dinners I have gone through ! I envy you. Sir George, to have been out of it all so long." " Then you did not go into much society abroad, Sir George ?" asked Mr. Trevor. " No, I kept out of it," answered Sir George, " as I mean to keep out of it here. BENEATH THE WAVE. 175 But," he added, " I thought, perhaps, to amuse Miss Trevor and Miss Marston.'^ " Leave Miss Trevor and Miss Marston to amuse themselves," said Isabel, lightly, as Sir George paused. " May I arrange the programme for to-day ? " " Certainly, most certainly," replied Sir George. *' Then I propose to spend all the morning in the grounds and in the park," went on Isabel. ''The lovely peep I had this morning out of my bed-room window was quite enough to make me long for more. So if it will not weary you. Sir George " " It will not weary me," he answered ; and he thought at that moment — who would ever weary of a woman like this ? Yet, at times, she repelled him. He re- membered his mother's gentle words, even when Isabel was giving her satirical descrip- tion of county society. She, the dead mother, had seldom spoken of other's fail ings or other's sins. Sir George was bitter and satirical himself at times, but somehow 176 BENEATH THE WAVE. he loved not to heax harsh words on Isaber& lovely lips. But she fascinated him. It was her beauty, and he knew it, that gave her this strange power over him ; a power that he nevertheless sometimes tried to resist. But not that morning. Massam lay bathed in golden sunshine, sunshine which fell on the great trees, on the green glades, on the distant woods. These, rich in the tawny mellow tints of autumn, stirred and swayed in the fresh breeze, while the falling leaves stole softly downwards, to wither in the misty undergrowth below. Through the grounds first, and then through the woods. Sir George led Isabel. He was her host, he told himself, and so it was his duty to pay her every attention in his power. But time did not lag that morning for Sir George. Into the dim distance, for a few hours at least, faded the bitter past. Isabel's cheeks were flushed, and her eyes sparkled as she met Sir George's earnest and admiring gaze. He was worth winning, she thought. This man, so cold and reserved to BENEATH THE WAVE. 177 others, who sought not the love of either women or men. Would she win ? Ah, she was very fair, and had a winning tongue, and knew her power. Sir George, gloomy and taciturn as he was, was yet a man of deep and passionate feelings. A man who could love and hate — a man who had loved and hated only too well. Behind them, but at a considerable dis- tance, walked the Squire of Sanda and Hilda Marston. The squire, for him, was talkative and agreeable, and Hilda was absolutely enjoying her walk. This may seem strange, as her companion was Mr. Trevor ; but our Hilda had other companions on that bright morning. These were her sweet thoughts, her good resolves, her pretty castles in the air. These imaginary castles, wherein Hilda dwelt in the future and was rich, were gener- ally inhabited also by the other members of her family. What ponies little Ned rode in them that she had given him ! What dresses Marion was clothed in, and what sums of money she slipped into Paul's not unwilling VOL. I. N 178 BENEATH THE WAVE. hand! From the contemplation of these airy gifts she was, however, recalled by Mr .Trevor's slow, pompous voice. " Certainly, Sir George is a most fortmiate man," said the squire. "Yet a more melancholy-looking man I never beheld," replied Hilda ; '^ Sir George always appears to me as if he were struggling against some settled grief." " He should get married," said the squire, with an affectation of ease in his voice and manner. '^Perhaps that would do him no good," answered Hilda at random, who had gone back into one of her air castles. " I think," said Mr. Trevor, " that every man is better for being married. Home ties are the surest foundation for settled happiness." "Yes," said Hilda, who was considering what colour Ned's first pony should be. " Of course there are many things to be taken into consideration," continued the squire. "In contemplating so serious a BENEATH THE WAVE. 179 step, a man must, of course, consider his first family " ''Yes," said Hilda, still mentally contem- plating the pony. " But if he sees a prospect — a reasonable prospect," went on Mr. Trevor, "of his daughter, or daughters, as the case may be, settling in life, I think that a man — a man with proper means and settled home — ^is justified in again contemplating marriage, with a suitable person." '' Of course," said Hilda, whose mind was still wandering in the air. " I have thought a great deal lately on this subject," continued Mr. Trevor, "and as I think that I may now reasonably expect that Isabel will marry " Hilda did not speak as the squire paused. She heard him say something about Isabel marrying, but as she considered this a delicate subject at present, she was discreetly silent. " I need not — I suppose — remind you," again continued Mr. Trevor, " that all this is in the strictest confidence. In fact, had I not 180 BENEATH THE WAVE. the greatest dependence on your character, I would not have approached the subject, but I have particular reasons for domg so." " Yes ? " once more said Hilda, now really listening to what the squire was saying. " These reasons, my dear Miss Marston, I wish you to understand,^ went on the squire, a little nervously. "In fact — ah, well — I again contemplate marriage." "Oh!" said Hilda, thoughtftdly. "Who can it be ? " she was mentally wondering. " Shall I lose my home ? " was her next thought. " I have observed with pleasure," said the squire, after clearing his throat, "that you are not one of those yoimg women who make marriage the chief object of their lives, and endeavour to attract attention wherever they go. But though such aims appear to me* to be frivolous, and even degrading, there is no doubt but that a woman is better settled in life." " I suppose so," said Hilda, as the squire again paused. BENEATH THE WAVE. 181 ''There is no doubt of it," reiterated the squire, magisterially. " And — now, my dear Miss Marston," he added, in a milder tone, " I hope I have made you understand ? " " I — do not quite understand," said Hilda, nervously. " I ^wish you to understand in fact— — that I well, contemplate marrying you," said Mr. Trevor, and Hilda absolutely started, and the next moment flushed deeply, as the squire declared his intentions. " I was prepared for a little surprise," con- tinued Mr. Trevor, affably. " The attentions that I have hitherto shown you have been confined to protecting friendship ; but I have not been imobservant of your character during the time you have resided under my roof. And I have come to the conclusion," added the squire, " that, as you made an excellent daughter to your poor father, you will make an excellent wife for me." Of what was Hilda thinking as the squire concluded his speech ? My readers, will you blame her when I tell you that she was 182 BENEATH THE WAVE. absolutely thinking over his proposal ? Has anyone, I wonder, who will read this story of Hilda's life ever been entirely penniless ? Mind, this girl had not one shilling of her own. The clothes she wore belonged to the squire (at least his money had paid for them), and he had paid for little Med's clothes and little Ned's education — and if Hilda married him all her castles in the air might come true. AU— no, not all, for the imaginary beneficent giver of the air castles had always been loved by Hilda, and she did not love Mr. Trevor — and yet Before them, in the winding paths of the woods, two figures were just visible. These were Sir George and Isabel, who also were thinking of the future, though not in so direct a manner as the squire and Hilda. Hilda looked at them, hesitated, and blushed. If Isabel were to marry Sir George, her home at Sanda (unless she married the squire) was lost to her. And then there was little Ned " May I think over what you have said ? ** BENEATH THE WAVE. 183 she faltered. "Will you give me time to consider ? " "Certainly," replied the squire, graciously. " I approve of haste in nothing. This day fortnight, my dear Miss Marston, I will ask for your answer. In the meanwhile," he addedj with a self-satisfied smile, " I will permit myself to hope." CHAPTER XI. THE FBATHERSTONES. Thus the first morning that she spent at Massam Park proved a momentous one for Hilda Marston. The proposal that she had received was her first proposal, and Mr. Trevor was her first declared lover, though she had several admirers during the old days when she had lived at her father's parsonage. It was a momentous day also for Isabel Trevor. She had not wasted her time during her long walk through the autumnal woods. Sir George came in from that walk excited, if not happy. His eyes involuntarily followed Isabel's tall figure wherever she went, and she, conscious of that surveillance, looked even more bright and beautiful than usual. BENEATH THE WAVE. 185 Hilda, on the contrary, was embarrassed and silent during lunch after this eventful morning. She had not made up her mind, and she felt as if she could scarcely look the squire in the face, Mr. Trevor, on the other hand, was full of complacency. All seemed to be going on rightly between Isabel and Sir George he thought, and Hilda now understood his intentions. His mind was also perfectly at ease about her answer. She was a sensible girl he believed, and she would make a sen- sible wife. We can imagine, therefore, the squire's satisfaction. He scarcely remem- bered the long years which really lay between himself and the girl he contemplated marry- ing. He was the Squire of Sanda, he remem- bered, a man of wealth and position, and he was in his own estimation an excellent match for Hilda. Indeed, he thought that he was acting in a most noble and honourable manner. '' I have chosen her neither for wealth nor even for high birth," reflected the squire during lunch, looking at the sweet, blushing, embar- rassed face opposite to him. " She will, no 186 BENEATH THE WAVE. doubt, appreciate the generosity with which I have acted." His complacent reflections and Isabel's lively conversation were, however, alike pre- sently interrupted by the arrival of visitors. These consisted of the Misses Featherstone (Isabel's school-companions) and their father, Mr. Antony Featherstone, of Featherstone. When their cards were brought in, Isabel asked if they might be ushered into the small dining-room where Isabel, her father, Hilda^ and their host were having lunch. To this proposal Sir George courteously agreed, and presently two fine, tall, ruddy-haired girls, made their appearance, followed by jovial, easy Antony Featherstone. The girls hurried up to Isabel and embraced and kissed her ardently, embraces and kisses which Isabel returned both scantily and coldly. Then Mr. Featherstone was presented to Isabel, who received his bold looks of admiration graciously, and condescended to smile at the free-spoken Yorkshireman s not over-refined remarks. * BENEATH THE WAVE. 187 '* My girls have often told me about you," he said, looking at Isabel with his once hand- some eyes, ** but I'm accustomed to hear them exaggerate, so I didn't believe all they said," ** And what did they tell you about me, Mr. Featherstone ?" asked Isabel, not without a shade of coquetry in her manner. " What your glass tells you every time you look in it,'' answered this good-for-nothing Antony Featherstone, and a frown crossed Sir George's brow both when he heard the question ^id answer. " Well, Sir George," went on Mr. Feather- stone, ttyrning to their host, " I hope you've come to settle among us, now that you've really got home. I did myself the honour of leaving a card at the West Lodge a day or two ago, but they said you were from home. And I must heartily congratulate you also. Sir George," continued the voluble Mr. Featherstone, " on the wonderftd escape you had a short time ago. Hannaway told me the particulars of your rather unpleasant dip in the sea." 188 BENEATH THE WAVE. To this speech. Sir Greorge made no reply, only gravely bowing his head at its conclusion. "But he was a lucky fellow, wasn't he. Miss Trevor?" went on the unabashed Antony, "to be fished out at your hall door. By Jove ! I'd run the risk — shipwreck and all — ^if I'd such a chance." And Mr. Featherstone laughed loudly and pulled his brown whiskers, in which a shade oi grey was now just beginning to appear. He was a fine specimen this of a reckless, good-natured, worthless man. Sometimes, indeed, he took a fit of repentance in the morning, when he had a very bad headache ; but usually he forgot lost opportunities, lost honour, and reputation alike. He was hope- lessly in debt, so hopelessly that he never tried to get out of it. Instead of doing so, he spent the mornings in playing billiards and drinking brandy and soda water and his afternoons generally in doing nothing at alL When the day of reckoning comes to such men as this, they generally consider them- selves unfortunate. They say, "Look how BENEATH THE WAVE. 189 80-and-so has got on ; how lucky he has been/' or some such envying words. They forget that " so-and-so " never wasted his mornings or his afternoons. When they were playing, " so-and-so " was at work ; and thus it comes to pass that when the player drifts into dis- honoured age, the worker sits down to rest in peace. Sir George, who knew from Hannaway all about Mr. Featherstone's embarrassments, felt especially disgusted when the jovial hospitable Antony began pressing him, Mr. Trevor and Miss Trevor, to go over and dine at Featherstone on the following Thursday. "I never dine out, Mr. Featherstone. I go into no society," said Sir George, coldly. " But it's a bad plan, my dear fallow," was the careless answer. " One gets into the sulks and mopes if one doesn't see a friend now and then, to cheer one up. Come, surely you will follow where such bright eyes lead you?" And Mr. Featherstone bowed low to Isabel, who laughed a light laugh at these words. " I, of course, do not wish to interfere 190 B£N£ATH THE WAYS. with any engagement that Mr. or Miss Trevor may form," replied Sir Greorge, yet more coldly. "Oh dear, Isabel must come!" cried the Misses Featherstone, almost together. " We have lots of things to talk about, haven't we, Isabel ? But when are you coming to us for good ? When are you coming to stay at Featherstone ?" Isabel looked at Sir Greorge before she answered these questions, but Sir Greoige turned away his« head. He was, indeed, exceedingly annoyed that Isabel should smile on a man like Mr. Featherstone. Isabel, the practised coquette, now blushed and cast down her eyes. " Sir Greorge, I suppose, is already tired of us ?" she said, hesitatingly, " so perhaps — " " Nay," said Sir George, quickly, a sudden flush dyeing his usually pale face, as Isabel paused. "You know that is not so. Miss Trevor. As long as you will honour my dull house with your presence, need I say how heartily welcome you are ? And need I say BENEATH THE WAVE. 191 also," he added, with a courteous bow to the Misses Featherstone, 'Hhat all your friends are equally welcome V " And yet you won't come to us T said Lucinda Featherstone (the second girl), with her good-natured smile. "I go nowhere," answered Sir George, " I am, as you know, a complete wanderer, and have lived too long out of civilized society to care now to go into it. But do not allow me," he went on, " to interfere in any way with your arrangements. I trust that you will come here as often as you wish during Miss Trevor's visit." " Well, we'll take you at your word," said Lucinda, smiling again, ^' and when you are tired of us you must turn us out." "Very well," said Sir George, almost smiling. Then presently the girls, at Isabel's proposal, retired into the smaU drawing-room^ the Featherstones going into raptures over the treasures it contained. '^ I remember poor mamma talking about the china," said Lucinda. " But for years 192 BENEATH THE WAVE. and years no one has ever seen it. Lady Hamilton, Sir George's mother, received no one after the first year or two that Sir Greorge remained abroad." " How strange that he should remain abroad so long ! " said Isabel, inquiringly, looking at Lucinda, who laughed and nodded her head. '^ People say there was a reason," answered Lucinda. " So mind, " she added the next minute, half in fun, and yet with a touch of warning in her voice, " don't fall in love with Sir George, for he is known not to be a marrying man." '* People always know such wonderful things," said Isabel, coldly. " Why, may I ask, Lucinda, is Sir George supposed not to be a marrying man ? " " Because people say he is married already," answered Lucinda, promptly. " Ever since I was grown up, and able to understand things, there has been a mystery about Sir George Hamilton. It was said, you know, that it broke his mother's heart, whatever it BENEATH THE WAVE. 193 was. At all events, he never returned home during her lifetime." "It is a strange story/' said Isabel, thoughtfully. *'Yes, and he is a strange man. Hand- some, isn't he, though, and it's such a jolly place ! I know of no place to be compared to Massam." " It is a fine place," answered Isabel, and she went to the window to look out. Yes, it was a fine place she was thinking, and perhaps she was trying to be its mistress when Sir George had no power to offer to make her so. " He admires me, I am certain," went on Isabel's reflections. " Ah f well, we shall see." The visit of the Featherstones ended in Isabel, Mr. Trevor, and Hilda Marston promismg to dine at Featherstone on the following day. Sir George again declined to avail himself of Mr. Featherstone's hospi- tality, and the Misses Featherstone during their drive home declared that they were heartily glad that he had done so. VOL. I. o 194 BENEATH THE WAVE. '^ We'll be much jollier without him," said Lucinda. "It makes one dull to look at him," de- clared Patty, the eldest daughter. " And with all his money I " said Mr. Featherstone. " Why, if I'd a third of it I'd be the jolliest dog alive 1 " " I gave Isabel Trevor a hint," said Lucinda, with a little nod. " You don't think she has any idea of him ? " asked Mr. Featherstone. "I don't think" answered Lucinda^ with another nod, *' I'm sure." " Pooh ! " said Mr. Featherstone, " she needn't, then. But," he added, " there's one thing I tell you, she's the handsomest woman I ever saw ! " " Indeed, papa !" said Patty. " Have you lost your heart, then ? " "As for heart, my dear, at my age," answered the reckless Antony, "it doesn't trouble me much. But take her altogether, figure and face, she's the finest woman I ever saw, and if old Trevor would come down handsomely I'd marry her to-morrow." BBNEATH THE WAYS. 195 Both the girls laughed at this. In their way they were fond of this reckless good-for- nothing. They laughed when he came home " screwed," as they called it ; laughed at him, and with him, but they would have clung to him whatever had befallen him. They were not bad girls, in fact, but had been brought up in a bad atmosphere. " We can always be stable boys, whatever happens," Lucinda used to say ; and they were no doubt not unfitted for that capacity, for they knew as much about horses and stables as most men of their age. Men called them jolly, and kind women pitied them for their motherless and unprotected condition, and unkind women called them '*fast." The truth was, they were both '* fast " and ''jolly," but there was something left in them for kind women to love still. One of these good quaUties was their real affection for their reckless, good- looking father. " Dear old boy," Patty said, in answer to her father's proposal to marry Isabel (if Mr. Trevor would come down handsomely), " don't you think of her. Lu told you once 196 BENEATH THE WAVE. before, didn't she, that Isabel Trevor was the vainest and handsomest girl she ever saw? Well, nothing truer was ever said. When she marries, or I'm much mistaken, shell marry for ambition." "Pooh! How can one girl tell what another will do?" said the once handsome Antony. He was a good-looking fellow still he was thinking at that moment — and why shouldn't he "go in " for an heiress as well as another ? Patty and Lu, you see, were wiser. They saw the " dear old man's " face was red and his hair grizzled, and that generally an odour of brandy lingered about him. If it had been for his good they would not have minded his marrying, but they were vexed to think of his making a fool of himself about Isabel Trevor, Yet they did everything in their power to entertain her handsomely on the following day. There were frequent unpleasantnesses with the village butcher at Featherstone Hall, and he did not call for orders as regu- BENEATH THE WAVE. 197 larly as such good customers as they seemed to be might have expected; but on this occasion Patty and Lu exerted themselves, and everything necessary appeared. It was astonishing with how Uttle ready money these girls got on. True, there was nearly always plenty of game in the larder, and ducks and chickens and pigs about the premises. Spiteful people said that Patty and Lu Featherstone reared chickens and ducks, and sold them in private to a carrier, who re-sold them to the poultry dealers, and that thus their dress and entertainments might be accounted for. If it were so, it was no disgrace to Patty and Lu, who could not help their reckless father having involved them in such difficulties as they found them- selves placed in. They did their best also in inviting guests to meet Isabel and her father. On such a short invitation this was very difficult, and, spite of all their exertions, the party dwindled down to the vicar of the parish and his wife, and his wife's half brother, Capt. Warrington. 198 BENEATH THE WATE. The vicar of the parish, the Rev. James Woodford, is easily described. He was a meek little man, with weak hair, eyes, and voice. His opinions on all religious subjects were influenced by his bishop, and on aU domestic subjects by his wife. His wife was a tall, slender young woman, with light hair, and insignificant features, who evidently thought herself a beauty. She was the daughter of a colonel in the army, and had lived much in garrison towns, and now found the vicarage at Featherstone almost intolerably dull. Yet the vicarage was the prettiest old house imaginable, covered with ivy, and standing amid its old- fashioned fertile garden and grounds. Any sensible woman might have made herself happy there, with her husband and children ; but Mrs. Woodford was not sensible. She had married poor Mr. Woodford because she could get nobody else ; and it was, therefore, plainly her duty to have made the best of him and his surroundings. But she did not do this. She grumbled at the want of BENEATH THE WATB. 199 society, and grumbled at the society when she was asked into it. Thus she was not popular, and happened, as usual, to be dis- engaged when the Featherstones' invitation to meet the Trevors and Hilda Marston arrived. Captain Warrington, her brother, deserves a paragraph to himself. He was only Mrs. Woodford's half-brother, and his mother had been very rich, and her mother very poor. This, of course, made a great social difference between them. In fact. Miss Selina War- rington married a country parson, and Hugh Warrington went into the Life Guards. He was a remarkably handsome man ; tall and straight, and wonderfully well-made, while his features were singularly regular, and his expression good. "But I have freckles,*' he once said pathetically, to a lady on her tellmg him that he ought to make a splendid photograph. These freckles, however, of which he com- plained were not visible on the clear, brown skin to any eyes but his own. But this 200 BENEATH THE WAVE. speech may serve to describe what he was. He affected, in fact, to be languid and con- ceited, but a good judge of character saw through the affectation, marking the good- tempered satire that lurked in the handsome eyes and stole round the corners of the full handsome lips. He was between twenty- eight and thirty when Isabel Trevor first met him, and she was instantlv struck when he entered the Featherstones' drawing-room by his great personal attractions. The drawing-room and everything about Featherstone Hall was shabby. The poor girls had no money to buy new curtains and covers with. Their own dress was procured with difficulty, and so they could not afford to adorn the old house. Yet they were as hospitable and jolly as if their purses were as full as their hearts were light. They made the best of their situation, if Mrs. Woodford did not. They were charmed, too, to have got Captain Warrington to dine with them. Captain Warrington, indeed, was a rare visitor to his brother-in-law's vicarage, and BENEATH THE WAVE. 201 had only run down for a couple of days at the earnest and even pathetic entreaties of his sister, to act as godfather to her little newly- born son. Indeed, such pathetic terms had Mrs. Woodford used when entreating her brother to come that the good-natured soldier felt he could not resist them ; and, armed with a silver goblet and various presents, he had arrived at the vicarage on the day previous to the one on which the Featherstones gave their entertainment. Thus the Guardsman was a lucky and unhoped-for addition to the party. Isabel Trevor, who had gone unwil- lingly, expecting to be bored, brightened up at the sight of him, and felt annoyed when her elderly red-faced host oflFered his arm to conduct her to the dining-room. Mr. Trevor was requested to take in Mrs. Woodford; Captain Warrington, Patty Featherstone ; and the poor little vicar had to oflFer an arm to both Lucinda Featherstone and Hilda Marston. '^ IVe got more than my share of good things," he said, nervously, as he endeavoured 202 BENEATH THE WAVE. to hold his thin arms at the same level with the tall Lu on one side, and the middle- heighted Hilda on the other. *' The Church always does,** laughed jovial Ailtony Featherstone ; and the poor vicar gave a meek little giggle in reply. The Featherstones had the art of makinof things go oflF pleasantly. They were lively, talkative, and rather noisy, and they therefore overpowered Mrs. Woodford's complaints, made to Mr. Trevor in her thin high-pitched voice, of the want of society at Featherstone, and drew out Captain Warrington, who, in his affected drawl, told some good stories with a considerable amount of spirit and humour. In the meanwhile, Mr. Featherstone was making, or rather attempting to make, love to Isabel. Poor Mr. Featherstone ! The compliments he paid were very coai'se comph- ments, and the love he made was not suited to such a woman as Isabel. She might have been amused with him for a few minutes if she had had nothing else to do, but she was not amused at him leering at her with his BENEATH THE WATB. 203 bloodshot eyes before Captain Hugh Warring- ton. She therefore snubbed him unmercifully. Captain Hugh saw this, and appreciated it, and when the gentlemen rejoined the ladies in the drawing-room he sank at once languidly down on the couch by Isabel's side. I may talk to you, may I not T he asked. Yes," replied Isabel, smiling, and opening her large fan with a jerk. " Thank you," said Captain Hugh. " Do you mean to stay long in this part of the country ?" asked Isabel. *' I came for two days," answered the hand- some Guardsman, "but if I find it agreeable I can remain longer." *' Perhaps you will find it agreeable," said Isabel, smiling again. Perhaps I shall," said Captain Warrington, and perhaps — as I understand we are neigh- bours — ^we may sometimes see each other during the next few days ? " In such common-place words did Isabel begin her acquaintance with Captain Hugh Warrington. But then it must be admitted 204 BENEATH THE WAVE. that most of our acquaintances begin in common-place and ^ uninteresting language. But she admired him. He was young and handsome ; and instead of Sir George's cloudy brow and moody manner, he was Kvely, easily amused, and apparently as well pleased with Isabel's society as she was with his. Mr. Trevor fidgeted and frowned when he heard Isabel's low laugh ring again and again through the shabbily furnished draw- ing-room. Good heavens ! he thought, was this foolish girl going to upset all his calculations and throw away such a fine position as she now had the chance of by her vain folly ? He looked uneasily at Hilda, but Hilda's eyes were cast down, and gave no answering glance- Then he crossed the room and went to her side. ** Who is that person," he said, " with whom Isabel appears to be carrying on such a very animated conversation ?" *' He is the vicar's brother-in-law, I believe,** answered Hilda. BENEATH THE WAVE. 205 ''She is extremely injudicious/' said Mr. Trevor, in a tone that Hilda well understood. Mr. Trevor expected she would become his wife Hilda knew from that tone, and her face flushed and her heart beat quickly when she heard it. After this there was music, Lucinda Feather- stone playing one of the old pieces she had learnt at school, and which Isabel Trevor remembered so well, as she informed Captain Warrington in a half whisper. Then there was conversation again, more or less animated, and by-and-bye Mr. Trevor rose, and after looking at his watch, proposed to Isabel to order the carriage. *' Is it time to go?" replied Isabel, glancing up at her father. " The evening seems to have passed very quickly somehow." " It is a quarter to eleven," said the squire, stiffly. "Pray stay the quarter," said Captain Warrington, addressing the squire; ''the evening has seemed so short." " It is quite time to go," answered the 206 BENEATH THE WAVE. squire, yet more stiffly; and Isabel gave a little shrug of her fine shoulders. "You see what a tyrant I have to deal with," she said, smiling at Captain Warring- ton. " How do you return to the vicarage ?" she went on. "As my worthy brother-in-law has not been amongst the lucky servants of the Church, I suppose we must walk," answered Captain Hugh Warrington, also shrugging his shoulders. " But is it a fine evening ? " said IsabeL ** If it rains, or if Mrs. Woodford and you will accept a seat in the Massam carriage, there is plenty of room for us all." " Scarcely, I think, my dear Isabel," said Mr. Trevor, repressively. " See if it rains," said Isabel to Captain Warrington, ignoring her father's remark. " It rains," said Captain Hugh, solemnly, after he had inspected the weather through the window, and then returned to Isabel's side. Upon which Isabel went up to the parson's wife. BENEATH THE WAVE. 207 *' Mrs. Woodford," she said, addressing this lady, who was fanning herself disconso- lately, " your brother tells me it rains, so I trust that you will accept a seat in th6 Massam carriage." " I'm sure if it will not inconvenience you I shall feel exceedingly obliged. I am so unaccustomed to this kind of thing. I feel it so much." And Mrs. Woodford sighed. *'But, my dear," said poor little Wood- ford, advancing towards his wife and rubbing his hands together, " there are so many of us " " You can walk," replied Mrs. Woodford ; and so it was finally arranged. The parson, with the Massam footman behind him, walked to the vicarage, which was only about a quarter of a mile distant from Featherstone Hall ; the squire and the three ladies went inside the carriage, and Captain Hugh Warrington sat beside the coachman. It was a miserable drive for Hilda Marston. She sat next Mr. Trevor, on the back seat of the carriage, and Mr. Trevor had the 208 BENEATH THE WAVE. audacity to take hold of her hand ! The poor girl turned red and then pale. She dared not take away her hand — ^the poor little hand that was not by any means at home in the rich man s clasp. '^ Oh, what shall I do ? " Hilda was thinking, " what shall I do ? " She knew what she ought to do, but that meant giving up home and help for little Ned. So she sat still, while Mrs. Woodford kept com- plaining, in her thin, high-pitched voice, of the society which, as a country clergyman s wife, she was forced to endure, complaints of which, however, Isabel took but scant notice. At last the carriage stopped at the gate of the vicarage, and Captain Hugh Warrington descended from his seat by the coachman and opened the carriage door to assist his sister out of it. " Good-bye, Miss Trevor," he said, after he had performed this duty, holding out his hand to Isabel. "Good-bye," she answered, and that was all ; but something in the way they both BENEATH THE WAVE. 209 spoke made Mr. Trevor more uneasy than he had been in the drawing-room. In the meanwhile, at Massam, Sir George was restlessly awaiting their arrival. The great house had felt doubly desolate to him during their absence. Isabel's presence there for the la«t few days had filled his life with a new excitement at least, and as he wandered up and down the library he was beginning to shape into form the vague feelings with which, in spite of himself, she had inspired him. " If she only loved me," he was thinking. He knew enough of women to know that when they love they will forgive much ; and Isabel had done her best during the last few days to make Sir George think that he was anything but indiflferent to her. " But perhaps it is Massam she thinks of,'* presently thought Sir George with some bitterness, — Massam, the splendid home, that now seemed no home to him. " But I have no right to marry," he reflected the next minute, "none, none — and yet she is so beautiful !" VOL. I. P 210 BENEATH THE WAVE. Yes, there it was. It was her beauty, and but her beauty, that bewitched him. Sir George felt distrust in her, even now. The subtle, God-given instinct, with which we recognize truth, warned him already; but another instinct carried him on. She fasci- nated him, in fact, just as she fascinated Philip Hayward, and almost every other man she had tried to win. When Sir George heard the sound of the carriage wheels announce the return of the party from Featherstone, he went down at once to the hall to receive his guests. For his amusement, Isabel by-and-bye gave a satirical account of their entertainment, to which Sir George listened with a smile. ''And who is Captain Warrington?" he asked. "A very handsome young man," replied Isabel, smiling. ''A forward person, I thought," said Mr. Trevor, so testily that Sir George remarked it. ** Well, you shall judge for yourself," said BENEATH THE WAVE. 211 Isabel^ still smiling and looking at Sir George, "for Captain Warrington is coming here to call upon me. He complained so piteously of the dulness of his life at his sister's house that I took compassion on him — so I hope you won't turn him out, Sir George ? " "Any fiiend of yours will always be wel- come here," said Sir George, gravely. But he was displeased. He scarcely admitted it to himself, but he was jealous already of Isabel Trevor. CHAPTER XII. HUGH WARRINGTON. But he felt yet more displeased, and more jealous the next day. In passmg the door of the billiard-room, about twelve o'clock, he heard the crack of the balls, and, on looking in to see who were the players, saw Isabel, cue in hand, with her fair face flushed, while leaning on the table by her side was a tall, handsome stranger. Isabel looked up as Sir Greorge opened the room door, and at once beckoned to her host to come in. • " Come and see me play," she said, '^I have got a splendid adversary. Captain Warrington Sir George Hamilton." As Isabel introduced them, the two men looked at each other and bowed. Sir George BENEATH THE WAVE. 213 coldly and stiffly, Captain Warrington cour. teously and good-temperedly. Sir George, in fact, was jealous, but Captain TVarrington was not. Sir George avoided women in general, and Captain "Warrington sought them. Thus a man accustomed to associate with the belles of London society saw nothing so wonderful in Isabel's beauty, as the cold proud man did who shrank from aU communion with his equals. Captain Warrington admired Isabel, but that was all, while Sir George was gradu- aUy permitting himself to feel for her a deep and absorbing passion. " I am considered a good player," continued Isabel, *'why don't you play with me, some- times. Sir George ?" " You have got an efficient substitute apparently," answered Sir George. *' I will not spoil your game." And, with a sUght boW, he turned and left the room. '* So that is Sir George Hamilton T said Captain Warrington, after he had done so. " Not a bad looking fellow, eh ? There are queer stories about him, aren't there ? " 214 BENEATH THE WAVE. ** What stories T asked Isabel, quickly. " Don't know. About some lady or other, I believe. But it's your turn to play. Hadn't we better go on with the game ?" Isabel did go on with the gaihe, and she also went on coquetting with Captain Hugh Warrington. Was Sir George making a fool of her, she was thinking all the time ? There must be some truth in these reports that she was continually hearing about him. She was an excellent player at billiards in general, but she did not play well that morning. " I will not trouble about Sir George any more," she decided, and so when they met at lunch, she addressed her host with studied coldness. Sir George instantly noticed the change in her manner, and his restlessness and impatience under it soon grew painful. He thought that he had offended her in the billiard-room, and tried to conciliate her, but Isabel's manner continued carelessly indifferent. " I am going to ride over to Featherstone, this afternoon, papa," she said to Mr. Trevor during the meal, " the girls there have got up BENEATH THE WAVE. 215 a riding party. We are going to see some abbey or other in the neighbourhood." " Are you going, Sir George T asked Mr. Trevor, with some discomfort in his tone, addressing their host. *'I have not even been asked to go," replied Sir George, with a forced snule. " Oh, it's only the Featherstone girls and myself and — Captain Warrington, I believe," said Isabel. Upon this Sir George bit his lips nervously, and his face flushed. Oh — " said Mr. Trevor, disapprovingly. May I ride Monaco ? " asked Isabel, turning to Sir George with something more like her old manner to him. '* Certainly," answered Sir George, rising and ringing the bell, and when a servant ap- peared he ordered Monaco (his favourite horse) to be saddled for Miss Trevor s use, and having done this, with a word of apology to Mr. Trevor, he left his guests to themselves. " My dear Isabel," said Mr. Trevor, in his severest tone, as the door closed behind their it 216 BENEATH THE WAVE. host, ''do you think you are acting courteously to Sir George in making arrangements in which he is in no way consulted ? " Isabel shrugged her shoulders, as her father spoke. " I am getting a little weary of Sir George," she said, " and feel inclined for a little more lively conversation than he favoured me with." '' I — think you are very injudicious," said Mr. Trevor, turning extremely red, and stammering with indignation. " Why ? " asked Isabel, cooUy helping her- self to a bunch of grapes. *' I — I — repeat what I have said," replied the squire, rising indignantly from the table. " I repeat, — ^you are highly injudicious." And, having said this, Mr. Trevor quitted the room, leaving Isabel and Hilda Marston alone. " What a rage papa is in ! " said Isabel, with a light laugh, going on with her grapes. Hilda moved uncomfortably — in fact, she did not know what to say. *' Why should I never speak to any one but BENEATH THE WAVE. 217 Sir George, I wonder ? " went on Isabel, still eating her grapes. ** Captain Warrington amuses me, and I like being amused." " Perhaps Mr. Trevor thinks — " hesitated Hilda. " That I am losing a chance of Massam/' laughed Isabel, rising also. "Ah, well, it can't be helped." And with, another laugh she turned away. She had, in fact, arranged this riding party, as she called it, with Captain Hugh War- rington alone. They had agreed in the morning, over the bilUard table, that Captain Hugh was to borrow a horse of Mr. Feather- stone, as his brother-in-law, Mr. Woodford, was not possessed of one, and that he was to meet Isabel on such and such a spot on the road between Featherstone and Massam. *' If the girls would like to come you can bring them," said Isabel, in her careless, coquettish way, to Captain Hugh, as she was making these arrangements. '* Needn't be very pressing about their coming, I suppose ? " said Captain Hugh, 218 BINEATH THE WATl. looking at Isabel with his handsome eyes and smiling as he spoke. " I leave it in your hands/' replied Isabel ; and so Captain Hugh never said anything about this meeting to the girls at all. Thus, when Isabel mounted on Monaco, and with one of the Massam grooms behind her (splendidly mounted also), rode up to the appointed spot, though somewhat past the appointed hour, they found Captain Hugh gazing disconsolately at the partridges over the hedge of an adjoining field mounted on a "screw" (as Isabel would have called it) firom the Featherstone stables. " I am weary with waiting," he said, affect- edly, as Isabel, bright and beautiful, as usual, approached him. "Are you?" she laughed. "Well, you see, I have come at last." " I was just going away in despair," said Captain Hugh. " And after mounting this animal " (and he touched the poor horse which he was riding) " for your sake, I think it was cruel of you to keep me so long." ii BENEATH THE WAVE. 219 " I^ must try to console you," answered Isabel, smiling. " So — ^that was all they could give you ? " she went on, critically inspecting Captain Hugh's horse. "Unforeseen and unexpected misfortunes had happened to thjB whole of the rest of Mr. Featherstone's stud," replied Captain Hugh, which he and I equally regretted." Perhaps they are in the hands of the bailiffi," said Isabel, with a laugh, who had heard something of the Featherstones' em- barrassments since she had been at Massanu "Perhaps," replied Captain Hugh, "and the bailiffs have been too knowing to lay hands on this one." And he once more slightly touched the poor animal on which he was mounted. But presently they forgot aU about their horses. Isabel intended to be charming, and she perfectly succeeded. You see ordinary and common-place words sometimes sound charming from lovely lips, and speeches that would be called harsh and cutting coming from the plain or old, do not seem so when 220 BENEATH THE WAVE. the voice is fresh or young. Isabel, tired of having made love to Sir George, with seemingly so little result, now amused her- self by making love to a younger and apparently a more susceptible man. But it is curious how these outer shells in which we are enveloped will sometimes deceive. Captain Hugh Warrington, with his large pensive grey eyes, which looked so full of feeling, was by no means an impulsive person. He, in fact, never dreamed of falling in love with Isabel Trevor as they rode in the misty October evening through the Yorkshire lanes. He admired her, but she was not the kind of woman he would have given his heart to, if he had had any thought of giving it away. Sir George Hamilton, on the contrary, with all his gloom and reticence, was really both impulsive and passionate. He had left the luncheon table feeling angry and jealous almost beyond control, because Isabel was going to ride with Captain Warrington — so angry and jealous that he did not even BENEATH THE WAVE. 221 condescend to tell her his news. This news, that he had just received by telegram, was that Philip Hayward, the tutor, was then on his road to Massam. Thus, when Isabel, flushed and smiling, with Captain Warrington by her side, was returning in the gathering twilight towards the Park, a waggonette passed them — a waggonette in which two gentlemen were seated, and whom Isabel instantly recognized, even before they took off their hats in token of her presence. These were Hayward and Sir George, Sir George having gone to the station to meet the tutor, and with a start Hayward also recognized Isabel as they passed the riders. *' That is Miss Trevor, is it not?" he said a moment later, with quivering Ups. " Yes," answered Sir George, with sudden reserve and coldness, for before this meeting with Isabel he had been exerting himself to be kind and attentive to Hayward. "And the gentleman?" asked Hayward. 222 BENEATH THE WATE. " I do not know," replied Sir Greorge. "Some oflficer, I think, that she met the other day at Featherstone." And as he spoke the tutor suppressed a restless sigh. Living down at Sanda, living in a lonely and secluded spot, and where the great social dijBFerences which divide men were ahnost forgotten, Philip Hayward, the tutor, had lately been nursing a sweet dream of love. There was something almost pathetic in ita simplicity. He had read and dreamed of men and women loving each other too well to part, in spite of all obstacles and all laws, and he had told himself that his love was as strong and great as any man or woman's who had ever lived. He had believed in Isabel's sweet glances, in her few sugared words, in the rosebud that she had given him in jest, but which he treasured now as most men treasure gold. It came upon him, therefore, as a kind of shock when he saw her riding with another man — a shock that made his lips quiver and his heart beat with a dull cold pain. CHAPTER XIII. FALSE ! Isabel was very gracious in her manner to the tutor when they met at dinner. She smiled upon him^ and all the world seemed very bright and beautiful to Philip Hayward in that hour. He scarcely noticed the gloomy looks of his patron, Sir Greorge. He did not notice, or at least did not care for, Mr. Trevor's marked coldness of manner, and he scarcely noticed that Hilda Marston's soft clear eyes wandered more than once involun- tarily to his face. The foolish girl was comparing him with Mr. Trevor. She was listening to his simple words, words which told of thought, of strong will, of deep and tender feelings — ^feelings which she knew 224 BENEATH THE WAVE. were all wasted on the heartless, beautiful woman by his side. Then she looked at the Squire of Sanda, her lover. For his years, Mr. Trevor was a good-looking man. He was tall, thin, grey- haired, and gentlemanly. He had a high nose, a clear fresh skin, a narrow forehead, and small, meagre, pale-coloured eyes. Then, when he spoke. Hilda's ears were naturally sharpened just now, and she blushed and bit her lips when she heard his shallow pompous words. Not that any particular fault could have been alleged against his conversation, but it was like an endless echo. Nothing new or fresh ever flowed from Mr. Trevor's thin lips. And poor, clever Hilda I Was she to sit all her life listening to this correct but weary babble ? The poor girl sighed a heavy audible sigh when she thought of it. She was an honest girl, this — honest and pure, and she began at that moment to think that even little Ned's welfare could be purchased at too heavy a price. BENEATH THE WAVE. 225 "Your brother sent his best love to you, Miss Marston," said PhiUp Hayward to her presently, in his sweet, clear-toned voice. *^ Did he ? " she answered. " Dear little Ned ! " And she sighed again. This sigh reached Mr. Trevor's ears. " I trust that young Edward is fairly attentive to' his studies, Mr. Hayward ? " asked the squire. " Oh, yes," answered Hayward with a smile. "As attentive as we can expect a fine, bold, healthy lad to be." " Which means, I fear, that he loves play better than work," said the squire. " We all do that, Mr. Trevor," said Hay- ward, with another smile ; " only we grown- up people know that we must work or be nothing." "No doubt," replied the squire, "indus- trious habits are essential to success." There, you see, he talked as well as his neighbours ; and yet what a dull dreary man the Squire of Sanda was I VOL. I. Q 226 BENEATH THE WAVE. " I hope you cane him well, Mr. Hay- ward ? " said Isabel, smiling. " I have never struck a boy, and I never will," replied Hay ward gravely. " Qf course not. I was only jesting," said Isabel. "Yes, I knew you were only jesting," said Hayward, looking at her with his thoughtful trustful eyes. What a sweet expression he had ! You read this young man s chivalrous simple nature in every line of his pleasant face. He was not handsome — not absolutely handsome, at least — and yet he was so goodlooking that he was generally called so. He was still very pale from the effects of his late accident, and his arm was in a sling ; but this first evening at Massam he looked so bright, happy, and confident. He was so proud, poor fellow; proud because he believed he was not quite indifferent to Isabel. Sir George, indeed, grew pale and bit his lip when he saw the smiles Isabel lavished on the tutor. He was a madman, he told BENEATH THE WAVE. 227 himself, utterly mad, to be jealous of every look that this woman bestowed on another man, and yet he could not help himself. IsaM, who wa« tired of him, as she tired of most things, never noticed his restless ways and agitated manner. She was amusing herself with Hayward, and gratified at the unmistakable devotion that his looks dis- played. '^And how did you leave the * Spectre,' and the lovely Amelia Shad well ? " asked Isabel, in her careless way, during a pause in the conversation. "Both very well," answered Hayward, good-naturedly. "How terribly tired you must have been of Miss Amelia's beef-tea !" went on Isabel, smiling. " It was very good of her to make it," said Hayward. "I never can repay either Mrs. or Miss Irvine for all their kindness." " You could repay Miss Irvine, you know," half- whispered Isabel. 228 BENEATH THE WAVE. "You should not say that," answered Hayward, with sudden gravity. " Nay, if you look so serious, I shall think you mean to do so," went on Isabel, jestingly. But to this Hayward made no reply. He only looked at Isabel with some reproach in his grey eyes, who dropped hers as he did so with affected penitence, " You must forgive me," she said in a low voice ; " you know I am always jesting." " You must not jest about my kind friends any more, then," answered Hayward. He was indeed too chivalrous to allow it, and yet many a man would have smiled and even jested over the remembrance of his parting with Miss Amelia Irvine. This young woman having made up her mind that she was in love with the tutor, was not one of those who allow "concealment like a worm in the bud to feed on her damask cheek." When Hayward announced his intention of proceeding to Massam, AmeKa, indeed, grew desperate, and, bursting into tears, began sobbing bitterly. BENEATH THE WAVE. 229 " My dear Miss Amelia," said Hayward, approaching her, though it must be admitted that he was very much afraid to do so. "Don't go," cried Amelia. "Hayward, don't !" And she threw herself on a seat, stiffening her form rigidly, and making contortions as if she were about to choke. " But I must," said Hayward, nervously. "You see, my dear Miss Amelia, Sir George Hamilton expects me, and it would never do for me to offend him." "Will you return?" said Amelia, still apparently choking. "Of bourse, I will return," answered Hayward, kindly; and, indeed, it was only after making the most solemn promises to do so that he was allowed to go away. *' She is only a child," Hayward told himself in good-natured excuse for her conduct, though in reality Miss Amelia was at least twenty — " a kind-hearted child, to whom I must always be indebted for her goodness to me." And in this kindly spirit the tutor endeavoured to think of Amelia 230 BENEATH THE WATE. Shadwell. Thus he would not even allow Isabel to laugh at her ; ancT Hilda Marston liked him all the better for the way in which he spoke of this foolish girl. " Well, what do you think of our hero T Isabel said to Hilda when they returned to the small drawing-room together. " I think what I always thought," said Hilda, quietly, " even before he was a hero." ^' And what do you think ?" asked Isabel, surveying herself in one of the long glasses. *' That he is a gentleman," replied Hilda. " A gentleman !" repeated Isabel, arranging a curl, '* that does not express much." " To me it does," answered Hilda, quickly, ''for I know few gentlemen." Upon this Isabel turned round and looked at her companion, whose face had suddenly flushed, and whose eyes were sparkling. " Indeed !" said Isabel. " Do you mean that you know few who possess the quaHties that you think a gentleman should possess ?" " I know few," said Hilda, with a little quiver in her voice, '' on whose Ups you never BKNEATH THE WAVE. 231 hear a mean or ignoble word, few who regard the humblest woman with respect and honour, and in whose simple assertion I could entirely trust." " So that is your idea of a gentleman !" said Isabel, again turning her attention to the glass. " And you think that Mr. Hay- ward is all this, do you T " I have always seen him act as a gentle- man," answered Hilda ; and after saying this she left the room, Isabel looking after her as she did so with an amused smile. "So, she has lost her heart," she was thinking. " Poor Hilda Marston, she may spare herself the trouble." And she smiled again, for she knew it was not Hilda that Hayward cared for. But the very fact that she thought another woman did like him added piquancy to Isabel's wish to entirely captivate the tutor. Sometimes she had read unspoken disapproval of her ways in Hilda's grey eyes, and as Isabel deemed such disapproval impertinence, she was not displeased to have 232 BENEATH THE WAVE. it in her power to revenge herself by tacitly wounding her humble companion. Never, therefore, did Isabel make herself more charming than she did this evening to the penniless tutor. And what could he think ? He heard her speak in tones of polite in- difference to the owner of the broad acres of Massam. He met her sweet smiling glances, listened to her winning, flattering tongue, and the old infatuation grew stronger, the old passionate admiration more powerful, in the young man's heart. During the whole of the next day it was the same thing. Isabel had agreed to ride again in the afternoon with her military admirer, Captain Warrington, but in the morning she received a note of apology from him : he had been recalled to town to be present at a court-martial ; but he trusted to meet Miss Trevor again, and so on. Thus Isabel was thrown back for amusement on the unfortunate tutor. She drove him over during the morning in the late Lady Hamilton's pony chaise, to see the Feather- BENEATH THE WAVE. 233 stones, and told them before him of his bravery in rescuing Sir George Hamilton. " Why did you tell them that ?" he asked, as they were returning from this visit. "Why should I not?" answered Isabel. " Why should people not know how brave you are ?" " 1 fear bravery had very little to do with it," said Hayward, casting down his eyes. " What had to do with it, then ?" asked Isabel, in her bright, fearless way. " I went because you bade me go," an- swered Hayward, with a passionate ring in his voice that almost touched Isabel's cold heart. " No, no, that is folly," she murmured, and she jerked the reins that she was holding nervously as she spoke. *^ Is it all folly, Isabel ?" asked Hayward. " Of course it is," she answered in her old coquettish manner. " But I am glad, sir, you went at my bidding," she added. " Re- member, you have always to do my bidding." "Yes, I will always do it," answered Hayward ; and he stooped down and kissed 232 BENEATH THE WAVE. it in her power to revenge herself by tacitly wounding her humble companion. Never, therefore, did Isabel make herself more charming than she did this evening to the penniless tutor. And what could he think ? He heard her speak in tones of polite in- difference to the owner of the broad acres of Massam. He met her sweet smiling glances, listened to her winning, flattering tongue, and the old infatuation grew stronger, the old passionate admiration more powerful, in the young man's heart. During the whole of the next day it was the same thing. Isabel had agreed to ride again in the afternoon with her military admirer, Captain Warrington, bat in the morning she received a note of apology from him : he had been recalled to town to be present at a court-martial ; but he trusted to meet Miss Trevor again, and so on. Thus Isabel was thrown back for amusement on the unfortunate tutor. She drove him over during the morning in the late Lady Hamilton's pony chaise, to see the Feather- BENEATH THE WAVE. 233 stones, and told them before him of his bravery in rescuing Sir George Hamilton. " Why did you tell them that ?" he asked, as they were returning from this visit. "Why should I not?" answered Isabel. " Why should people not know how brave you are ?" " I fear bravery had very little to do with it," said Hayward, casting down his eyes. " What had to do with it, then ?" asked Isabel, in her bright, fearless way. " I went because you bade me go," an- swered Hayward, with a passionate ring in his voice that almost touched Isabel's cold heart. " No, no, that is folly," she murmured, and she jerked the reins that she was holding nervously as she spoke. "Is it all folly, Isabel ?" asked Hayward. " Of course it is," she answered in her old coquettish manner. " But I am glad, sir, you went at my bidding," she added. " Re- member, you have always to do my bidding." "Yes, I will always do it," answered Hayward ; and he stooped down and kissed 232 BENEATH THE WAVE. it in her power to revenge herself by tacitly- wounding her humble companion. Never, therefore, did Isabel make herself more charming than she did this evening to the penniless tutor. And what could he think ? He heard her speak in tones of polite in- difference to the owner of the broad acres of Massam. He met her sweet smiling glances, listened to her winning, flattering tongue, and the old infatuation grew stronger, the old passionate admiration more powerful, in the young man's heart. During the whole of the next day it was the same thing. Isabel had agreed to ride again in the afternoon with her military admirer, Captain Warrington, but in the morning she received a note of apology from him : he had been recalled to town to be present at a court-martial ; but he trusted to meet Miss Trevor again, and so on. Thus Isabel was thrown back for amusement on the unfortunate tutor. She drove him over during the morning in the late Lady Hamilton's pony chaise, to see the Feather- BENEATH THE WAVE. 233 Stones, and told them before him of his bravery in rescuing Sir George Hamilton. " Why did you tell them that ?" he asked, as they were returning from this visit. "Why should I not?" answered Isabel. " Why should people not know how brave you are ?" " I fear bravery had very little to do with it," said Hayward, casting down his eyes. " What had to do with it, then ?" asked Isabel, in her bright, fearless way. " I went because you bade me go," an- swered Hayward, with a passionate ring in his voice that almost touched Isabel's cold heart. *' No, no, that is folly," she murmured, and she jerked the reins that she was holding nervously as she spoke. "Is it all folly, Isabel ?" asked Hayward. " Of course it is," she answered in her old coquettish manner. " But I am glad, sir, you went at my bidding," she added, " Re- member, you have always to do my bidding." "Yes, I will always do it," answered Hayward ; and he stooped down and kissed 232 BENEATH THE WAVE. it in her power to revenge herself by tacitly wounding her humble companion. Never, therefore, did Isabel make herself more charming than she did this evening to the penniless tutor. And what could he think ? He heard her speak in tones of poUte in- difference to the owner of the broad acres of Massam. He met her sweet smiling glances, listened to her winning, flattering tongue, and the old infatuation grew stronger, the old passionate admiration more powerful, in the young man's heart. During the whole of the next day it was the same thing. Isabel had agreed to ride again in the afternoon with her military admirer. Captain Warrington, but in the morning she received a note of apology from him : he had been recalled to town to be present at a court-martial ; but he trusted to meet Miss Trevor again, and so on. Thus Isabel was thrown back for amusement on the unfortunate tutor. She drove him over during the morning in the late Lady Hamilton's pony chaise, to see the Feather- BENEATH THE WAVE. 233 stones^ and told them before him of his bravery in rescuing Sir George Hamilton. "Why did you tell them that?" he asked, as they were returning from this visit. Why should I not?" answered Isabel Why should people not know how brave you are ?" " I fear bravery had very little to do with it," said Hayward, casting down his eyes. " What had to do with it, then ?" asked Isabel, in her bright, fearless way. " I went because you bade me go," an- swered Hayward, with a passionate ring in his voice that almost touched Isabel's cold heart. " No, no, that is folly," she murmured, and she jerked the reins that she was holding nervously as she spoke. "Is it aU folly, Isabel ?" asked Hayward. " Of course it V she answered in Z old coquettish manner. " But I am glad, sir, you went at my bidding," she added. " Re- member, you have always to do my bidding." "Yes, I will always do it," answered Hayward ; and he stooped down and kissed 234 BENEATH THE WAVE. the small gauntleted hand that held the reins. Thus you see Isabel was playing with fire. She was arousing feelings for her amusement that she could not quench. She had done this with Sir George Hamilton, but his gloom and taciturnity had disgusted her; and now she was doing it again with a noble honest-hearted man; Sir George watiched all the day with pas- sionate anger and jealousy her intimacy with the tutor. He began to believe that they must have been lovers long ago ; to torment himself, in fact, with a hundred fancies. But Mr. Hannaway, the lawyer, dined at Massam the second evening that Hay ward was there, and the acute man of the world had a word to say to his patron on the subject. After dinner Isabel was playing billiards with Hayward, and Sir George and Mr. Hannaway were watching the game, though at a considerable distance from the players. Sir George's face was pale, and his brows were bent. Mr. Haimaway, having just BENEATH THE WAVE. 235 enjoyed a good dinner, wss rosy and smUing, and in the humour to do a good turn to everyone around him. " That seems an intelligent young fellow," he said to Sir Greorge, alluding to Hay ward. " Yes," answered Sir George ; " do you think him good-looking ? " Mr. Hannaway's quick ears detected the anxiety expressed in the last sentence, and he answered aflFably, " Yes —ah yes, tolerably so. It is good- natured of Miss Trevor to be so kind to him." "Perhaps she likes him," answered Sir George, with a forced smile. " Or perhaps she likes somebody else, and is too proud to show it, eh, Sir George !" suggested the acute man of law. Sir George made no answer to this, but the idea was balm and pleasantness to his soul. What if this were* true, he thought ? He remembered at this moment how she had asked him to be her friend in the conservatory ; how she had seemed to care for him then, and how he had repelled 236 BENEATH THE WAVE. her kindness. Perhaps it was but her maiden pride all this indiflTerence, he began to argae — watching with eager eyes the beautifal smihng face, and supple graceful form. By chance Isabel's eyes fell on his eager, anxious, set white face. The expression there of deep and concentrated emotion imme- diately attracted her attention, and she smiled, calling Sir George with a gesture to her side. " Shall we have a game now. Sir George f she said. "I have beaten Mr. Hayward. You have never once played with me." " No," he answered, in an agitated voice ; " but do not let us play. Miss Trevor," he went on, in a low earnest tone, " I wish to say a few words to you — I must say a few words to you !" Mr. Hannaway by this time had advanced towards Hayward, and had engaged him in conversation. Isabel glanced for a moment at the tutor, and then said — " What is it you wish to say, Sir George ? I am — always ready, you know, to listen." BENEATH THE WAVE. 237 " Not here," he answered hurriedly ; " I cannot say what I would say to you here. You once said you were fond of flowers," he went on ; " will you let me gather some now r '*Yes/' said Isabel, slowly. She saw something momentous was coming ; and Mr. Hannaway, whose face was turned towards Sir George and herself, perhaps saw this also. " Let us try our luck, Mr. Hayward," he said, taking up a cue. "I am no great jplayer, but I feel in the humour to try my luck to-night." Hayward glanced at Isabel, but he only saw her talking apparently quietly to their host. He had monopolized her nearly all day, he remembered, and so he smiled pleasantly at Mr. Hannaway. " I am a bad player also," he said, " but I shall be glad to play." As the two men commenced their game, Sir George offered his arm in silence to Isabel. She took it gravely. She was specu- lating on what he was going to say ; was 238 BENEATH THE WAVE. interested in the sudden change which had come over him. " Is he going to tell me the secret, I wonder T thought Isabel — " the secret that people are always hinting at to me, about his life T She could feel his arm tremble as he led her down the dimly-lighted corridors of the house. He went straight on until they came to the left wing, and then entered the morning-room, closing the door behind them. This room opened into the small conserva- tory, where Isabel had gathered the flowers on the first evening that she had spent at Massam, and where she had told Sir George she had wished to be his friend. Sir George was thinking of that interview now, of that and of other things. He placed a seat for Isabel, and then with sudden vehemence took her hand. " Isabel," he said, his voice trembHng and broken with emotion, "do you remember what you once said to me in this room T " What was it, Sir George ? " asked Isabel " You — a young and lovely girl,'' went on BENEATH THE WAVE. 239 Sir Greorge, with increasing agitation, " told me — ^a man old before my time — ^that you wished to be my friend. Do you still wish this, Isabel ? " he continued ; " or are you changed ? " " I thought that — ^you were changed, Sir Greorge," answered Isabel. " No, no. But perhaps I am changed," he added, and his voice sank almost to a whis- per ; " for now I know your power." Isabel's heart gave a great, triumphant throb as these words reached her ears. " You mean ? " she said, and she looked at him with her bright, inquiring eyes. " I mean," answered Sir Greorge, " that when you came here — ^when, in fact, I first knew you, I was, I felt, too old — ^not in age, perhaps, exactly — but, Isabel, I have had cares and grief, such cares and grief that I cannot tell you ! " And Sir George covered his face, apparently overcome with emotion. ^' You mean," said Isabel, speaking as no loving woman could have spoken, " that there is an obstacle between us ? " 240 BENEATH THE WAVE. '* Yes," answered Sir George, in brief and bitter tones. " That cannot be overcome ? " went on Isabel. " No, no ; I do not say that ! *' cried Sir George, passionately — " I do not say that cannot be overcome." And he began to pace the room with hasty strides. "Isabel," he went on, coming back to her after a few moments, and once more taking her hand, " what I mean is this. There was an obstacle; there is an obstacle between us ; but — ^if you love me — " " Yes ? " said Isabel, still inquiringly. " It need not part us. If you love me — remember, if you love me, Isabel — I ask you to be my wife ? " Isabel was silent for a moment, and she then said — " And you can legally do this ? " If Sir George had not been so impulsive and passionate, and so deeply in love himself, he might have heard her true answer to this inquiry if she loved him in these cold words. BENEATH THE WAVE. 241 As it was, his real feelings blinded him to her want of any. He was, in fact, too much excited to notice her calculating coldness. " Yes, yes," he answered, '^ I can do this. But remember, Isabel," he went on, almost wamingly, "that there is still a great gulf between us. You are young, bright, and happy — I am a gloomy, care-worn man." "And these stories that they tell about you ? " asked Isabel. " What stories ? " replied Sir George, shai'ply, " They say," said Isabel, with the fearless- ness and defiance of her nature, "that you are connected with some woman." " The person to whom you allude," answered Sir George, with quivering Ups, as Isabel waited to hear his answer, " is dead." For a moment or two there was silence in the room after this announcement, Sir George beginning once more to pace up and down with restless steps and knitted brow. Then Isabel made up her mind. She followed Sir VOL. I. R 242 BENEATH THE WAVE, George's uneven steps. She laid her white supple hand upon his arm. " You asked me/' she said, ^' If — ^if — I were changed to you. I tried to change. They told me even that you had a wife." "It is a lie!" fiercely interrupted Sir George, grasping her hand. "But — ^but I did not know," went on Isabel. " I was afraid to show my feelings — I tried to hide them." "Then," went on Sir George, with pas- sionate eagerness, " I am not indifferent to you ? " " No," whispered Isabel, and she hid her face upon his arm. So she won. With a murmured cry of joy Sir George now caught her to his breast, holding her there, and whispering words of love. Then, suddenly, as if some fresh thought had struck him, he put her away; pushing her apart from him for a moment, and looking straight into her lovely face, " You will never make me jealous, Isabel, will you ? " he said. BENEATH THE WAVE. 243 " FooKsh one !" she answered, smiling, " why do you ask ? You, whom I have chosen before all other men !" CHAPTEE XIV. REAPING THE WHIRLWIND. By Isabel's wish this strange engagement was kept a secret for the next few days between Sir George and herself She had various reasons for this, one of which was a sort of feeling of compassion, a faint tender- ness even (if such a thing as tenderness existed in her cold heart) for PhiUp Hay ward. Yes, she had a sort of liking for the tutor, for the honest, grey, manly eyes that followed her movements with such simple chivalrous devotion. Isabel liked to know her power, and this young man had risked his life to please her. She caught herself wishing sometimes that Hay ward was the master of Massam, and not the gloomy man whose BENEATH THE WAVE. 245 successful love suit had by no means cleared away the cloud from his brow. But she did not intend to draw back. She loved the world and the world's good things too well to lose the prize that she had won. She meant to marry Sir George Hamilton, but the company of her future husband was often not a little wearisome to her. Thus things went on for a day or two, Isabel, in the meantime, playing with Hay- ward's heart as if she were actually studying how, when he learnt the truth, to cost him the most pain. Yet she did not mean this. It was the innate coquetry of her nature that induced her to trifle with this young man's feelings, and not from any wish to hurt him. She liked him too well for that. But she could not resist the pleasure of seeing him devoted to her ; of knowing that these two men were jealous of her slightest word. But Sir George was too proud to show this now, though he hinted to her with some gravity of manner that it was unwise of her to spend so much of her time with Hayward 246 BENEATH THE WAYE. '^ What do you mean ? " asked Isabel, smiling. Then Sir George ventured to explain. The young man might naturally suppose that she was greatly interested in him, he told Isabel '' Well, I am interested in him," she answered. '* But is it kind to show this ? " urged Sir George. ^* Hayward is young, perhaps he might even think " And Sir George paused. '^ That I am in love with him, perhaps ?" said Isabel, with a mocking laugh. "No, he is not presumptuous enough for that." This conversation left a painful impression on Sir George's mind. There was a heartless carelessness in Isabel's words that found no echo in his heart. Yet he was jealous of her still, though he did not appear so ; and under the influence of this feeling, one evening after dinner, he asked Hayward to stroll out on the terrace with him. Then, when they were there, as they smoked their cigars, he inquired of the tutor if he] [had come yet to BENEATH THE WAVE. 247 any decision regarding his future profession. Hayward waa surprised for a moment at the question. Sir George had invited him to pay a long visit to Massam, and he had been there little more than a week when Sir George asked it. But before he could reply, the Baronet added — *' The reason I ask you is, that Hannaway told me yesterday that a living, that I have in my gift, will probably soon be vacant. Do you think that you would like to go mto the Church ? " Hayward coloured for a moment as Sir George said this, and then answered — " It is my mother's dearest wish that I should do so, but I cannot reconcile myself to the idea." '' Why ? " asked Sir George. " Sir George," said Hayward, with an earnest ring in his voice, "should a man undertake what he cannot conscientiously fulfil ? I cannot satisfy my own mind about what I should then be called upon to teach and preach to others." 248 BENEATH THE WATE. " About hereafter ? " said Sir George, slowly. '^ Yes — ^to me so many great questions are unsolved, that I am utterly imfit for the office of a teacher." Sir George gave a heavy sigh. " And you have a mother ? '' he said. "Yes," answered Hay ward, and a faint flush came into his face, and a soft light into his eyes, " a dear little mother. You don't know, perhaps," he added, smiling, " that 1 am her only child, and she is a widow ? " Sir George sighed again. " I too was an only child," he said, " and my mother was a widow. But we will not talk of it," he went on, abruptly. " Do you know, Hayward, what I think the greatest curse on earth ?" he added. *' No — among the various evils that fledi is heir to, which do you consider the greatest then, Sir George ? " " Memory," answered Sir George, darkly and briefly. " Memory ! " repeated Hayward, as if sur- BENEATH THE WAVE. 249 prised, "I do not think that, Sir George. What would life be if we had only the present? The past and future from their very dimness always seem to me to have peculiar charms. About the past I try to remember only what was pleasant, and for the future I have always hope." '^ It is well — ^you have a happy disposition, then T said Sir George. "Perhaps I have," answered Hayward, and he smiled. Both these men were thinking at that moment about the same woman. Hayward with chivalrous pas- sionate devotion; Sir George with vague passionate disgust and disappointment. He had won her, but she did not satisfy him. He felt there was something wanting even then, in the bright beauty that had en- slaved him. But he was enslaved still. Enslaved, though his heart was unquiet within him ; though he told himself that there were many things unlovable about Isabel Trevor. Presently he began talking to Hayward 250 BENEATH THE WAVE. again about his future prospects, urging him to accept such a lavish allowance from his hands for the present that Hayward declined it, with modest pride. " You count my life so cheap then. Hay- ward," answered Sir George, half bitterly, half sadly, "that you will not allow me in any way to recompense you for saving it?" •'Do not say that, Sir George," said Hayward, in his pleasant voice. " I shall gratefully accept help from you, but only] sufficient to supply my moderate wants. And even this," he added, ''you must allow me at some future time to repay." " It is false pride of you to say this, Hayward," said Sir George, almost harshly. "Is it ? " answered Hayward, gently. " Then forgive me. Sir George. But one recompence for my slight service I shall ask," he continued, in his winning manner, "which is to be allowed to call myself your friend." " That is a poor recompence, indeed," said BENEATH THE WAVE. 251 Sir George, moodily, turning away his head. " God knows my friendship is of little worth ! " As Sir George said this they were passing near some of the windows of the house, and as they did so there came a little tapping on one of the panes. Both turned their heads at the sound, and then they saw Isabel standing inside the lighted room beyond, and endeavouring to unfasten one of the windows that opened upon the terrace. Sir George at once advanced to her assistance and undid the fastening. " You must come in," she said, addressing him smilingly, *^ a visitor has arrived — Mr. Hannaway." " Oh ! " said Sir George, indifferently. ^^ But he wishes particularly to see you," went on Isabel. " Oh, here he is to answer for himself" And as she spoke the tall form and good-looking face of the lawyer appeared behind Isabel. '* Can I have a word with you. Sir George ? " he said. " I have a letter here," 252 BENEATH THE WAVE. he added^ '^ that I think it is important that you should see/' ^'I will come with you,** answered Sir George. '* Excuse me ! " And he looked at Isabel. ** Certainly," she answered, as Sir Greorge followed Mr. Hannaway. " That is a man," she went on, speaking to Hayward and giving a little nod of her head to indicate the lawyer, " who has a remarkably high opinion of Mr. Hannaway." '* Well, why should he not T answered Hayward, with a little laugh. ^' He is good- looking, agreeable, and rich." *' Good-looking, agreeable, and rich," repKed Isabel, '^ and yet to me he has no charm." Hayward's heart beat fast at these words, and at the subtle insinuation they conveyed. *' And what qualities have charms for you, then — Isabel T he faltered. Isabel cast down her eyes. " Why do you ask T she said. " Everyone knows when they charm." In her waistband was a faded rose, and BENEATH THE WAVE. 253 as these words fell from her lips, Hajrward saw it. " Give me that rose, Isabel !" he said, " I am jealous of a flower." '^ What folly !'' she answered, still without looking up; but she unfastened the rose. "It is dead," she said, holding it towards him. " It has died where I too would die," murmured Hayward. " Poor rose !" said Isabel. " Poor Hay- ward !" she thought, and one of those momen- tary pangs of regret crossed her heart, as she glanced coyly up once more into the young man's earnest face. '^We had better go inside," she said. " We must not forget that propriety in the shape of papa and Miss Marston are watching us." Indeed, at this moment the squire himself appeared advancing towards the window near where Isabel and Hajrward were stand- ing. " My dear Isabel," he said, '' are you not afraid of the chill night air? You are 254 BENEATH THE WAVE. causing a most serious draught in the room.** And the squire shrugged his shoulders. " My dear papa," answered Isabel, shrug- ging hers also, " I hope it won't give you rheumatism ! " " Shall I shut the window, Mr. Trevor T asked Hayward. ''Thank you," replied Mr. Trevor, stiiHy; and while Hayward was thus employed. Sir George Hamilton came again into the room, and walked straight up to Isabel. '' Isabel," he said, in a low tone, *' will you excuse me if I run up to town for one day T " It depends on whom you run with," replied Isabel, looking smilingly at her lover. " I wish to go with Hannaway," answered Sir George, who looked pale and disturbed. " A letter, an important letter, that he has just shown me, calls me away. But I shall return to-morrow night." "Very well," said Isabel, still smiling. ''And — will you look after everyone for me ?" asked Sir George, hesitatingly, as if he were thinking of a something else. BENEATH THE WAVE. 255 " Yes, I will make an excellent cMtelaine, or hostess, or whatever is the right thing," answered Isabel, still lightly. "And — Isabel — will you come out with me for one moment V then asked Sir George, this time fixing his eyes on her fa^. "Yes," said Isabel, after an instant's hesitation, and she followed him from the room to the corridor outside. When they were there. Sir George, after glancing round to see that they were alone, put his arms round her. " Give me one kiss, Isabel," he said, " before we say good-bye !" Isabel, too, looked round, and then lifted her rosy lips to his. "Good-bye," she said, but Sir George would not let her go. He held her there to his breast, pale and agitated. Isabel, on the contrary, was quite unmoved. She was a little uncomfortable, perhaps, in Sir George's embrace, but that was alL Through the half-closed door, however, of the small drawing-room that they had just quitted, 256 BENEATH THE WAVE. she could see the side of the cabinet contaiii- ing the unset gems that she had often coveted. This reminded her of what Sir Greorge was — the master of all this wealth ; and so again she held her lips up for his kiss. *' Good-bye," she said once more, and Sir George kissed her, pressed her closer in his arms, and then with a murmured word or two bade her farewell. After he was gone, Isabel returned to the drawing-room, and advanced, smilingly, to where her father, Hilda Marston, and Philip Hayward were standing. " Our host has left me in charge of you all," she said, " so I hope you mean to make yourselves very agreeable." The next day was Sunday — a wet Sunday. In the morning the whole party drove to the parish church, and heard Mr. Woodford's very mild and inoffensive discourse. Mrs. Woodford, with her insignificant features and faded complexion, was yawning during its delivery on one side of the pulpit, and the beadle on the other. The Featherstone girls were there, but they never yawned. Antony BENEATH THE WATE. 259 Feaiiierstone, their father, however, slejpt through the whole of the parson's discontde. The Squire of Sanda rigidly kept himself awake, as ''an example," but his pale eye^ winked and bHnked unceasiiagly with theit abortive efforts not to close, "We were the only two really awake, I beUeve, Mi*. Hayward," said Isabel, feii^h- ingly, as they drove home. " My dear Isabel, do not make such foolish aasertions," said the squire. " I wiU not deh;^ that Mr. Woodford's sermon was not striking, but I never thought of going to sleep." "You thought you would not," answered Isabel, malicioufidy. " I was not asleep," said Hilda Marston. " Were you not ? " replied Isabel, as if it were a matter of no consequence, and then the subject dropped. In the afternoon the weather grew worse. The blinding rain came beating against the windows of the house, and the wind swept moamng through the trees. They lingered as long as they could over the luncheon table, VOL. I. s 258 BENEATH THE WAVE. and then first Hilda retired. After she was gone the squire went to the reading-room of the library, took up Saturday's Times, and sank back in an easy chair before a blazing fire. Isabel and Hayward were thus left to amuse themselves as best they could. Isabel having looked out of the window at the storm, and regretted that she supposed they could not play billiards (at which sugges- tion, Hayward smilingly shook his head), she proposed that they should go over the house and look at the pictures. So they went together up the broad stair- case, where many valuable ones were hung. The great masters, whose hands have made the canvas live, were nearly all represented at Massam. Catalogue in hand, Isabel went up and down the long gallery, pointing out this gem or that, to the tutor. She had been here with Sir George, and knew where the Rembrandt hung, and where the Poussin. But she lingered longest before the smiling beauties that Sir Peter Lely's art had pour- trayed. Amongst these were some of the BENEATH THE WAVE. 259 ancestresses of Hamilton's — fair women who had played their part in the comedies and tragedies of their time, and then had vanished from the scene. Isabel kept speculating about them to the tutor, and wondering if a certain diamond necklace, clasped round the plump throat of one fair dame, was yet among the treasures of the house. *^ I always envy jewels," said Isabel. "My good lady," she went on mockingly, addressing the pictured lady smiling on the wall, " will you give me your necklace ? " Hayward made no reply. He was looking at Isabel. At the wonderful tints of her lovely face, at the glimmer of her golden hair, shining even in the dark gallery, with the darkening clouds overhead. She was fairer than all these dead women hanging around, who had been painted, and passed away. " Too fair," Hayward thought, almost with a groan at that moment. " Why are you so silent ? " said Isabel, turning round suddenly, and looking at him. Then, carried away by the impetuou sfeel- 260 BENIBATH THS WAYS. ings surging in his heaxt^ Haywaxd caoght both her white and supple hands in his. "I was thinking," he said; 'thinking of Isabel — of you '' Isabel was startled for an instant by the passionate ring in his voice, by the light in his eyes, and by his unexpected touch. Then she recovered herself. " A very stupid occupation, Mr. Hay ward," she said, trying to pull her hands from his. " Oh ! do not jest any more, Isabel," went on Hayward. " I must speak— I cannot be But " said Isabel, embarrassed. You have known it long ; I know you have known it long," continued Hayward, interrupting her, "but, lately I have dared to think, Isabel " " What ?" she asked, and she looked into his face. "That you care for me — ^that I am not indifferent to you," faltered Hayward. Anf then, with honest, manly pride ringing in hia voice and shining in his face, he went on, BENSATH THE WATB. 261 ft '•You know wliat I am ! A poor inan, who has yet to win his way. But. IsabeL I will ™>IV he continued, m hi= fend tenderness. '• Whisper one word, say one word, tell me what shall be my reward?* As Hayward paused, Isabel's eyes fell from his face. " I — I — do like you/* she said, hesitatingly; "but you must know " "What?" It was now Hayward's turn to ask, as he looked quickly up. " That in our relative positions," went on Isabel, with some discomfort in her voice, "that is — ^if you mean anything serious." " I am not jesting," said Hayward, with sudden sternness. "I mean^ if you think anything about marrying," contmued Isabel. "Of what else could I think?" said Hayward. " Isabel — surely you have not been playing with me?" "It is impossible," said Isabel, "you know it is impossible." "Then, why," asked Hayward, indig- 262 BENEATH THE WAVE. nantly, " have you trifled with me ? If maniaofe is impossible between us, why have you seemed as if you wished me to love you ? " " Perhaps I have acted wrongly," said Isabel. " But Mr. Hayward — I wish to be your friend." And she held out her haod to him. '^ Friend ! " echoed Hayward, bitterly. *' No, Miss Trevor, that can never be ! I — I — ^love you — ^love you as a man loves the woman he asks to be his wife — nothing else will satisfy me now ! " *^ Then I repeat," said Isabel, *' it is im- possible." " And you have been fooling me all this time ? " went on Hayward, yet more bitterly. " What was your motive, Miss Trevor ? What honour or glory could you gain by deceiving a man so contemptible in your eyes as I am ? " " You are not contemptible," said Isabel *'I — I — as I said before, I like you, and wish to be your friend. Everything else is BENEATH THE WAVE. 263 impossible between us — ^because — I may as well tell you the truth — I am engaged to Sir George Hamilton." Even Isabel's cold heart felt ashamed and stricken when she saw the grey look of despair that passed over the tutor s face at this announcement. But he uttered no word. He only pressed his teeth tightly over his under Hp, and his face turned white, and then a cold, sickly grey. ^'I— I — am sorry if this pains you," faltered Isabel, "but it is better that you should know the truth." "Yes, much better," said Hayward. " And now I will go away." And he turned to leave her. "Nay, stay, let us talk it over," said Isabel, But he never looked back. He passed straight and silently down the long gallery ; and straight and silently, and with a heart bursting with intolerable pain, he went out into the rain-soaked, storm-beaten park. CHAPTER XT. Thx moBfe bikfaor of Immaii paaaioDs w&te ragiHg in Hajwsrfa breast 9&&r he left JnbeL Diaafq^oiated love and jealoiisjr had poosesBion of him, and desp«ir was not fisor awaj. What ? she had been fooling him aU the while t It was a {ooYs paradise that he had been living in, and now sadd^ j he was turned oat in the cold. He remembered it aU — all the looks and smiles with which she had wiled <m him, and now — O God ! O Grod ! was it aU &Ise — all adream? He never fdt the rain that was beating on his face as he went through the damp park, nor heard the storm that was raging BENEATH IHE WAYX. 265 around him. His soul seemed all dark. What was the use of his liying on ? He had nothing to live for. His ambition^ his love, his pride were all crushed in one blow; and when he reached the first great clump of trees, with a groan he flung himself down, burying his face in the wet dank grass. But in this hour of despau- he was not left alone. There had been an unintentional listener to the words that had passed between him and Isabel in the picture gallery, a listener whose cheeks had burnt and whose heart had throbbed as she heard them. This was Hilda Marston. She had been sitting reading in one of the deep- oortained ^Z, oTZgallery when I^abTl and Hayward entered it. She imagmed that they would just pass through it, and then go, and she therefore made no sign of her presence. Suddenly, however, when they were close to her, Isabel had stopped before the picture of the lady with the diamond necklace ; and to Hilda's shame, pain, and consternation, she overheard the momentous 266 BENEATH THE WAVE. words which were then spoken. Before she could speak to let them know she was there it was too late. Hayward, carried away by his impetuous feeUngs, had declared his love, and Hilda, trembling with agitation, had heard the answer. Then she saw Hayward pass down the gallery with his grey set face. Its expres- sion haunted and startled her. *' She has broken his heart," Hilda thought. " Oh ! false woman, you have broken his heart ! " The false woman who had done this was standing looking very uncomfortable at this moment. She Uked Hayward. His genuine honest devotion, his good looks, and his winning manners, were all pleasant to her. But to marry him, it was folly, madness. " The young man's head must be turned," decided Isabel. But she knew quite well who had turned it. Deep down in her heart was an uneasy consciousness. She knew that Hayward had loved her long and well, and she knew that lately she had flattered him into the belief BENEATH THE WAVE. 267 that she had returned that love. She had beUeved him to be, and wished him to continue, her devoted slave, and in return she meant to give him her honeyed smiles, her bright, careless, and unprofitable words. But now, when he had rejected these, she respected him more. She wished to win him back. " He will come back," she thought ; and thinking this, she walked down the picture gallery, and Hilda Mar- ston was alone. As the sound of Isabel's footsteps died away, Hilda glanced out on the rain-soaked, deserted park. Some instinct told her that in his misery Hayward would rush from the house. She looked out, and there he was hurrying on in the bUnding rain — reckless, despairing. " My God ! " thought Hilda, starting to her feet, ^^ he may do something — some rash act that can never be recalled." She ran down the gallery and to her own room in the next few moments. Hastily seizing a hat and cloak when she got there, five minutes after Hayward had crossed the 268 BENEATH THE WATB. parky she also was croBsing it. She went TTith fear and dread in her heart Oh I if she were too late ! The girl ran panth^ breathless on, pursued by this thought Then suddenly, as she passed the first great dump of trees that she came to, a groan struck her ears. Hilda gave a shiver and went on — ^went on until she came to wh^re the prostrate form of Hayward lay in the wet grass, his face hidden in it, and his hands dashed over his head in his gi^t misery. "Mr. Hayward!" said Hilda, with a half sob, and she went up to him. Then Hayward lifted his face and looked up, and when he saw her (with sudden shame that she should see him thus) he rose to his feet. " Forgive me for following you !" panted HUda; "but — ^but Mr. Hayward, I was in the picture-gallery just now. I — over- heard what passed between you and Isabel Trevor." Hayward's face flushed for a moment at BENIATH THE WAYS. 26d this, and then the siokly grey pallor stole over it again. '' I heard all the wicked words she said," went on Hilda, passionately. **l know what she is — she is cmel! Don't grieve about her, Mr. Hayward— beautifiil » d« is, Ae is not worTTtrue m^i r^fret." Hayward said nothing. He stood the» feicing Hilda, and Hilda, aa she looked at him, felt still afraid. "You have a mother, have you not?'* she said, quickly, "Will you go home to your mother?" "No — oh, no," answered Hayward, and he shivered. Something in the expression of his fSeuie as he said this yet further alarmed Hilda. It was so dark. There was despair in it, and so the girl timidly put out her hand and laid it on his arm. "Come into the house with me," she said. "You are so wet and cold. Gome, Mr. Hayward." •* I csuonotr gno, ' said HawanL "^ I am g nincr awav. I will never come bacfc."^ Ban Hilrfa kept urging hrm An all erents ahe would not Leave hrm^ siie decidei •^Stavan lease.'' die said, •^rmtil Sir Georce retrama, Rtanember iie is not to blame for tiiiss.' '* ^o/' said Havwari sharphr. "? I oannot see him. Jfo, I will w.*' »^ •^ Not to-dav. surelv r adfced Hilda. •' Xes^ now,'' answered Havwari *•" There will be a train soon. I dare say,'' he cc^itinaedy loofririg at his watoh. '^Crood-bve. !Mjss Marston — I th^nk voa for voor kindness/' Bat HtIHa woold not leave him. ^Yoa cannot 2:0 as von are.'' she said, with womanly reasoning. "Yoa have no outer-coat on, and you cannot go without your luggage.'' He had forgotten all about these things. But now he saw that if he left I^fassam without them he would expose himself to Hilda's grave suspicions. For a moment he hesitated, and then he said — BENEATH THE WAVE. 271 "Will you promise me one thing, Miss Marston ? Will you tell no one that I am leaving Massam V " I will tell no one," answered Hilda, and after she had given this promise, Hayward walked with her to the house. When he got there he went straight up to his own room for a few minutes, and there wrote a short letter to Sir George. Hilda was waiting in the corridor that led to his room, looking pale and anxious, when he came out of it. In his hand he held the letter to Sir George, and when he saw^BiMa he came towards her. ^^^^ " Will you take charge of this V he said. "Yes," replied Hilda, glancing at the address. " I thank you — and now good-bye," went on Hayward, and he held out his hand to Hilda. " No," she answered. " I am going with you. I will walk with you to the station.''' " Impossible ! You cannot go on a day like this." 272 BENEATH THE WAVE. " Yes, I am going," said Hilda, decisively, " or shall I order one of the servants to drive you?" But Hayward shrank from the delay. No, he would go now; and so Hilda followed him out. They went through the wet park together and through the drifting rain. She was afraid in fact to leave him ; afraid to Uvxk him alone with the blank despair that was dragging at his heart. He asked her once or twice to return, but Hilda would not go. *' No," she said gently ; *' let me stay with you. The rain will do me no harm." She tried to say some commonplace words of consolation, but they seemed to die on her lips. In sight of great grief or death, it is almost impossible to speak. Words seem so cold when uttered in these terrible hours. At last they neared the station, and Hilda bade Hayward good-bye. Her hand trembled in his, and her sweet-toned voice faltered as she did so. The tutor was touched even amid his own pain by these signs of emotion. BENEATH THE WAVE. 273 Hilda's wistful eyes said so much when she raised them to his face ; they told him better than words could how truly she felt for him. "I pray God to bless you," said Hilda; and then she wrung his hand and turned away to hide the tears that dimmed her sight. "You have been very good to me/' said Hayward, and that was all. He, too, could frame no speech. His lips were quivering and his face quite pale. Hilda thought of that face as she hurried back to Massam through the blinding rain, and its expression helped her to come to a momentous decision in her own life. She had, indeed, no sooner reached the park than she went, wet as she was, in search of Mr. Trevor. She found him half asleep in the easy chair in the readingrroom of the library, where he had retired after lunch, with the Times still lying on his knee. But her approach awoke him, and he looked up in surprise. " My dear Miss Marston," he said, rising, VOL. I. T 274 BENEATH THE WAVE. as Hilda drew near to him, "you surely have not been out in this terrible weather ? " " Yes," answered Hilda, trembling. "And — I have come to tell you, Mr. Trevor," she went on, speaking quickly and in much agitation, " that I cannot marry you." The squire looked at her with the most profound astonishment. '* I do not understand you," he said. " I thoiight that it was agreed between us that a fortnight was to elapse before this subject was to be again mentioned ? " " Yes, I know," answered Hilda, " but I think now, something has happened now which has made me think that it is better to tell you at once — ^for, though I am very grateful to you, I have quite made up my mind." " Do you mean to reject my proposal ? " asked the squire, with immense dignity. " I cannot accept it," said Hilda, trembling all over. " I do not feel to you as a woman should feel to the man she is about to many. It would be wronging you if I were to accept BENEATH THE WAVE. 275 you," went on the poor girl, " and I feel I cannot do that." Mr. Trevor felt extremely indignant. Here was a girl without position, without a penny, daring to say such things to himl Mr. Trevor thought at that moment of the benefits with which he had loaded Hilda and her family, but he did not think of the girl's honesty in telUng him the truth. " I am utterly surprised at you," he said. '*Your conduct in coming here in this unseemly manner, on a Sunday, too, has absolutely astonished me. Your dress, also, is completely drenched. May I ask if you have been out in the rain ? " **Yes," answered HUda, and then she suddenly burst into tears. "Pray don't, Miss Marston," said Mr. Trevor, rising in great wrath, "there is not the slightest occasion for you to agitate your- self. I understand you reject my proposal 1 Ah — ^well, of course, under such circum* stances you can no longer continue an in- mate of my house." 276 BENEATH THE WAVE. "Very well," sobbed poor Hilda; and then she left him, going wet, weary, and very sad to her own room. When they assembled again before dinner time, Mr. Trevor at once noticed Hay- ward's absence. ** Is Mr. Hayward dining out ? " he inquired. No one at first made any answer. Isabel coloured faintly but did not speak, and Hilda also was silent. Mr. Trevor glanced from the one to the other, and then said, " Does any one know where he is ? " Then Hilda spoke. " He has left Massam," she said. " Left Massam ? " repeated Isabel. '* Yes," said Hilda, so consciously that the squire instantly concluded that Hayward was engaged to Hilda, and that this was the reason why she had rejected his own pro- posal. He felt more indignant, therefore, than ever. He felt so angry he could not eat his dinner, and Hilda could not eat hers, she felt so sad. She was thinking what dis- BENEATH THE WAYE. 277 appointment all this would cause in the broken home circle. And little Ned — ^poor little Ned ! Hilda s eyes nearly filled with tears again whenever she thought of her little brother. Would Mr. Trevor now cast him out homeless upon the world? Hilda kept thinking what she could do to make money, all through that melan- choly dinner hour. But no sooner was it over than Isabel attacked her about Hay- ward. ''What do you know about Mr. Hay ward leaving here ? " she asked, the moment the two were alone. " Have you seen him ? Did you see him go?" ''Yes, I saw him go," answered Hilda. " When, and how ? " then asked Isabel. " About four o'clock, I think," said Hilda. " He walked to the station." " What ! in aU the rain ?" "Yes, m aU the rain," said Hilda, with some bitterness. Isabel caught the tone of her voice, and looked at her searchingly. 278 BENEATH THE WAVE. " Do you know his motive for going ?" she asked sharply. Hilda's lips trembled, but she was silent. "I repeat," asked Isabel, imperiously, " Do you know his motive ?" "He did not tell me," said Hilda slowly; and with this answer Isabel was forced to be content. CHAPTER XVI. DELILAH. When Sir George Hamilton returned to Massam on the following day, and was in- formed that Hay ward was gone, he seemed greatly disturbed. Isabel told him in her usual careless fashion before her father and Hilda Marston. '* What do you think has happened," she said, " while you have been away ? " ''Of course I cannot tell," answered Sir George. "Your protdgd, Mr. Hay ward, has dis- appeared," said Isabel, with a slight blush. " I suppose," she added, " he must have been suddenly summoned home. He left after lunch yesterday." 280 BENEATH THE WAVE. cc And did he not say what was the matter ? Did he not say where he was going ? " inquired Sir George. '^ No, it seems not," replied Isabel. ** I did not see him before he left, but Miss Marston did, I believe. Did he say where he was going ?" she continued, turning to Hilda. ^^No," said Hilda, her face flushing as she spoke. " But — Sir George — " she added, addressing their host with some embarrassment, '^ he left a letter for you." " With you ? " asked Sir George. "Yes," answered Hilda. "I met him when he was leaving — and — ^he gave me a letter." Hilda hesitated and blushed, when she said this, and both Mr. Trevor and Isabel Trevor looked at her as she did so. '' You have kept this mysterious letter to yourself, then, it seems?" said Isabel, with an angry glitter in her eyes, after Hilda had finished speaking. " He gave it to me for Sir George," said Hilda, nervously. BENEATH THE WAVE. 281 ^'Oh, I have no wish to interfere with Sir George's letters," said Isabel, throwing back her head. " I wiU bring it," said Hilda; and she accordingly left the room for the purpose, Sir George looking after her as she did so. " It is very strange, is it not ? " he said, turning to Isabel as Hilda disappeared. '' How can I tell ? " she answered, with a sUght shrug of her fine shoulders. But she felt nervous. What might not Hay ward have written ? she was thinking. But she stood her ground. She watched Sir George as he opened Hayward's letter after Hilda had returned and placed it in his hands — watched his usually pale face flush as he eagerly read and re-read the few written lines it contained. Then he looked at her searchingly, and then, when for a moment Isabel's eyes fell before his, he put the letter silently into his pocket. ''Does he give any explanation for his absence?" inquired Mr. Trevor, pompously. " Yes," answered Sir George, briefly ; but 282 BENEATH THE WATE. Isabel knew when she heard that word, that she would hear more at some future time of Hayward's letter. She did so, the first moment that she was alone with Sir George. " Isabel," he asked, approaching his be- trothed with a grave and disturbed expres- sion on his face, "can you guess, do you know the contents of young Hayward's letter ? " *' No, I do not," answered Isabel, in a slightly defiant tone. "Yet he refers me to you," continued Sir George, "to explain the reason why he left. But you had better read his letter." And he put ^Hayward's letter in her hand. She took it and slowly read the few blotted and ill- written words. They were as follows : — " Deab Sir George, — I leave Massam to-day. Miss Trevor will probably explain to you why I am . going and tell you of BENEATH THE WAVE. 283 my presumption. I have nothing further to say, but remain, — Yours truly, '*P. Haywabd." "Well?" said Sir George, looking at Isabel, inquiringly, after she had finished reading the letter, and was commencing returning it to its envelope. " Well ! " she answered in her cool, proud way, " it was as he says — ^he forgot himself, that is all." " What do you mean ? " asked Sir George, quickly. ** He is a foolish young man," went on Isabel. " Because I said a few civil words to him — because, in fact, I naturally regarded him with interest, as he had saved your life, he presumed to imagine " And Isabel paused. "That you regarded him with a deeper feeling ? " said Sir George. " I warned you of this before, Isabel ! " And Sir George began hastily pacing the room, which was a sign with him of quick emotion. 284 BENEATH THE WAYS. As he did so, Isabel kept watching him with her bright and changeful eyes. *'He is a foolish young man," she said a^n presently. " And you are also to blame for this." ** How ? what do you mean ? " asked Sir George, suddenly stopping. *'You — made me angry," said Isabel, casting down her eyes. '* You know what I mean — ^you seemed at one time to avoid me — and if I misled the young man — I was foolish, too — for I did it in pique." " Is this so ? " said Sir George, going up to her and clasping both her hands and fixing his eyes upon her face. "Oh, Isabel, Isabel I " Yet he only half beUeved in her. Did Samson, I wonder, quite believe in Delilah's soft cozening words, or did he feel only powerless to resist them ? Sir George, at all events, was powerless in the white supple hands that could turn him to her will. He stood there looking at her, and then in passionate words of love began pleading that BENEATH THE WAVE. 285 their marriage might not be delayed. For a moment Hayward was forgotten. He only saw Isabel — Isabel, who cared nothing for him except as the owner of the broad lands which lay around them. It was all settled before the day was over. Mr. Trevor was told, and gave his pleased consent. Hilda Marston was told, and the very butler knew, as he waited at table that day, that he was attending his future lady. Isabel was a woman who loved all this. Adulation and praise were pleasant to her ears and flattery was sweet. She loved also the jewels which Sir George presented her, and when he asked leave to clasp round her slender white throat the sparkling sapphire that she had coveted the first night she was at Massam, and which Sir George had had set for her, she told herself, as she thanked him with her rosy lips, that she must learn in time to care for the giver of all these fine gifts. She felt very triumphant, too, when she told the " Featherstone girls " of her engage- 286 BEHBATH THE WA7H. ment and aaked them to be her brideamaub. Patty and La could scarcely coataui th^ aatoniahmeat, indeed, within the bonnds of good breeding when they heard the news^ *'So," said Lu, thonghtfblly, "all those stories about him were Kes, I suppose ? " '* Lies are not uncommon things, my good Lu," answered Isabel, smiling. " For my part, I never quite believe what I hear.** CHAPTER XVII. hatward's motheb* But we must return to Hayward, return to when Hilda Marston left him at the railway station, and when, with a crushing sense of pain, shame, and humiliaiion, he shortly afterwards started on his journey to town. He had taken a ticket for London, but almost without reason. His mother lived there, but he was not going to her. He only felt that there he would be unknown, for th^^ was a dark purpose in his heart and overwhelming bitterness in his souL Isabel Trevor, in &ct, had turned his life to galL What had been play to her was death to hinu He had loved her so much. 288 BENEATH THE WAVE. making an idol of her, with as blind an idolatry as the poor heathen gives to his imaged god. He sat in his carriage in the train, with his grey set face turned to the window, and his eyes apparently fixed intently on the drifting rain. There were other people in the carriage, but he scarcely saw them ; pleasant words exchanged, but he never heard them. He only felt that his life was blank for evermore, and that he had thrown all upon one cast and failed. Presently, at one of the stations, some of the passengers got out of the carriage. He saw them go, and that was all. One man, however, was left in it — a man who had been looking attentively at Hayward once or twice during the last half-hour. He was a clergyman. A tall, powerfully- made young man, with smooth fair hair, and a fair skin tanned. He had large, rather prominent, steady grey eyes, and with these he looked at Hayward again and again, as they travelled onward. He was, in fact^ BENEATH THE WAVE. 289 studying Hayward's face. Then, in a pleasant, clear-toned voice, when they were alone, he addressed him. *^ Pardon me for speaking to you," he said ; " are you not Mrs, Hayward's son V •^ Yes," answered Hayward, turning his grey set face a moment from the window, "I am Philip Hayward." "I thought I could not be mistaken," said the young clergyman, with a smile, ** I know your photograph so well, and your mother has so often talked to me of her Philip, that I was sure I was right. I am glad," he added, his face re-assuming its usual sweet, serious expression, "that she has written to you to go to her. I suppose she has told you the truth at last?" " What truth ?" asked Hayward, sharply. For a moment the young clergyman hesi- tated. Then he said with much gentleness, " I suppose you know she is very ill ?" " 111 !" repeated Hayward. *^ I have heard nothing of any illness. I know nothing of her being ill," VOL. I u 290 BENEATH THE WAVE. At this a disturbed expression crossed the clergyman's &ce. <^ I am indeed sorry to be the bearer of ill news, then,* he said, "but it is right that jou should know. Mrs. Hayward is, I fear, in a rapid consumption.'' ** It is impossible T exclaimed Hayward. '^ When last I saw her she was not strong, but she never is. May I ask you how you know of her being ill ? And when did you last see her?' '' I saw her about a week ago," answered the clergyman, '^ and I saw the doctor who attends her about the same time — and I grieve to tell you his opinion was veiy unfavourable. It was indeed after I had seen the doctor that I urged her so much to write to you. But you were on a visit, she told me — ^a visit to Sir George Hamilton — a visit from which she seemed to expect so much, and she could not bear to damp your enjoyment." At this Hayward could scarcely suppress the groan that rose to his lips. BENEATH THE WAVE. 291 "But when I saw you," continued the young clergyman, " I hoped that during my absence (for I have been a week out of town) she had broken through her resolve, •and told you of her illness." " No," answered Hayward, " I have heard nothing. I had a letter from her the other day, and she said nothing. I — I — am completely overwhelmed by the news." He turned away his head as he spoke. Of what was he thinking ? God ! what had he been about to do ? He had forgotten all about his poor mother in his dark despair. Had forgotten duty, affection, everything, under the blow which had struck him down. Now, he began to think. His mother — ^the gentle, tender mother, that had loved and watched over him all these years ! Oh, how could he have forgotten her ; how allow his selfish misery to drive everything else from his heart ! "Tell me all about her, sir," he said, in a broken voice, to the young clergyman sitting opposite to him. "How did you 292 BENEATH THE WAVE. get to know her ? How long has she been mV " I have known her about a year," answered the clergyman. " I am one of the curates of the parish in which she Uves. I ought to tell you my name, too. It is Horace Jervis. I got to know her when visiting in my district, and naturaUy soon became interested in her. She was ill, even when I first saw her — I think she told me that she had not seen you for nearly eighteen months ? " Hay ward thought for a moment, and then said : " Yes, it is just about eighteen months." " So she told me," went on Mr. Jervis, " and she also gradually told me her history. Then I learnt that my father and yours had been in the same regiment, the 84th, and this also naturally increased my interest in her and you. I have visited her constantly, and lately, as I told you, I have repeatedly urged her to tell you of her illness. But, with unselfish affection, she could not bear to give you pain." BENEATH THE WAVE. 293 " Oh I my God ! " groaned Hayward, and he covered his face. " It would be sad to see her," continued Mr. Jervis, " for at times she suffers greatly, if her soul were not so pure and white. I cannot help thinking of the angels when I look on your mother's face." Again Hayward groaned aloud. His soul was so blank and dark that the young clergyman's words struck him like a sword. " I — I — must seem a brute to you," he muttered. " Why ? " asked Mr. Jervis, surprised. ** You did not even know of your mother's illness. But you will go to her now. She will die now, where I am sure she wishes to die— in her dear son's arms." "Yes," said Hayward, and he bit his quivering lip. At that moment some of the vague doubtings and yearnings for lAghtj that had so often passed and repassed over his soul, recurred to Hayward. Was this meeting accidental, he thought, or had the hand of 294 BENEATH THE WAVE. God been put out to save him from a fearful crime? Opposite to him was the cahn, sweet, pleasant face of Mr. Jervis. Hay- ward looked at him with his gloomy eyes, wondering if the look of peace imprinted on it caane from eaxthly happiness. Then he thought of his mother — ^the mother whose life for the last twenty years had been a weary struggle. And she was dying now — dying, and he "I know that she has longed, almost passionately, and prayed most earnestly, to see you," said Mr. Jervis, interrupting Hayward's remorseful reflections. " I know this from little things she has said. But her faith is perfect. The very last time I saw her she told me that if it were God's will she would see you soon." "And yet — and yet — " said Hayward with deep emotion, ''unless I had met you " " Her prayers might have been answered in some other way," replied Mr. Jervis, quietly ; " for we are sure that none of them will be unheard." BENEATH THE WAVE. 295 He said this in the simplest way. There was ao feltoring or doubt in tiis yo^g man's beUef. Hayward, passion-tossed and miserable, looked with strange envy on the serene eyes and brow of this young curate. They were both about the same age — some twenty-six or seven years old, perhaps — and both were tall, strong, stalwart men. They were both brave, also. Hayward had plunged into a raging sea at a woman's bidding, with death staring him in the face; but Mr. Jervis faced death daily. He faced it in the fever wards of hospitals, in dreary dens of misery, poverty, and shame. He spoke of his work very quietly. He had chosen his vocation. Earth and Heaven were alike real to him, and he cheerfully toiled in one, sure of finding his reward in the other. In spite of himself, Hayward grew interested. Earnestness about anythiog inspires a thoughtful mind with respect, and Mr. Jervis was so much in earnest. By the time they reached London it was dark. 296 BENEATH THE WAVE. "It has been a dreary day," said Hayward, with a shudder. "Yes," said Mr. Jervis; but neither his manner nor his tone was dreary. Hayward, on the other hand, felt inex- pressibly miserable* He was conscience- stricken, and crushed down with a sense of his selfish cowardice. What, if he had stabbed his dying mother in his mad passion ! he thought, for he knew what in his bitter disappointment he contemplated doing would have been a blow to her more cruel than death. Mr. Jervis was very kind to him. Perhaps he saw that something even more terrible than his mother's illness was preying on Hayward's mind. At all events, he was very good to him, gentle, sympathizing, and considerate, though not obtrusively so. When they arrived in town, he proposed to accompany Hayward to the house where his mother lived. He had two motives for this : one, that he thought that in her present weak condition her BENEATH THE WAVE. 297 son's arrival should be broken gently to Mrs. Hayward; another, that he did not like to leave Hayward alone. Hayward made no objection to this proposal — nay, it was a sort of reUef to him to have a companion in this miserable hour. Mrs. Hayward was very poor. She had only her paltry pension as a lieutenant's widow, and the small sum that her son had been able to allow her out of his salary. Still Hayward was shocked and surprised when the cab in which the young men were seated stopped, by Mr. Jervis's directions, before the humble dwelling where the curate informed him his mother lived. It was only a common lodging-house, a lodging-house in Eanelagh Koad, in which two workmen and their families also lived. The poor widow had gone to this house to save. Her son was away, and she knew no one ; and so in this noisy, over-full house she existed, putting away each month half of the sum that Hayward had regularly sent her. 298 BENEATH THE WAVE. She had only one room — a room which looked into the street and at the great furniture-removing establishment opposite. She was too ill to go out, and she used to sit at the Avindow vaguely watching the great vans coming and going. It was a desolate Ufe, and yet this poor woman was not desolate. She lived there, hoping in God's good time to rejoin her husband; she lived there, praying for and thinking of her only son. That son felt almost utterly overcome as he entered the .house where she lived. A hard-faced woman, who opened the door in answer to Mr. Jervis's summons, received them, and on the curate inquiring for Mrs. Hay ward, said : ** I'm sure I'm glad you've come back, sir, to look after her. I don't know what to do with her, she's fearful ill — ^but per- haps this gentleman's some relation ?" And she looked at Hayward. Hayward made no answer. He was struck dumb with the appearance of poverty BENEATH THE WAVE. 299 around. His mother had written to him to tell him that she had changed her lodgings, but she had told him nothing more. " Where is her room T he asked hoarsely. *^ The first door upstairs, to the left, sir," answered the woman. ''She's been very- bad to-day. She ought to have some of her friends about her." "Let me go up first," said Mr. Jervis, laying his hand kindly on Hayward's arm. ''No," said Hayward, "no;" and he began ascending the narrow, uncarpeted stairs. When he reached the first door to the left he paused. It was slightly ajar, and he stood for a moment looking in. He saw inside a woman — a woman familiar, and yet not familiar — a woman on whose face death had set its stamp, and whose features were so sharpened and changed that he scarcely recognized them. Yet, it was his mother. Hayward saw this, and he saw also by the same light on the table, which flickered and fell on his mother's 300 BENEATH THE WAVE. pale face^ and on her pale, thin hand, that she was reading one of his own lettera— a letter that he had written from Massam when his heart had been full of hope. There she sat, reading and re-reading her son's words, as she had read them many a time before! She snuled <« she did so ; smiled, and then a sudden flood of hope, of joy, and almost of inspiration, seemed to pass over her heart. "0 God!" she murmured, looking upwards, *^ Let me see my dear boy's face before I die." When Hayward heard these words he came slowly forward, and the next moment he was clasped tightly in his mother's arms. END OP VOLUME FIRST. CHAPTEE I. HATWARDS RELATIONS. When Hayward felt himself clasped in his mother's arms, for a few momgnt» a sort of rest seemed to come over his misemble heart. There was someone in the world to loVe him still, he thought. Then when she asked him with fond affection, as she pushed back his hair and kissed his brow, " Why did you not tell me you were coming, my dear?"^ Hayward gave a bitter, conscience-stricken sigh. '' Why ? " Oh, poor mother ! She who held him to her breast, who kissed him as she had kissed him when he was a little VOL. n. B 2 BENEATH THE WAVE. « child^ must never hear this question truly answered. Hayward thought a moment. Then falteringly, and with quivering lips, he said — " I — I — came up unexpectedly. But, mother,'' he went on more firmly, " why did you not tell me you were ill ? " " I could not bear to spoil your pleasure, dear. You had worked so hard, and it must have been so pleasant for you at Sir George Hamilton's," answered Mrs. Hay- ward ; and as she did so, Hayward, with a violent eflfort for her sake, controlled his emotions. " Sir George Hamilton has left Massam for the present," he said, " and so I came away." " Oh, of course, dear," said Mrs. Hayward, " but you must tell me all about it, my Philip," she continued, smilingly — "all about the beautiful young lady, and ^" But at this moment, while Philip Hay- ward's quivering lips were framing a suitable reply, a rap came to the door of the room, and Mr. Jervis, the curate, appeared. BENEATH THE WAVE. 3. " May I come in ? " he asked in his gentle way. " Well, Mrs. Hayward, you see your son and I are already friends." "I do not understand," said Mrs. Hayward, looking from one young man to the other. "We travelled up together in the same carriage," exclaimed Mr. Jervis. " I knew him by his photograph," he added, smilingly, "and so took the liberty of introducing myself to him." " Oh, Philip ! " said Mrs. Hayward, with some agitation of manner, " you can never thank him enough for all his goodness to me ! " And she looked at Mr. Jervis. " He must not begin now, at any rate," said the curate, again smiUng kindly. " No," he added, holding out his hand, " he is tired, and you, Mrs. Hayward, are also tired, and so for this evening, with your permission, I shall take my leave." " No, do not go," said Hayward, eagerly. He was afraid to be left alone with his mother now — afraid of the ques- tions that he felt sure she would ask. 6 BENEATH THE WAVE. same hour was praying for her son. Hay- ward thought that he had deceived her the night before about his leaving Massam ; but the sight of love is clear and keen. Mrs. Hayward knew that something grievous had happened to her boy, and — ^womanlike — ^guessed that a woman was the cause. So in the dull grey morning, wdfch his grey set face, Hayward rose. Many things lay before him, for he had to begin a fight for daily bread. He would take nothing now from Sir George Hamilton, he told himself, and he was absolutely nearly penni- less. But he was well educated, young and strong. These were three things in his favour, but even with them he knew that employment was sometimes not easily nor directly obtained. He thought of his chances as he dressed himself. In the early part of this history it has been told how a certain Mr. Moxam was his mother's brother-in-law, and he had prospered of late. He was a merchant in the city, with great warehouses standing by the BENEATH THE WAVE. 7 river edge, to which bales were drawn up, and from which bales were let down daily, and in whose dusty fusty precincts money was made. When a young man he had married Mrs. Hayward's sister. They were the oi'phan daughters of a clergyman, and both pretty girls; but, as is too often the case, when their father died he left nothing behind him. So they were thrown upon the world, and went out as governesses. They both married. Mrs. Hayward accompanied the family of a colonel to India, and married Lieutenant Hayward, who was in the same regiment as her employer. Mrs. Moxam went to be the governess of a rich trades- man's family at Peckham, and married Mr. Moxam, who was nephew of the tradesman. Thus, when Hayward's father died, Mr. Moxam promised to educate his wife's sister's only son. And he did educate him, but while this process was going on his wife died, and he married again after a couple of years. This event naturally changed young Hay- ward's position. The first Mrs. Moxam left 8 BENEATH THE WAVE. two daughters, the second Mrs. Moxam had one son. So as years went on, and they grew richer, the second Mrs. Moxam began to grudge the money spent yearly on the first Mrs. Moxam's nephew. She grudged also the trifling assistance which Mr. Moxam had occasionally given his first wife's sister, ever since the days when, as a poor, young, broken-hearted widow, Mrs. Hayward had returned to England. Under these circum- stances Philip Hayward had felt himself almost compelled to leave college. He, in fact, accepted a tutorship, so as to be able at once to assist in supporting his widowed mother. Now we come to the time when he lived at Sanda; to the time when he first saw Isabel Trevor, and when he saved Sir George Hamilton's life. He had written a modest account of that incident to his mother. His mother was very proud of his conduct, and perhaps prouder of its results. Indeed, when she heard of Sir George's offer to push him on in any profession he might choose, she BENEATH THE WAVE. 9 was ftdl of joy, and when he went to stay at Massam, her hopes for his future life were veryhigh. She had seen nothing of her relations, the Moxams, for some time. They were getting on in the world, and did not therefore care to be stopped by poor relations. The girls remembered her, and sometimes (very rarely) mentioned "poor aunt Hayward." Mrs. Moxam the second did not care to be re- minded of her existence. So they let the poor widow drop out of their sight. They knew their cousin was a tutor " down in the North somewhere," but they did not care for cousins who were tutors. All this had grieved and annoyed poor Mrs. Hayward once, but the Moxams could not grieve or annoy her now. For one thing, she was about leaving the world for which the Moxams existed; for another, she had lately hoped that her son would live to rise fitr above them. Philip Hayward knew all these things. He despised and disliked Mr. Moxam, who 10 -BENEATH THE WAVE. ^ was pompous, silly, and ill-bred ; but for his mother's sake he made up his mind that he would go and beg Mr. Moxam to give him employment. He did not know of the poor little store his mother had laid bv. There was a letter lying ready written in her desk, addressed " To my dear son, to be given to him after my death," and in this letter there was an enclosure. The poor woman had literally grudged herself the necessaries of Ufe. She had faded faster because she had not taken what she ought to have taken, so that she might save this little sum for her son. Hay ward decided that he would not tell his mother of the application he was about to make to Mr. Moxam. It would be time enough to do that, he thought, when he had got work. He therefore went to her bedside on the morning after his arrival in London with forced smiles on his lips. Poor Mrs. Hayward was very ill. She was wasting and wearing fast away. Her face had a painfully transparent look, and her eyes BENEATH THE WAVE. 11 were large, big-pupilled, and glittering. But she was quite prepared to die. She put her hot hand into her son's and looked into his face and smiled. " God has been very good to me, my dear," she said, '^ and given me my heart's desire, for I prayed long to see my boy's face before I died." "And — yet you never sent for me, mother," faltered Hayward. " God sent you to me, dear," answered Mrs. Hajrward; and Hayward made no reply. He sat down by his mother s bed, and after a while began talking to her. But she asked him nothing about Massam. She knew he would tell her by-and-bye, when the gap which absence makes between those who love each other would gradually pass away. She had plenty to tell him. How good Mr. Jervis was to her, and all the troubles of her neighbours in the house. Her circle was so narrow that she was naturally 12 BENEATH THE WAVE. interested in the curly-pated children who tumbled up and down the stairs, and cried and screamed by turns. Of the Moxams she said nothing, for she had nothing to say. Philip was thankful for this. He feared to hear of some fresh slight, which would make his task a shade more bitter. So after sitting an hour or so with his mother he went down the uncarpeted stairs. As he descended he was met by the hard- faced landlady of the house. "Oh, sir, can I have a word with you, please ? " she said. " Certainly," answered Hajrward; and she accordingly ushered him into a small room at the back of the house. '' It's about that poor lady up-stairs," she began, after closing the room door. " You see that clergyman who comes here some- times told me last night that you were her son." "Yes, I am," said Hayward. "Well, then, you see," continued the woman, twisting the comer of her apron as BENEATH THE WAVE. 13 she spoke, " she's certainly not long for here. Anyone can tell by her face she's going fast, and to tell the truth T can't abide corpses in the house. I don't wish to be hard, but I must Uve, and coffins are awkward things to drag up and down stairs, and then I have two other parties to consider. So if you can make it convenient to take her away at the end of the week " And the landlady paused. Hayward's face blazed all over when he understood what she meant. " Do you call yourself a woman ? " he said. '• But she shall go." And without another word he left the landlady and the house. " Oh ! my poor mother," he thought, as he went along the streets. But this inter view nerved hun at once to encounter his intended one with his relation, Mr. Moxam. He meant to go to Mr. Moxam's place of business in the city, and not to his house. He had been at this place of business before, having gone there as a lad, and had nearly 14 BENEATH THE WAVE. always returned from these visits wounded and stung. His uncle, Mr. Moxam, was not troubled with fine feelings, and tenderness for the unfortunate was not one of his qualifications. He frowned, therefore, and grunted uneasily on the present occasion, when Hayward's card was brought up to him. " What can this chap want now ? " he said, putting the card into his son's hand. Let me describe the sire and son. Mr. Joseph Moxam, senior, was short, red-faced, and pursy. A man of narrow, warped, unintellectual nature, who made money his god, and who estimated a man exactly by the length of his purse. Not an uncommon type among his class, perhaps; but Mr, Moxam was a shade rougher, ruder, and harder than most of his fellows. Now for the son, Joseph Moxam, junior, as he was named in business transactions, "Young Joe " aa he was commonly called in the society he frequented. He also was short, with a narrow forehead, small mean-looking BENEATH THE WAVE. 15 blue-grey eyes, light musty hair, a high nose, and a mouth that unpleasantly pro- truded. He grinned when his father placed Hay- ward's card in his hand; a grin expressive of contempt, and expressive also of him. " Begging, I dare say T he said, face- tiously. " Not the right shop to come to, eh, then, Joe ? " said the sire. " Not the right ticket by any means ; but, let him try it on," said the son. Then entered Philip Hayward, pale, composed, and gentlemanly. He was not nervous about this interview now, and over his face had passed the shadow of a great grief. He bowed to his uncle and half- cousin, who nodded in return ; the old man extending two fat fingers patronisingly. " Well, sir," he said to Hayward, " and where are you from?" " I have come to ask a favour of you, Mr. Moxam," said Philip, in his clear voice. " Humph ! " said Mr. Moxam, senior. 16 BENEATH THE WAVE. "Thought so/' muttered Mr. Moxam, junior. "Can you give me, or get me, some employment?" continued Philip Hay ward, briefly. "Thought you had a berth," answered Mr. Moxam, senior. " A tutorship or some- thing of that sort, down in the North? Have you got the sack?" " No, sir," replied Hayward, still calm and cold. " But my mother is dving , and I therefore ™h for Lployment ii £ndon.» " Dying ! " echoed the old man. " Non- sense ! " "Yes, sir, dying," repeated Hayward. " The doctor gives no hope. She has only a short time to live." Mr. Moxam, senior, moved his stout little body rather uneasily at this piece of infor- mation, and a sort of feeling stirred within him under the left side of his waistcoat. He remembered at that moment his first wife and her pretty sister. Remembered how proud his poor Anna had been of her sister BENEATH THE WAVE. 17 manying an officer, and the bright happy letters that had come from the young bride in India. Then he remembered the widow coming home — ^the woman who was dying now. " Humph ! " he said again, " this is bad news." " So you will understand," continued Hay- ward, ^* that I cannot leave her. I am ready, therefore, to accept anything you can give me ; and I think I could undertake a clerk's work." " So you should be, lad ; so you should be, after the education I gave you," said the old man. " For which I am very grateful," said Hayward, slowly. "Well, I'm not grudging it," said Mr. Moxam, pompously. "It's a great thing education, and a man ought to be grateftd for it; and if your poor mother really is so ill " At this moment yoimg Joe winked his eye at his sire. VOL. II. c 18 BENEATH THE WAVE. " No humbug about all this, is there, now ?" said the old man, roughly, taking the hint from his offspring. "You are not trying it on, are you, eh ?" " What do you mean ?" asked Hayward. "Your mother is ill, I suppose?" went on Mr. Moxam. " She is dying," again repeated Hayward, but this time his face flushed. "Well, well, I hope not," said Mr. Moxam. "At all events you think you ought to be near her — ^humph ! — well, we must see what we can do. Joe, come in here a moment, will you ?" Joe followed his father into an inner office, and the two remained there together for about a quarter of an hour. Then Mr. Moxam reappeared. " I've been talking it over with my son," he said pompously, "and we find we have no vacancy in our office at present, and so are unable to offer you employment. But my wife's brother, Mr. Newcome (Salkeld and Newcome, the printers), want, BENEATH THE WAVE. 19 I understood from Newcome last Sunday, a literary chap with a good education, as ' reader ' or something of that sort, in their establishment. There ! do you think that will do for you ? It's only to read over novels and bosh, I understand, so I think you ought to be up to it." "I think, perhaps, I could manage it,'^ answered Hayward, with a grim smile. "Well, then, I'll say a word for you,'* continued Mr. Moxam, **I'll tell you what — come down and dine with us next Sunday, at Florentia Villa, Brixton, sharp two,'and you'll meet Newcome himself. And now give my respects to your mother,'* and Mr. Moxam held out his two short fingers. "Sorry she's so ill, but hope she'll pull through. Good morning." And Hayward's interview with his rich rela- tions was over. Then he returned to his mother's lodging, purchasing on his way thither, almost with his last pound, a few little luxuries that he thought would please her. Her eyes 20 BENEATH THE WAVE. brightened, and she smiled softly when she saw them. Her boy had thought of her. This was what she was thinking of as she put her thin fingers through his dark hair, and murmured her fond thanks. But stem care was in Hayward's heart. The absolute want of money was oppress- ing him, for he knew that his dying mother could not now remain in the house where she was. He sat there holding her hand, thinking what he should do. Then he remembered the gentle parson down at Sanda, and he knew that the Rev. Matthew would help him if he could. So by-and-bye he sat down and wrote to that good friend. He told him circumstances had happened which prevented him now accepting aid from Sir George Hamilton, but that he hoped soon to obtain work. In the meantime he was in immediate want of a small sum of money for the purpose of removing his dying mother to more comfortable rooms. Five pounds would be sufficient for this purpose ; and this, with a burning blush BENEATH THE WAVE. 21 paBsing over his face, and, with a trembUng hand, he asked the Rev. Matthew to advance him. " For my mother*s sake," he told himself again, as he did this, as he had told him- self when he went to ask his uncle, Mr. Moxam, for employment. But it was bitter, very bitter. Life is often so, but to be forced to borrow money is inexpressibly galling to a sensitive heart. Yet nothing is sweeter to a generous one than to lend it. When, therefore, the Rev. Matthew received his late tutor's letter on the following day, he only felt regret that he was poor, and true sympathy for Hay ward. But it never crossed his mind to grudge the few pounds that he was so glad to have it in his power to lend. Poor Hayward had asked for five, but the kindly parson went at once to his desk and took out ten. This did not leave many behind; but without a word to wife or daughter, he put his hardly-earned money into his pocket and started to the post- 22 BENEATH THE WAVE. office, sending from thence an order for the amount to Hayward. But he sent something else as well, — ^kind, thoughtful, gentle words; an offer that whenever he chose his old home at Sanda was open to him; and though it must be admitted that he felt some curiosity as to the cause of Hayward's rupture with Sir George Hamil- ton, he made no inquiries on the subject. '* It will be about a woman, no doubt," thought the parson, shaking his head, though there was no one near to see him. " Ah, ah, they bring a vast deal of trouble." Then there came into his mind something his wife had told him about Miss Trevor. Mrs. Matthew had warned Hayward about her, and she had told her husband that she had warned him. They had been staying in the house together, the parson pondered. Was this it ? " Poor lad, poor lad !" was his next thought, and with another shake of his head he began reflecting on Miss Trevor's charms. Miss Trevor, as we know, went upon the BENEATH THE WAVE. 23 principle of trying to fascinate all men. Once or twice therefore, for amnsement, or for the pleasure of seeing Mrs. Irvine look disturbed, she had condescended to bestow a few smiles on the parson. The parson remembered what he had felt when he received these few sweet smiles at this moment, and he gave a little sigh, and his comical look stole over his face. " And I am fifty," he was thinking, " and poor Hayward quite a young fellow still !" When he returned home after despatching the money order to Hayward, the first person that he encountered was his wife. "Matthew," said Mrs. Irvine, in her hollow tones, " I've a piece of news for you. '* Well, my dear ? " meekly asked the Rev. Matthew. "You must guess," said Mrs. Matthew, with grim jocularity. The parson thought. " You have found the lost teaspoon ? " at last he said. 24 BENEATH THE WAVE. " No such luck," replied Mrs. Irvine ; "guess again." To please her (for he was very sweet- tempered) the parson made various guesses, all relating to Uttle household affairs, but to each of his suggestions Mrs. Irvine solemnly shook her head. At last, the Rev. Matthew declared he had exhausted all his surmises, and asked his wife to keep him no longer in suspense. "I always said it," then remarked Mrs. Irvine. " But what is it, my dear ? " asked the parson. "Miss Trevor has succeeded," answered Mrs. Matthew, with a certain amount of triumph in her tone. " I always said it, did I not, Matthew? and now my words have come true." Then Mrs. Irvine proceeded to tell her tale. Miss Trevor's maid, Fanny Becker, had written to her cousin, Jane Becker, who was cousin to Mrs. Irvine's cook, that Miss Trevor was engaged to Sir George Hamil- BENEATH THE WAVE. 25 ton; that the family were to return very shortly to the Hall, and that the marriage was to take place soon after their arrival. The parson listened to the news, and then he remembered Hay ward's letter. So this was the probable cause why Hayward had parted with Sir George Hamilton — this ! " It's a great marriage for her, I suppose ?" he said, after a moment's silence. • " That Mr. Hannaway, who was down about the time of the wreck of the yacht, told me that Sir George Hamilton is a very rich man." " That's why she is going to marry him," answered his wife, sharply. " You should not say that, my love," said the gentle parson. *^ But I do say it," reiterated Mrs. Irvine. " Matthew, mark my words," she continued, '^ if ever there was a bad woman in the world she's one; if ever there was a heartless woman in the world, she's one also, and you men will live to find it out." And having thus distinctly expressed her opinion, Mrs. Irvine left her husband to his reflections. CHAPTEE II. FLOEENTIA VILLA. The parson's ten pounds came like a gift from God. It enabled Hayward to pay off his mother's heartless landlady, to procure her fresh rooms, and to buy her various small comforts absolutely necessary for her condition. Thus the last few weeks of Mrs. Hay- ward's life were perhaps the most beautiful and peaceful ones she ever spent on earth. We aU, more or less, I believe, live on hope. It is not the present that we clothe in shining light, but the dim horizon that we scarcely see. Her hope now lay beyond the earthly boundaries, and far away in imagination she seemed to realize the golden BENEATH THE WAVE. 27 land beyond. Hayward, passion-tossed and world-weary, stood awestruck by his dying mother's side. Hating his life here, he yet could not rise above it. A beautiful face came between him and peace — a beautiful face between him and hope. But he had set himself a task, and he meant to fulfil it. This was to comfort his mother's last days ; to let her soul pass away imdisturbed to rest. It was in a neat and modest house, over- looking the Chelsea pensioners' gardens, where he had found her a home. For hours when she was asleep, he would sit watching the veterans, for whom ^* life's fitful fever " was about over, walking stiffly about, arguing and quarrelling. It was like a peep into the other days. There was one old man that he had once travelled with in an omnibus to the city. He was in the last stage — drivelling, childish. A bold, ill-bred man, who was in the omnibus also, had on this occasion begun " chaffing," as he called it, the old soldier. 28 BENEATH THE WAVE. " So youVe been in hotter climates than this, I suppose, old fellow ? " asked this obtrusive traveller; but the poor pensioner scarcely seemed to understand. Then a comrade, who accompanied him, and who was perhaps ten years younger, spoke up. ^^He's not been in India, sir," he said, " but he served in the Low Countries. He's a Waterloo man." And as his friend spoke, the old man nodded his head, and laughed aloud. Yes, memory came back at the well remembered word, and he was ready to tell his tale, the tale he had told a thousand times before, and which brought such stirring memories to the listeners' hearts. Hayward used to watch this old fellow hobbling about on the verge of the grave, from his mother's windows. In his day, perhaps, he had been brave and happy ; now he was only testy, drivelling, and selfish. It was one of the lessons of life, was it not ? The lessons which the thinker daily learns. The curate, Mr. Jervis, grew deeply BENEATH THE WAVE. 29 interested in Hayward. He saw that he was unhappy, and the eflTorts that he made to conceal this appealed to the curators sympathies. Many solemn conversations the two young men held together, as they wandered up and down m the evenings, by the dusky river's edge. They had begun life about the same time, but from two very different starting points. Horace JeL wa, the ^ of a rich man, Philip Hayward of a very poor one. But a shadow had fallen on the Jervis family while Horace was yet a boy, and the bitterest blush that had ever dyed his cheeks had been for his mother. He had been a refined and sensitive lad, and the agony and shame that he had then endured had left for a long time a most marked impression on his mind. But this was not to last. Accidentally, one evening, he accompanied a jGriend to hear a well-known and eloquent preacher, and the words he listened to that night coloured his whole future lite. He went into the Church after this, and 30 BENEATH THE WAVE. laboured, as most men labour, for fame or wealth. He was so much in earnest. There was no doubt in his faith, no fear. Hay ward used to look into his sweet calm face with a strange longing and envy. They were such a contrast — a contrast in everything, except that both were true and honest men. So they became friends. They made no protestations of this, for they were English- men, and therefore shy of professing attach- ment; but the bond, nevertheless, grew up between them, and this friendship was a great source of comfort and thankfulness to Mrs. Hay ward during her last days. But we must now return to Mr. Moxam, of Florentia Villa, Brixton. With untold aversion in his heart, Hayward had pro- ceeded to avail himself of this gentleman's invitation to dine with him on the Sunday following Hayward's interview with him in the City. He went by the train, and had not much difl&culty in discovering his uncle's residence, for " Florentia Villa" was engraved in brass plates on the pillars of the gateway; BENEATH THE WAVE. 31 " Florentia" being on one pillar, and " Villa'' on the other. Inside the house and grounds corresponded with this arrangement. Here was everything in a small way. A lawn, a greenhouse, a sun dial ! Everything about the place was new, and fresh with paint. Mr. Moxam himself, fat and pursy, stood on the lawn as Hayward opened the gate, and when he recognized his first wife's nephew he held out two fat fingers in welcome. " Ha, humph, so you've come, have you, sir?" he said. "Well, glad to see you. Newcome, Mrs. M.'s brother, will be here presently. See what you can do with him. He Wants a chap of your sort, I believe — but, then, there's always a dozen fellows out of employment after every situation that casts up." " Yes, there is scarcely elbow-room in England, I think," replied Hayward. " Elbow-room ? What d'ye mean by that? There's elbow-room and arms-room, too, for men who will work steadily, sir. Look at me. Where would I have been, d'ye think, 32 BENEATH THE WAVE. if I had sat down with my hands before me ? No, it's * the early bird gets the worm' — ^and another thing, mind ye, sir, * rolling stones do not gather any moss.' " Nothing could exceed the self-satisfacti(Hi of Mr. Moxam's looks as he uttered these two old adages. There he stood, he was thinking, on his own lawn, with his own greenhouse behind him, and his own villa, filled to the very brim with expensive furniture; and all this was his own doing. After all he had some reason to be proud. There had been days of struggle in his career, as there are days of struggle in most men's, and he had stoutly weathered the storm. He was pompous, vulgar, and ill- bred ; but he had been industrious, steady, and hard-working ever since he knew the meaning of the words. So now he was reaping the reward; and one of his enjoy- ments was to snub every poor man who came in his way. This Sunday, therefore, was very pleasant to him. Newcome, the printer, Mrs. BENEATH THE WAVE. 33 Moxam's brother, owed him two thousand pounds, which he had borrowed ; and Newcome, therefore, trembled before him. Hayward owed him his education, and was now a candidate for his patronage; so he could say what he liked to Hayward, and accordingly, during the day, he said various things more or less disagreeable. Mrs. Moxam, the second, was not an un- fitting mate for her pompous self-satisfied little spouse. She, too, thought she had done well in life, and was proud of having^ done so. She was one of those women who live for their own narrow circle, and whose servants and dinners, and the servants and dinners of her acquaintances, served ta occupy her whole mind. Her stepdaughters, the Misses Moxam,^ were also not very interesting. Miss Moxam was past thirty, and was jealous of her step- mother's position in her father s house. She was always giving orders to the servants, and then referring them in a marked manner to "mamma." Nothing gave her so much VOL. II. D 34 BBKEATH THB WATB. pleasure as for anything to go wrong in the household. " I tiiink I told yon, mamma," ?he would say. "I believe I so^eeted," and so on. She was not handstmiet bat neutral tinted all over. Her eyes, her hair, hor skin, were all a pale, rather dingy drab^ and her character corresponded. She never got into a passion, she never coloured with generous warmth on any subject; but she gave her fiiiends, and her stepmother in particular, little stabs occasionally, and felt a feeble pleasure in doing so. Her younger sister, Ellen, was much of the same type. She, however, was better looking, and had an admirer, and both these iacts had a softening influence. Young Joe, their stepbrother (the present Mrs. Mosam's son), used to say of his stepsisters to his chosen companions, " that there was a pair of them, but Ellen was the best of the two." These young ladies received Hayward bfioldly at first They had been told by their r thi^ he was in bad circumstances, and, , it was natural that they should BSNSATH THS WAYS* 35 d(> SO. But they were women, and Hayward was goodlooking and gentlemanly, so by- and-bye they began to thaw. His appear* anoe also was not'without its influence on his mide's second wife. When, therefore, her brother, Mr. Newcome (of the printing establishment of Salkeld and Newcome) arrived, he fomid the party all talking very pleasantly together. He (Mr. Newcome) had a sour look. He had not been very prosperous in business for one thing, and he disliked his brother-in-law Moxam intensely for another. "Ha! Newcome," said Mr. Moxam, putting out the two £Ett fingers that with him did duty for a handnshake, when Mr. Newcome arrived. *' This is young Hayward," continued the rich man, indicating Hayward by a jerk of the thumb in his nephew s direction. " The young fellow I told you of. He ought to understand correcting novels and rubbish, for his education cost enough — ^but you can talk it over." 36 BENEATH THE WAVE. Upon this Mr. Newcome smiled more sourly still. He was a peculiar looking man, with small features and thick brown hair, which gave you the impression that it was a wig, though it was not one. He had been for years the working partner of the firm to which he belonged, and had read and cor- rected scores and scores of novek in his day. Perhaps this had soured him. At all events, life had evidently not been pleasant to him, for his expression was habitually sneering and wearied. He made a slight bow to Hayward after Mr. Moxam's introduction, and then looked into his face. He had been prepared to see something disagreeable in Mr. Moxam's nephew, but he now saw (and he was not a bad judge) a thoughtful clever face. " So you want to go into my line ? " he said, addressing Hayward. ** I want employment, sir," said Hayward, "and I think I have been fairly educated." Only a few words, but how much a few words may tell ! They were enough at least BENEATH THE WAVE. 37 for Mr. Newcome. Before the abundant family dinner which followed was over, Mx, Newcome had resolved to give Hayward a chance. During this dinner, "young Joe/* the present Mrs. Moxam's son, made his appearance. The fond mother would have waited for her oflfepring, but when the dinner hour arrived Mr. Moxam took out his great gold watch, and shook it angrily. " Sharp two, I said, did I not, Maria ? ** he said, looking at his wife. "But Joe's not in," said Mrs. Moxam, glancing at the elaborate timepiece on the mantelpiece. " I said two, Joe or not Joe," said Mr. Moxam. " Dinner, Maria." And dinner accordingly wa^ served. After the soup and fish had been removed, Joe (around whom lingered a strong odour of smoke) entered the room. " Humph ! " said his father, glancing at him; "did you not know the dinner hour, sir?" Mr. Moxam said this gruffly enough ; but S8 BBKBATH THE WAVE. hi. round, Bfcaxing grey ey^ had a kindly expression in them when he looked at this graceless youth. As for his mother she absolutely adored him. He was twenty times worse than the old man. He was mean-minded, snobbish, and vulgar m the extreme ; but in her eyes he was all but perfection. She admired his loud ties and canary-coloured gloves. She boasted of the Society that he was in (she little guessed of what sort) to her various acquaintances. '* Joe's off to one of his balls to-night," she would say, with fond maternal pride ; and she was ready to excuse late hours and misdemeanours of all kinds, in the belief that " Joe " was shining, as became him, among his admiring friends. If it were possible, Mr. Newcome disliked his nephew more than his brother-in-law. Young Joe irritated him almost past endur- ance. He, turned, therefore, during the bustle consequent on his appearance, and addressed himself almost exclusively to Hayward. BENEATH THE WAVE. 39 " If you will call at Southampton Buildings to-morrow, at ten/' he said, " I will see if we can come to some arrangement. It's nothing great, remember, I have to offer. Hard and worrying work, and a small salary — ^but if you really wish for employment ? " " I do really wish for employment, sir," replied Hayward, earnestly. And the sour man he addressed gave a slight nod of his head. At this moment both Hayward's ears and Mr. Newcome's caught an inquiry addressed by young Joe to his mother, which they were supposed not to hear. ** I say, mother, what's making old Types more crusty than usual ? " asked Mr. Joe of that fond parent. Then old " Types " (Mr. Newcome) looked at Hayward with an ironical and bitter smile. A smile which betrayed some of the contempt and aversion with which he regarded his sister's son. CHAPTER III. AMONG TYPE. Hatward went down to Southampton Buildings on the following morning at ten o'clock, and saw Mr. Newcome. It was a dismal morning, and it seemed a dismal place. It was in one of the smaller streets near Covent Garden Market that the print- ing offices of Messrs. Salkeld and Newcome were situated, and here (after climbing up the dark dusty staircase) he was ushered into Mr. Newcome's presence. Mr. Newcome looked sourer than ever. He was sitting correcting proofs at his desk, and his brown, curly, wig-like hair was rough, and his face was flushed, and he had a pen thrust, as it were, indignantly behind his ear. BENEATH THE WAVE. 41 **0h, it's you?" he said, looking up as Hayward appeared. " Well, so you think you can do this sort of stuff, do you ?" And he dashed his hand down expres- sively on part of the proof before him as he spoke. " If you give me a chance I will try/' answered Hayward, with a smile. " It's nothing to smile 'about, I can tell you," continued Mr. Newcome pettishly. " Why people write such stuff — why women who ought to be engaged making puddings — anything useful — waste ink and paper as they do, I cannot conceive !" And Mr. Newcome once more dashed his hand indig- nantly down on the proofs. " Well, it's not all stuff," said Hayward. **Well, not all," unwillingly admitted Mr. Newcome. '* But it's no use talking of it," he added. " I want a man to take my place for a time. Do you think you can do it ?" And then with both shrewdness and cleverness he explained what he wanted to Hayward. As he went on he saw he had 42 BBNEATH THE WAVE. got hold of the right man. Hayward had a clever face and a clear head. He understood at once what Mr. Newcome wished to convey. " Yes, sir," he said, " I think I can do it," after Mr. Newcome had finished his explanations. " Then begin to morrow," said Mr. New- come ; and thus Hayward became '^reader" in the printing establishment of Messrs. Sal- keld and Newcome. It was not, as Mr. Newcome had told him, a very interesting or instructive em- ployment. The firm printed novels almost exclusively, and so from morning until night Hayward was immersed in a world of fiction. Oh, the involved sentences he had to wade through before he came to the happy or miserable denouement of many plots ! Lost often, both author and reader apparently became, in mazes and entanglements which seemed to have no end. But, on the other hand, fresh and bright there came to him sometimes glimpses of fresh bright minds. BSNEATH THE WAVE. 48 The men and women who but Kved and died on paper grew realities to him, and he seemed to pass through scenes pictured by subtle pens. Mr. Newcome had no imagination, there- fore imaginative works had no attraction for him. Hayward, on the contrary, read with eagerness the writings of those who could pourtray what he felt. Once with grim amusement Mr. Newcome stood unseen a few moments behind his new "reader" watching him sitting literally rapt in some proofs lying before him. Hayward's soul was not in the dull dusty office. It had passed away from beneath the leaden Novem- ber sky above ; from the roar and din of the traffic around him. He was following the temptations of another man's heart. He was standing on the seashore and hearing the waves, whose cadence broke at the spell of the writer's words. Newcome, sour and practical, looked with astonishment at the expression of Hayward's face. Then he gave him a sharp tap on the shoulder, and at 44 BENEATH THE WAVE. his touch the dusty office, the dreary sky, the din around, came back to the " reader's *' mind. "You don't say you can really interest yourself, now, in such bosh ? " asked Newcome. "This is not bosh, sir," answered Hay- ward, with kindling eyes, laying his hands on the proofs before him. " I would give all my life to be able to make men and women live as this man does." " It's just a trick," answered the cold practical printer. "A trick of the hand, perhaps," said Bayward, "which draws the pictures that the soul has seen. These men and women," he went on, again touching the proofs, " that now Uve for us, have Uved for their Creator. The passions that he makes them feel, he has felt ; their struggles, their disappoint- ments must all have passed through the writer's ^heart 1 " "Pity him, then," pithily observed Newcome, shrugging his shoulders. BENEATH THE WAVE. 45 ** Oh ! no, sir ! " said Hayward, with enthusiasm. " How can we pity one who must have such inward consciousness of power ? — ^who can look in a man s face and weigh him justly in a balance — ^who sees so far beyond what we see, that the very thoughts of those around him flow from his subtle pen." " Don't believe it," said Newcome. " D'y® tell me, now, that one of these writer fellows — aye, the best of them — could look at me and tell what was passing in my mind ? " Hayward wisely only laughed in answer to this question. Mr. Newcome believed himself to be a very clever man, who had not met with his deserts. He viewed his neighbours through what he thought were calm, sarcastic, but very superior spectacles. He saw the follies of mankind, and alas, poor man! forgot his own. He was sour, bad-tempered, and not very grateful. For instance, he felt no gratitude to his brother- in-law, Moxam, for lending him two thousand pounds ; yet that two thousand pounds had 46 BENEATH THE WAVE. undoubtedly saved him from bankruptcy. But, on the other hand, he was a shrefwd and, in some ways, certainly a clever man. But it was a hard, uninteresting, self-satisfied cleverness. His mind was not big enough to see how httle he was, for humility belongs to higher and clearer perceptions than hi» were. He could not understand Hayward's enthusiasm, therefore ; but Hayward could understand him. The shrewd narrow mind lay open to his " reader's " large, unsatisfied, self-condemning soul. Yet they got on fairly well together. Hayward was industrious, steady, and atten- tive ; and Mr. Newcome fully appreciated all these qualities. His brother-in-law Moxam asked him how the young man was getting on, and was so well pleased with the answer that he commanded his "Maria" to write and ask the *' young fellar " again to dinner. *' I don't forget he's my nephew-in-law any more than I did not forget Newcome is my brother-in-law when I lent him that BENEATH THS WATE. 47 two thousand pounds, Maria/' he said, upon Mis. Moxam making some slight objection to his proposal ; and after this hint (as he called it) " Maria " complied with her husband's request. Thus Hayward received a second invi- tation to Florentia Villa, and did not enjoy his second visit there any more than his firsi. His eldest drab-tinted cousin was distantly civil ; but the younger one, Ellen, was a little kinder. Still, though Hayward was so good looking, she was afraid to be very friendly^ These young women had been brought up with the idea that all poor people are better avoided. Mr. Moxam,^ senior, gave you the impression that he was always mentally buttoning his breeches pockets at the sight of anyone who wanted anything. Mr. Moxam, jimior, never " threw away money," as he called it, on anything but his own gratification. Charity of any sort he called " lost money." Thus he regarded Hayward with suspicion. He was afraid " the fellar " would upon some excuse or other turn round 48 BENEATH THE WAVE. and endeavour to borrow five pounds of him. Not that young Mr. M oxam was not quite capable of guarding his own purse. He could do this, and was as acute in pecuniary transactions as any young man of his own stamp in England. " How's your mother ? " asked Mr. Moxam, senior, during this second visit, shortly after his nephew's arrival at Flo- rentia Yilla. " She's just about the same/' answered Hayward, in his grave sweet-toned voice. " The doctor says that during the last few days he sees no change." "Humph!" said Mr. Moxam, pulling at his thick gold watch chain. '* Maria," he continued, with a sudden burst of generosity, for the memory of his first young wife and her girl sister for a moment again came back to him, " isn't there any kitchen stuff — ^mutton broth or the like — ^you could send Mrs. Hayward — and a few grapes ? " '• I will see about it," answered the second Mrs. Moxam, repressively. And, accord- BBNEATH THE WAVE. 49 ingly, a few days afterwards two small tin cases of soup and some foreign grapes were left at Mrs. Hay ward's lodgings ; Mrs. Moxam thinking that she thus fulfilled every duty of Christian kindness to her husband's dying sister-in-law. It seemed like passing into another world to Hayward when he reached the small but cheerful rooms at Chelsea, where his mother lived, after this second dreary visit to the Moxams. With his mother he found Horace Jervis. The evening service at his church was over, and he had come to sit an hour with his dying friend. Everything in the room had such a peaceful look as Hayward entered it. The sick woman was lying back in an easy chair by the fire, and she had now comforts, nay even luxuries, around her, — a bouquet that Hayward had bought her from Covent Garden, splendid grapes that Jervis's generous hand had supplied. The poor lady, who had pinched and half- starved herself so that she might return to her son some of his hard earnings, was now VOL. II. E 50 BENEATH THE WAVE. supported by wine and everything she could take. Thus the breath of life within her, which had flickered so very low, had gained a temporary strength. Mrs. Hayward looked much better than she had done when her son had come back to her. True, the deadly disease had too firm a hold upon her frail frame to leave it, but the comforts that she now possessed naturally soothed and supported her. " We have been talking of you, my dear," she said, as Hayward approached. *' Have you ? " he answered, and he kissed her cheek. "And how have you enjoyed yourself, Phil ? " asked Mrs. Hayward, fondly. ^*You know the .Moxams, mother," said Hayward, " that is a sufl&cient answer;" and he sat down with a wearied sigh, putting his hand over his face to screen it from the fire. It^was a simple action, but the way he did it told so much. He was tired and dis- heartened. Struggle as he might with his BENEATH THE WAVE. 51 feelings, he could not throw off the blight that had fallen upon him. It had spoiled his life. He might do his duty, was doing it; but the hopeful future, natural to his years, was now not for him. Both his mother and Mr. Jervis heard his sigh; both his mother and Mr. Jervis knew he was unhappy. " Each time I see her — ^pardon me. Hay- ward — but I was teUing your mother, when you came in, about a poor parishioner of mine " presently said Mr. Jervis. ^'Each time, Mrs. Hayward, I assure you^ that I see her, it seems to be like a renewal of the promise, ^ And their last days shall be peace/ " ^' And she seems so happy ? " asked Mrs. Hayi^ard in a low tone. ** More than happy," answered the curate, " she is radiant and full of joy. Lying there chained to her bed by a terrible disease^ she knows her release is close at hand, and that each pang she feels brings her nearer to eternal rest." 4( ~ 52 BENEATH THE WAVE. "Does she talk of her death much?" said Mrs. Hayward. Not as death," replied Mr. Jervis, but as the entrance gate to heaven. Her journey through the dark valley is nearly done." As Mr. Jervis said this his face coloured and his eyes lit. Hayward sitting in the shade watching him, began to ^think what a blessed thing this faith must be !— this strength which carried you above disappoint- ment, disease, and death. He had set his affections on an earthly idol, aad when it w^ shattered his life seemed done. But these servants of God, his mother and Mr. Jervis, were full of hope. They accepted their earthly troubles meekly, looking steadily all the while beyond. "It is well that some people can find comfort even in their darkest hours," said Hayward, half bitterly, half sadly, after a few moments' reflection. " Comfort !" repeated Jervis, " comfort, indeed ! Hayward, come with me some day BENEATH THE WAVE. 53 and see this woman of whom I have been speaking! Looking at her from a worldly point of view every misery is hers ; looking at her from a higher and heavenly one she is more to be envied than the richest and fairest woman in this land." *' And you go to see her ! You talk to her T asked Hayward. " I go to see her, and I talk to her/' replied the curate; "and each time that I do so I come away strengthened and impressed. Humbly, indeed, I ask that my end may be like hers." Hayward did not speak, but he got up and began pacing the Uttle room restlessly. What would he give to feel Uke this, he was thinking. Marvellous faith that tri- umphed over all earthly ills ; that shone brightest and clearest amid what unsus- tained mortaUty shuddered at ! " Come and see her, Hayward," again urged Mr. Jervis. '^Let her teach you a lesson." " I indeed need one*/ answered Hayward. 54 BENEATH THE WAVE. And then after a few more words the curate went away, not, however, before he had fixed a time when he would take Hayward to see his dying parishioner. CHAPTEK IV. A CHANGE. It was dreary weather. A chill, cold, wet November ; and very dreary it often seemed to Philip Hayward. Every day he went down to Mr. Newcome's office, and every day sat correcting and revising proofs. Sometimes, as I have said before, bright little bits came to him ; sometimes he forgot Mr. Newcome ; forgot Isabel Trevor ; forgot to be weary and tired of everything ; but it was very seldom. For the most part his work was monotonous and fatiguing. He, however, gave satisfaction to his employer, for Mr. Newcome was shrewd enough always to recognize ability. Thus things went on. Hayward heard 56 BENEATH THE WAVE. once or twice from Sanda; heard from the kindly parson, who, after communing with himself on the subject, thought it best to tell the news of Miss Trevor s approaching marriage to his late tutor. Hayward read the words, and though they contained no news they seemed to fall like a blow upon his heart. The November sky seemed to be drearier to him that day than it had ever seemed before, the air closer and more oppressive. He had been trying to become reconciled to his lot. He had gone with his friend the curate to see those who had made him blush for himself. But after he had read the Rev. Matthew's letter, all the old pain and bitterness came back. He did not care to live, he told himself He was weary, tired, and utterly disheartened with everything. But by-and-bye he began to think of hie mother. The thick foggy weather was very trying to Mrs. Hayward, and she had suffered much during the last few days. The doctor had told Hayward that London BENEATH THE WAVE. 57 air was very bad for her at this season, and that she would breathe better in a clearer atmosphere. How often these things are said to the poor, and how often listened to with inward groans ! It was indeed all Hayward could do, with his scanty- salary, to provide her comforts and neces- saries where she was. So he could only watch her panting breath ; only wipe the dew from her pale brow as she used to sink back exhausted. He had no means to take her away from the penetrating mists, from the damp chill air that crept almost like a poison around her. One night she was very, very ill. It was the night of the day that Hayward had heard from the Rev. Matthew of Miss Trevor s approaching marriage. Hayward had re- turned to their lodgings, feeling wretchedly miserable and out of sorts. It was a wet, dismal evening when he went in. Mrs. Hayward saw at once that he was greatly upset, and though he tried to hide his feelings when he met his mother's anxious 58 BENEATH THE WAVE. • gaze, he was conscious that he could not entirely do so. During the night Mrs. Hayward became very ill. She could not breathe, and lay back in her chair struggling and panting. Hayward at once despatched a messenger for the doctor who usually attended her, and by and bye he was able temporarily to relieve her. " But she should not be in town at this season," he said. ** You should get her away, Mr. Hayward." " But how ? " thought Hayward, bitterly, as he sat and watched her after the doctor was gone. He could not leave his employ- ment. He could not afford the money that even the briefest change was sure to cost. The next few days were very miserable ones. The weather was dark and gloomy in the extreme, and it painfully affected Mrs. Hayward. So dreadful, indeed, did it become to Hayward to see her suffer that he almost made up his mind to borrow the money of his uncle, Mr. Moxam, to take her away. Yet how to approach the rude BENEATH THE WAVE. 59 old man on such an errand, how endure the vulgar insolence of the son ? All one day, as he sat m the ofl&ce, wading through the very prosy adventures of a heroine who seemed bent on making her own misery, he was thinking of the same thing. Then, just as it was getting dusk, and as the heroine was getting more and more self-sacrificing (though there was no reason for it), Mr. Newcome came into the room where Hayward was, and went straight up to his desk, holding a card in his hand. "That fool Thompson" (Thompson was the porter of the establishment), said Mr. Newcome, very grimly, " thought, I suppose, that anybody coming here in a carriage must be coming to see me, and therefore he brought me this card." And Mr. New- come threw the card as he spoke on the desk before Hayward. Hayward glanced at it, and his face suddenly flushed, and then grew pale. ''Humph!" said Mr. Newcome, noting 60 BENEATH THE WAVE. with his small shrewd brown eyes these signs of emotion. "So you know this Sir George Hamilton, do you ? Well, he's waiting outside in his carriage to see you. Of course when I got the card I went down quick enough, thinking some fool of a swell was wanting a pack of his precious nonsense printed, or something of that sort. But I soon found that that ass Thompson had made a fool of me. This Sir George Hamilton, in fact, let me know at once that he had come to see you, and wanted no one else in the establishment." *' I — knew him when I was in the North," faltered Hayward. " Well, he seems no end of a swell, anyhow," said Newcome. " But you had better go down to him. He's waiting in his carriage outside." Then Hayward rose, and slowly went down the dusty, narrow staircase which led to the street door of the ofl&ce. At the door a tall footman was standing, and drawn up near to it was a carriage. BENEATH THE WAVE. 61 leaning out of the window of which Hay- ward recognized the pale face of Sir George Hamilton. Hayward could not suppress his emotion as he did so. His feet faltered^ and his tongue refiised its office. But when Sir « Greorge saw him he at once got out of the carriage and came forward with outstretched hand. " Hayward ! " he said. But Hayward could frame no speech, no reply. " I wish particularly to see you," continued Sir George, speaking quickly, and also with emotion. " Will you come with me in the carriage ? I will drive you home." " I — I — cannot," hesitated Hayward. " I am engaged here." " But," said Sir George, with the care- lessness of a rich man, ^'cannot your work wait? or get someone else to take your place. There was a person spoke to me just now, wouldn't he ? " " I can ask Mr. Newcome," said Hayward, and then he went upstairs agjpdn and rapped 62 BENEATH THE WAVE. at the door of the small office where Mr. Newcome usually sat. "May I go with Sir Gleorge Hamilton for a short time?" said Hayward, after Mr. Newcome had called him to come in. "Oh, of course," sneered Mr. Newcome. "Don't let me interfere with your aristo-* cratic engagements." "It is no engagement. Sir George has something to say to me, that is all," answered Hayward. "Oh, you can go," said Newcome, still disagreeably. "Will you come back to- morrow ? " "Yes, I will come back to-morrow," replied Hayward, and with these words they parted ; Hayward returning at once to Sir George, who was waiting for him outside. " Will you get into the carriage ? " said Sir George, addressing him ; and when Hay- ward complied with this request, Sir George followed him, and after giving some direc- tions to the footman, seated himself by Hayward's side. BENEATH THE WAVE. 63 " Hayward," he said, as the carriage turned down the narrow street, laying his hand on Hayward's arm, "there are some things we need not discuss. I was deeply cut up when I returned and found you had left Massam during my absence. Hush, do not speak — I know or guess the cause why you did so — and I know also that you are not the person to blame. Hush, for one moment. We never need allude to that cause again, but I cannot, I will not, allow it to interfere with my friendship, my gratitude, to you." " You are very kind," said Hayward, with quivering lips. "There can be no question of kindness between us," said Sir George. " I owe you a debt I can never repay." Hayward was silent. His memory went back at that moment to the surging sea on the wild coast ; to the look of despair in Sir Greorge's eyes when he had first met them; and to Isabel Trevor, and the cruel shame and pain that through her had fallen on his life. " I tried to find your address," continued 64 BENEATH THE WAVE. Sir George, "and at last I did so. Mr. Irvine, the clergyman at Sanda, gave it to me ; and, Hayward, can you guess where I have been now ? " ^* No," said Hayward, briefly. Somehow he thought he would hear Isabel's name. " With your mother," said Sir George, I got your address in Chelsea from Mr. Irvine, and I came up to town on purpose to see you. My dear Hayward," he continued kindly, " let me ask you one thing, which is to forget any annoyance that happened to you at Massam ! I wish to forget it, and — I may as well mention her name — Miss Trevor wishes to forget it. Let us return to our old relationship — which is that I am indebted to you for my life." " That is nothing," said Hayward, huskily. " It is much to my mind," answered Sir George ; " so much that I feel uneasy to be under such a weight of obligation to. any one. But I was telling you that I have seen your mother. And — ^yes, I will tell you — I have also seen her doctor." BENEATH THE WAVE. 65 ^^ Why ? " asked Hayward sharply, almost sternly. "Because — do not be angry with me, Hayward — I, too, had a dear mother once." (And Sir George sighed deeply). " Because I thought, poor lady, that she looked very delicate — and " "They m me Ae i. dyix>g,» M Hay- ward, as Sir George paused ; and he put his hand over his face a^ he spoke. "At all events she is very ill," said Sir George, gently. " And, my dear Hayward, the doctor tells me, and my own sense tells me, that it is no climate for her to be in." " Yes, I know," said Hayward, abruptly. "And, therefore, before anythmg else, before we discuss your future profession, let me entreat you at once to accept from me the means to take her away. Do not refuse this, Hayward. For your mother* sake I am sure you will not." Hayward bit his lips and leant back in the carriage as Sir George said this. " For his mother s sake ! " And yet to accept money VOL. II. F 66 BENEATH THE WAVE. firom Sir Greorge, from the man about to many the woman he had so madly loved. It wa8 a cruel altematiye. On the one hand his mother, on the other his jealous passionate heart. " I do not know what to say, Sir George/ at last he faltered. "Say nothing/' said Sir George, "but take this cheque. Nay," as Hayward pushed the slip of paper back, " I will take no refiisal. I asked the doctor which would be the best place for Mrs. Hayward to go, and he proposed Torquay, or some other mild spot on the Devonshire coast. At aU events, he said, she ought to go at once. Who are these people you are with ? " continued Sir George. "Your mother said it was a printing establishment that you are in. We had better see the people at once, and arrange about your leaving." Sir George asked aU these questions, and made all these propositions in a quick tone and manner, somewhat dLflferent to his usual stately way. He, in fact, was anxious not BENEATH THE WAVE. 67 to allow Hayward time for mucli thought. He wished to arrange it all at once. He had talked himself into the belief, and Isabel Trevor had talked him into the beUef, that Hayward's love for her had only been a young man s passing fancy, and he now (as he had told Hayward) wished to forget all about it. He did not, however, wish to forget the debt he owed to the man who had saved his life. This he considered binding and sacred, and Isabel Trevor also had not been unwilling that Sir George should once more seek out Philip Hayward. '^ Suppose I go back and see this person, this printer, now ? " w^nt on Sir George. *'In that case you could take Mrs. Hay- ward out of town to-morrow ? " " No, no ! " cried Hayward quickly, almost passionately, "you must let me think. I cannot decide to-day — ^to-morrow, if you will " *^ To-morrow, then," said Sir George, ^'I wm go with you, and arrange with this 68 BENEATH THE WATE. person. If he desires any compensation for the loss of your services, I shall be most happy to advance it." Hayward murmured a word of thanks, and then Sir George quietly changed the conversation, talking to Hayward upon the passing topics of the day until the carriage stopped before the house at Chelsea where the Haywards lodged. " I will not go in to-night," said Sir George, "for Mrs. Hayward will be tired, but I will call to-morrow. And now, good- bye, Hayward ! I am glad indeed to have found you, and remember, for your m6ther's sake, I expect you will not refiise my request." And then Sir George took Hayward's hand, and in a few moments the carriage was gone, and almost like a man in a dream Hayward entered the house. He found his mother flushed and ex- cited. "Who do you think has been here to-day, my dear ?" she said the moment he entered the room. BENEATH THE WATB. 69 " I know, mother," said Hayward, trying for her sake to snule. " Sir George Hamilton," continued Mrs. Hayward, with evident pleasure and pride. •' Oh, my dear, come beside me, and let me tell you all he said. He made me indeed proud of my boy, my darling." And Mrs. Hayward's eyes filled with tears. "Hush, mother! never mind," said Haywar4. "You will be ill if you excite yourself in this way." "You never told me half," said Mrs. Hayward, with fond maternal pride. "Oh, my dear, my dear," and the mother leaned her head upon her son's shoulder. " I am ready to die now, when I know I leave you with a friend Uke this." And what could Hayward say? Mrs. Hayward seemed so full of joy and pride it seemed impossible to her son to damp her pleasure. Sir George had said this of him, and Sir George had said that ; so the fond mother prattled on. Then Hayward told her of Sir George's proposal that she 70 BENEATH THE WAVE. should leave town; and the poor mvalid's eyes sparkled at the idea. " I longed to see the sea once more/' she said ; ^^ I will die more easily, my dear^ out of this smoky town." These words settled it. " For her sake I will do this, as I have done the rest," Hayward determined, and so he laid self aside. He kissed his mother when he went away the next morning with even more tenderness than usual. " You, too, are looking pale, my Philip," she said, as he did this. " The change will do you good as well. I do not know how I shall find words to thank your generous friend." Then Philip went to his work, and sat down as usual, with his proofs lying before him. But the self-sacrificing heroine that he had been busy with the day before grew a very hazy personage to his mind as he went on. He saw two other faces ever before him — Sir George Hamilton's and BENEATH THE WAVE. 71 Isabel Trevor's. Then by-and-bye he heard a carriage stop before the street door, and curiosity prompted him to look out. He knew at once to whom the plain dark carriage and the two valuable bay horses that he saw standing belonged. Sir George Hannlton had arrived. But at lea^t a quarter of an hour elapsed before he received any announcement of the fact. Then one of the printers came and told him that Mr. Newcome wanted him in his private room. Hayward accordingly proceeded there, and foimd Sir George Hamilton closeted with his employer. " This gentleman — Sir George Hamilton," said Newcome in an obsequious tone, for his philosophy was not proof against Sir George's wealth and rank, "has just been telling me, Hayward, that he considers himself under a great obligation to you. As you are a connection of mine, I feel gratified that your conduct has deserved such favourable notice." And the printer bowed to the baronet. 72 BENEATH THE WAVE. "Sir George is good enough to say so," answered Hayward, embarrassed. " I took you into this establishment with- out knowing much of you/' continued Mr. Newcome, secretly anxious to impress Sir George with his superiority, " but I must say you have given me every satisfaction. I imderstand your mother is ill, and that you wish for the present to leave? This will be a serious inconvenience at this time, when we have a great press of business on hand ; but of course at Sir George's request " And again Mr. Newcome bowed to Sir George. *^ I have arranged everything with Mr. Newcome," said Sir George, who was becoming a little weary of the printer's speeches. "You will leave your employ- ment here to-day, and I sincerely hope, my dear fellow, that the change of air will do your mother good." " I thank you,'* said Hayward, with quivering Ups. "And now I will say good-bye," went BENEATH THE WAVE. 73 on Sir Greorge. " Good morning, Mr. New- come," and he bowed to the printer, who, however, followed the baronet downstairs. "I have seen your mother," added Sir G-eorge, after he had taken his seat in the carriage waiting outside, and addressing Hayward, " and we have settled it all. You must write to me. You know the address ? Grood-bye, Hayward." And Sir George shook Hayward's hand warmly, and then the carriage door was shut, and Sir George was driven away ; Mr. Newcome and Hayward being left standing together on the flags outside the office. " I say, young gentleman," said New- come, relapsing into his usual sneers as the carriage disappeared, for he was disappointed in Sir George's manner to himself, " so you kept all this grand connection of yours a secret from the Moxams, eh? If you had such a rich friend ready to do so much for you, why did you go to Moxam to seek for employment ? " " I did not care to ask Sir George for 74 BENEATH THE WAVE. anything," answered Hay ward, naturally resenting these questions. " Humph ! WeU, I'm glad to find a little modesty at last among my kind," said Newcome, still curling his thin, upper lip. "Well, I hope you'll have a pleasant trip to the sea. Try to finish that confounded book before you go." And then Mr. New- come retired again to his private room, and when he got there drew out of his pocket a cheque bearing Sir George Hamilton's name ; the amount of which, if Hayward could have seen the price Mr. Newcome had put upon his services, would have filled his heart with shame. But as he did not see it, he returned thoughtfully to his work, and endeavoured to do the best he could for his unsatis- factory heroine upstairs. Sir George, too, looked more than ordinarily thoughtful as he was being driven down the narrow thoroughfare where the establishment of Messrs. Salkeld and Newcome stood. He had asked Hayward to write to him. BENEATH THE WAVE. 75 He had told him that the usual address would find him. But he had not told Hayward that to-morrow was his wedding day. i ill N ^ « #1 i CHAPTER V. WEDDING GUESTS. Sir George Hamilton had more than or reason for not telling Hayward that he vn to be married to Isabel Trevor on tit following day. These are easy to iinde stand. He feared to annoy Hayward I alluding to what at best must be a vexatioi subject to him; and he also generous] thought that perhaps the knowledge of h near marriage might make it more painf to Hayward to accept an obligation froi him. StUl, he did not lay much stress c the idea of the young man's love for h future wife. He only believed that Ha; ward had been led away by her grei beauty, and he was quite ready (as we ha^ BENBATH THE WAVE. 77 seen) to forgive this, and truly glad to be able to be of some service to the man to whom he owed his life. He drove straight from the printing establishment of Messrs. Salkeld and New- come to King's Cross Station. He, indeed, had barely time to catch the midday train north, and he had promised to arrive at Sanda HaU before nightfall. He smiled to himself somewhat grimly when he remembered his little private trans- action with Mr. Newcome. That astute gentleman thought he had thrown dust in the eyes of the wealthy Sir George, but he had not. Sir George knew about as well as Mr. Newcome did, that Hayward's place could easily be supplied ; and he knew that the printer had cheated him, as in fact we aU generally know when we are cheated. There's a wonderful ring about the true metal that the false can never borrow. But Sir George had taken a strange fancy to Hiayward, and was ready to do a great deal to save him from annoyance of any kind. 78 BENEATH THE WAVE. Thus he had made no objection to Mr. New- come's modest compensation requirements for the loss of Hayward's services, but at the same time he quite understood Mr. Newcome. But we may be sure that the very memory of the sharp printer had passed away from Sir George's mind long before he reached Sanda Hall. He was going to be married to-morrow to Isabel Trevor — ^to a woman who had fascinated him against his will, and whom he even now regarded with strangely mingled feelings. He did not trust her. The subtle glamour of her beauty over- powered his reason, but his reason was still there. Now his love was the strongest, but the day might come when his reason would assert itself, and when the subtle glamour of her beauty might pass away. All the windows of the whole hall at Sanda were lighted from within, when, in the dark November evening, he approached ifc. At his earnest request the marriage was to be a very quiet one; but Isabel had BENEATH THE WAVE. 79 invited her school firiends, Patty and Lu Featherstone, to be her bridesmaids, when she had first announced her engagement to Sir George; and she insisted therefore that they should be present at the cere- mony. Sir George yielded to her wishes about the Featherstones, but he had most earnestly requested that there should be no wedding festivities. Both Isabel and Mr. Trevor were very much disappointed at this, but Isabel did not yet dare openly to disregard her future husband's requests. So in the warm and weU-lit drawing-room at Sanda, when Sir George arrived, there was only a very small party assembled. It consisted of Patty and Lu Featherstone, Hilda Marston, and a Mr. Graham, who was an immarried man, and a coimtry neighbour of the Trevors, and of course Isabel and her father. They all looked very well pleased with themselves and each other, except Hilda Marston. This poor girl was sitting apart 80 BENEATH THE WAVE. from the rest, looking pale and anxious. And she had some cause to do so. *'As I am going to be married. Miss Marston," Isabel Trevor had said to her, shortly after their return to Sanda from Massam, **you ought to be looking out for another situation, ought you not T "Yes," Hilda had answered, turning rather pale. "When do you wish me to go?" " You can stay until after the wedding," replied Miss Trevor, " as there will be so many things to do." And thus Hilda Marston's days at Sanda were about num- bered. But it was not about herself chiefly that caused her to look so pale and sad, Mr. Trevor had resented to the full extent of his narrow feelings Hilda's rejection of his proposal. It was monstrous 1 the Squire of Sanda told himself. A penniless girl without any particular beauty, rushing up to him as she had done on that Sunday at Massam, and telling him she could not BENEATH THE WAVE. 81 many him! Not marry him, indeed! Then he would tell her, and meant to tell her, that he would do nothing more, either for herself or her family. And he had actually done this. He was not in bad spirits, however, about it. Patty and Lu Featherstone had arrived at the Hall, and Patty and Lu ha 1 ex- changed a sisterly confidence on the night of their arrival there. " This is a dear old place, isn't it, Lu ?" Patty had said, as she unfastened her abun- dant reddish-brown hair. " Awfully jolly," answered Lu. ** Sup- pose, Patty, as you are the eldest, you make love to the old gentleman?" Patty made a wry face. *' Suppose you do yourself, my dear ?" she said. "Well," answered Lu, deliberately, "it is all very fine, you know, amusing oneself and that kind of thing, but really — I dare- say you won't believe it — but really if Mr. Trevor were to ask me to be mistress of VOL. II. o 82 BENEATH THE WAVE. Sanda Hall, I wouldn't, under the circum- stances, say no." Both sisters understood the " circumstan- ces." The graceless Antony Featherstone, their father, had been in a little more trouble even than usual when they had left home. The girls were fond of their father, and always ready to forgive him aU his short- comings, but they did not like it. So Lu Featherstone made herself very agreeable to Mr. Trevor during the few days that the sisters were at Sanda Hall, before the day fixed for Isabel's wedding. Lu was a good-looking, high-spirited, and amusing girl, and Mr. Trevor felt that he enjoyed her agreeable society very much. He walked and rode with the girls as if he were a young man. This very day (on the evening of which we find them all assembled in the drawing-room of Sanda Hall expecting Sir George's arrival) Mr. Trevor had had a long walk on the sands alone with Lu Featherstone ; climbing over the rocks after the energetic girl, with the agility (he imagined) of a squirrel. BENEATH THE WAVE. 83 He felt himself so invigorated by the sea air, Lus laughter, and the pleasant belief that she contrived very cleverly to instil in his mind that he was still young enough to be charming, that he determined on his return to the Hall to let Hilda Marston see that he was not pining after her. She might have the bad taste not to admire Reginald Trevor, Esq., but all young ladies were efvidently not of the same opinion, thought the Squire of Sanda, straightening his necktie (which had got a little awry with his unusual exertions during the morning) before the dining-room mirror. So he rung the bell, and ordered the butler to summons Miss Marston to his presence. He seated himself in an easy chair, and took up the Times in preparation for the coming interview. She should see he was not at all nervous about it, he told himself, looking attentively at the columns of the paper, which, however, he was holding with the print reversed. He was nervous, in truth, but Hilda had wounded his vanity ; he therefore felt very bitter towards Hilda. 84 BENEATH THE WAVE. Enter Holda^ somewhat tiinidlj. Was he going to ask her again ? the poor girl thought for a moment when she received the squire's summons. And what must she answer? she had thought also with quick- ened breath. What must she say? She had received one or two very angry and disappointed letters from her eldest sister Marian on the subject of the squire's offer of m^xrUg.. Mks ilarston ij told Hilda that she thought she (Hilda) had acted ungratefully to Mr, Trevor. She had pointed out where they would have been but for Mr. Trevor, and she had more than hinted how different their position would have been now if HUda had not been selfish enough only to think of self, when she refused a man who had done, and would probably have done, so much for them all. You see this was not unnatural. Marian Marston was a governess in a clergyman's family where she had visited on equal terms during her father's lifetime, and she was BENEATH THE WAVE. 85 very uncomfortable. She could not help thinking if her sister had been Mrs. Trevor, of Sanda Hall, how different she herself would have been ! She might have lived with Hilda, and also married in good time. And then there was little Ned. He was totally unprovided for, and, unlike the rest of the family, not of an age to provide for himself. What would become of him. Miss Marston thought, if Mr. Trevor was so angry with Hilda as to entirely withdraw his patronage from them? Miss Marston had pointed out this last fact to Hilda very forcibly. ** Think of poor little Ned," she had written to her sister, " the young brother we both promised dear papa on his death-bed to do our best for." Hilda had cried very bitterly over this letter, and had begun to think she was selfish. She was too proud a girl to make any advances to Mr. Trevor, but she had thought once or twice that perhaps she had acted imwisely. Then the "Feather- stone girls " came to Sanda, and after this 86 BENEATH THE WAVE. Hilda had very little chance of seeing Mr. Trevor. She felt nervous, therefore, when she entered his presence on being summoned there by his butler. There he sat ; his narrow forehead and well-arranged white hair just visible above the newspaper he held in his hand. He did not rise as Hilda entered. He pretended for a moment not to see her; and then, when the poor girl said tremblingly — " I — I — ^think you sent for me, Mr. Trevor ? " He lowered his newspaper. '' Ah, Miss Marston ! Ah, to be sure," said the squire, in his grandest tones. "Yes, yes, I wish to say a few words to you — ^pray be seated." Hilda meekly took a seat at his com- mand. " I wish to say. Miss Marston," then continued the squire, rustling his paper, "that as my daughter is (as you know) about to be married, I shall not require your further services here." BENEATH THE WAVE. 87 " Very well," said Hilda, turning scarlet. ** And about your young brother, Ed- ward," went on Mr. Trevor, with another wave of his newspaper, " I have considered this question; and I have come to the conclusion that under the circumstances it will be inexpedient for me to charge myself further with the expenses of his education. I mean, therefore, to give Mr. Irvine notice to that effect." If Hilda were red before, she turned very pale as JVEr. Trevor ended his speech. Then she rose from her seat with a sort of exclamation, and stood before him. "Oh! Mr. Trevor," she said, "if if I have offended you " " I am not in the least offended," answered Mr. Trevor. " You could not offend me." " I mean," faltered Hilda, " don't please allow anything that I have done to prejudice you against poor little Ned." " I am never prejudiced," said Mr. Trevor. " But, pray, may I ask, what claim do you consider your brother has on me ? " 88 BENEATH THE WAVE. Alas, Hilda knew too well he had none. Tears rose in her eyes as Mr. Trevor asked the question, but with a great eflTort she forced them back. *' I know he has no claim, sir — except on your generosity," she said. " But, of course, if you have decided " " I have decided," said Mr. Trevor, rising also, " and I am not a man hastily to change my decisions. I recognize no claim what- ever that he has, either on my generosity or otherwise. In different circumstances, of course I should have acted differently. As it is, I trust that you now perfectly understand my intentions." " Yes, perfectly," said Hilda, and her face flushed again. Yes, she understood his intentions, and understood also his meanness and cruelty. She was glad at that moment that she had said no to this man. What I he could revenge himself on poor little Ned she was thinking as she turned away and left the squire's presence. "It was very, very small," she thought with curling lip. BENEATH THE WAVE. 89 But his decision left the poor girl in a most trying position. She could not forsake her little brother, and she could not take him with her if she obtained any situation as a governess or a companion. "What am I to do ? " thought Hilda again and again during the afternoon, again and again as she sat pale and silent in the drawing- room after dinner, when all the rest were looking so well satisfied and pleased. Mr. Trevor was sitting close to Lu Featherstone, showing her some photo- graphs of Italy which he had brought from that country some years ago; Patty Featherstone was sitting at the piano, chattering and laughing to Mr. Graham, and Isabel Trevor was moving rather restlessly about. Then came the sound of carriage wheels on the drive outside the house, and Mr. Trevor took out his watch when he heard it. "That is Hamilton," he said, and with a little laugh Isabel left the room. She met her lover on the staircase. 90 BENEATH THE WAVE. "Are you very tired?" she said. But Sir George made no answer. He stood for a moment looking at her, and then took her in his arms. " You are rather late," said Isabel, feeling as if she knew not what to say. *^ The train got in late," answered Sir Greorge. "And you — my Isabel — '^ Yes, he loved her. Chill doubts rose up sometimes in his heart, and distrust ; but he never felt as if he knew not what to say to her. She did not weary him as he wearied her. Isabel had tried hard to win him, but she soon tired of her conquest. If a man loved her she was sure to tire of him. The coldest heart could have kept her longest. Sir George had been devoted to her since their engagement, devoted and exacting, and already Isabel was weary. "Where are the rest?" he asked, presently. " Papa is making desperate love to Lu Featherstone," answered Isabel, lightly, " and Patty desperate love to Mr. Graham. BENEATH THE WAVE. 91 They are in the drawing-room. Come, let us join them/* '' Why ? " said Sir George. " Let us go into the library. We want no one else, do we, Isabel ? " Isabel gave a little airy shrug of her shoulders. "I am too old for such frivolity," she said. "No, decidedly let us go into the drawing-room and behave ourselves like reasonable creatures." "Very well," said Sir George, almost coldly. He was sensitive and proud, and he would not have condescended to ask her again. So he followed her into the lighted drawing-room. "My dear Hamilton," said Mr. Trevor, rising and shaJdng his future son-in-law's hand with great cordiaUty. Then Sir George spoke to the two Featherstones, and Isabel rang for tea. Sir George had dined on his journey, and though »ppi ™ laid for hi J dow^tairB he 1 dined to partake of it. He stood talking 92 BENEATH THE WAVE. to Isabel, who looked wonderfully beautiful. By-and-bye his eyes fell on Hilda Marston, who wa^ sitting aknost behind one of the window curtains, and quite apart from the rest. Sir George at once crossed the room and spoke to her. " I saw young Hayward in town to-day, Miss Marston," he said, after he had shaken hands with her. " Indeed I " said Hilda, quickly, and she was conscious that she blushed. " What ! has our hero cast up again ? " exclaimed Isabel, and she looked coquet- tishly and smilingly at Sir George. " Hayward ? " said the squire. " Ah, yes, yes, to be sure. The young man who assisted in rescuing you. Sir George ? He left Massam suddenly — ^yes, I remember — he was called away." " And where did you find him ? " asked Isabel of Sir George. " Toiling in a garret, after the manner of heroes ? " "I found him very worthily employed," answered Sir George, gravely. " I also BENEATH THE WAVE. 93 called upon his mother, who is very ill. She seems a very superior woman, and Hayward, by her account, at least, is a devoted son." "Well, we all owe him a certain debt," said Isabel, again smiling coquettishly at Sir George, which smile for a moment he returned. Then his expression suddenly changed. His brow contracted, and a look of pain passed over his face. But it was only for a brief interval. With an effort he threw off the dark memory that shadow-like had crossed his mind ; with an effort he turned to smile once more on Isabel. He would forget the past, he told himself; the paBt, which, grim and weird-Uke, would rise sometimes unbidden to his heart. CHAPTER VI. A GOOD MABRIAGE. The next morning, at half-past ten o'clock, Isabel Trevor was married in the little parish church of Sanda-by-the-Sea. It was a very quiet ceremony as regards the com- pany present. No one had been told in the village when it was to take place; no one at least but the parson and the clerk, and one honourable exception. This was Mrs. Irvine. When, in fact, the Rev. Matthew was sent for to the Hall by Mr. Trevor, and informed of the day and hour that they had fixed on for the approaching marriage, Isabel, who was present, had said playfully (as was her wont to men), " And, remember, you are to tell no one, Mr. Irvine. BENEATH THE WAVE. 95 ^' Of course not," answered the Rev. Matthew, "if you wish it." "With, of course, the exception of Mrs. Irvine," continued Isabel, smilingly, "as I know you could keep no secret from her." " Nay, my dear lady, I will do so if you command me," replied the Rev. Matthew. " I don't expect too much from frail human nature, Mr. Irvine," said Isabel, laughing; "and I know that you neither could nor would keep a secret from Mrs. Irvine. Come now, confess. Did you ever ? " " I am no advocate of confession. Miss Trevor," answered the parson, shaking his head, and looking at Isabel with his half- comic, half pathetic smile. " But if I may ask a favour — knowing, as I do, that nothing gives ladies so much pleasure as to see gay attire, except possessing it themselves — I would ask permission to be allowed to whisper in my wife's ear the hour of the approaxjhing ceremony." " Very well," said Isabel, " but remember 96 BENEATH THE WAVE. its a bargain. Mrs. Irvine, and no one else." Thus Mrs. Irvine (who took her seat solemnly in a commanding situation in the church precisely at ten o'clock) was the only spectator awaiting the bridal party when it arrived there. True, at the sight of the two carriages from the Hall standing at the church door, a small crowd of villagers (chiefly children) collected outside. But they were not permitted to enter the church. Mrs. Irvine, and Mrs. Irvine alone, saw the splendour of the bride's dress. This was precisely the same as if Isabel had expected to be admired by a crowd of Mends. The lace on her dress alone cost a Uttle fortune, and she wore all the magnificent Hamilton family diamonds, which Sir George had caused to be re-set for her. Sir George was surprised, and even annoyed when she appeared in them. "My dear Isabel," he said, touching the gUttering necklet clasped round her white throat, "you surely do not mean to wear BBNEATH THE WAVE. 97 all these things when no one is to be present ? " '' I wear them for my own gratification, sir, and I might perhaps add for yours," answered Isabel in her bright, bold way; her eyes fixed the while on the reflected image of herself in a mirror hanging opposite to her. **But it seems so incongruous," said Sir George. "How do I look?" asked Isabel. And to this question there could be only one reply. Then, before Sir George could make any further objections to the unnecessary splen- dour of her dress, the carriages came round ; and Mr. Trevor, with no small pride, led his daughter downstairs, and presently they were all driven to the church ; Mr. Graham (the country neighbour who had dined at the HaJl the night before) a<;ting aa Sir Gteorge's best man, and Patty and Lu as Isabel's bridesmaids. Hilda Marston was not aaked to be present at the ceremony, VOL. II. H 98 BENEATH THE WAVE. and she did not go to the church. She was, as we have seen, very unhappy. She had very little, almost no money — only a few pounds-and what would this do to begin the world with? After the marriage was over she had made up her mind to ask Mr. Trevor when poor httle Ned was to be removed from Mr. Irvine's. When she knew this, she determined to take her little brother with her to London and try to educate him herself, and at the same time endeavour to teach music. She knew that this would be very difficult to accomplish, but she was a brave good girl, and she meant to try. She had been educated in a school near London, and she thought that perhaps her old governess, the mistress of this establishment, would endeavour to help her. She was thinking of the future when she heard the carriages containing the bridal party return. Yes, Isabel Trevor had gained her object. She was Lady Hamilton now, and she thought of this with satisfac- BENEATH THE WAVE. 99 tion and pride as she once more approached her old home after the ceremony was over. Sir George, on the contrary, who of course was sitting in the carriage by her side, looked pale and agitated. "Thank God it is over," he said, and Isabel answered by a little laugh. "Well, it did not take very long," she said. " I am only sorry " And then she checked herself. " For what, Isabel ?" asked Sir George, looking into her beautiful face. She was thinking "that there were sq few people there to see me married." She had not once thought of the solemn words that she had just uttered. She had plighted her troth, but the holy significance of that promise was totally lost to her. She had married for the world's sake, therefore she would have been well pleased if a crowd had witnessed the ceremony. But she did not tell this to Sir George. The innate coquetry of her nature made her check the wish that rose on her Ups. 100 BENEATH THE WAVE. "What do you regret, Isabel?" asked her bridegroom. " It is a secret," she answered, smilingly. " Some day, perhaps, I shall whisper it in your ear." And Sir George clasped her small hand in his tightly as she spoke. "Isabel," he said, "you love me, don't you ? You really love me ?" "Have I not just promised to do so?" answered Isabel, smiling again; and Sir George tried to content himself with the sugared words. During the very sumptuous breakfast which followed, the cloud, however, cleared away from his brow. He drank freely of the rare wines which Mr. Trevor had produced from his well-stocked cellar for the occasion, and he spoke and laughed with much less restraint than was his wont. He had, after the customary manner of bridegrooms, brought down lockets for the bridesmaids, which he had placed for presen- tation in Isabel's hands on the previous BENEATH THE WAVE. 101 evening. He had brought three, meaning them for the two Featherstones and Hilda Marston. Isabel had not told him that she did not mean Hilda to be one of her brides- maids, and he naturally concluded that she would be so. Each of the lockets was in a separate case and package, and addressed to L you.g lady it wi intended for. Isabel, before they retired for the night, had duly presented Patty and Lu Feather- stone with theirs, and both the girls and herself went into raptures over their beauty. Sir George was a very rich man, and had a sort of gorgeous magnificence of taste, which had shown itself even in the choice of his wife. He had therefore ordered the bridesmaids' lockets without in the least considering the expense. The monograms on each were of costly diamonds and emer- alds, and after Isabel had seen the Feather- stones', she felt annoyed that anything so beautiful and expensive should be given to Hilda Marston. She was, as she had said herself, strangely 102 BENEATH THE WAVE. covetous of jewels. She therefore opened Hilda's packet before she went to bed, and examined and re-examined the shining stones. She might have had the same for the asking. In her jewel-box were lying ghttering gems of double and treble the value ; but it was such a pretty locket, she thought, turning Hilda's over and over in her white hands. ^t all events she had not given it to Hilda before the wedding breakfast. The Featherstones, of course, wore theirs, and were profuse in their admiration and thanks for them to the donor. This had taken place before the marriage, but by chance during the breakfast that followed it Sir George's eyes fell on Hilda's white dress, and missed the glittering ornament that he naturally expected to see her wear. *'How is it. Miss Marston," he asked, with a freedom unusual to him, "that you do not honour my poor present like the other young ladies ? " At this question Hilda looked up BENEATH THE WAVE. 103 surprised, and a sudden blush passed over Isabel's face. " I — I — ^have forgotten to give Miss Marston her locket/' she said, after a moment's .hesitation. " How stupid of me ! " " It was very good of you to think of me," said Hilda, addressing Sir George. "After breakfast is over I will give it to you," abided the new Lady Hamilton. "Pray remind me to do so." But she did not need to be reminded. As soon as the breakfast was over she sent her maid for Hilda, and when Hilda went to her at her bidding she told Hilda to shut the room door. When they were alone, she said, " About this locket. Miss Marston. Sir George bought it for you in mistake. He thought you were to be one of the bridesmaids." " Yes," replied Hilda, and her face flushed. " But as he did buy it for you, of course it ought to be yours," continued Isabel; "and I intended to give it to you. But I've been thinking — ^it won't be much use 104 BENEATH THE WATB. to you, will it ? And I like it very much, and I am willing to buy it of you." Hilda was silent. She really did not know what to say. " I will give you twenty pounds for it," went on Isabel. "That will be of more use to you, I think, than a locket." She knew she was ofltering Hilda not a third of the real value of t^p ornament; she knew also that Hilda would probably not know this, and she was never lavish in her deaUngs with others. " I — I thank you," said Hilda ; and the flush on her face considerably deepened, for she was thinking of her necessities. **Yes, that will be of more use to me than the locket — ^if you think Sir George will not be offended." " He need never know anything about it," rephed Isabel, carelessly. " There is the money for you." And she placed four notes in Hilda's hand, and with a feeling of reUef and gratitude in her heart, Hilda put up her face to kiss the bride. BBNEATH THE WAVE. 105 *' I have never congratulated you," she aaid ; and her grey eyes grew moist as she spoke, for she was very tender-hearted. " I — I hope you will be very happy, Lady Hamilton." "Thank you," said Isabel, as she in- differently, but not unkindly returned the kiss. All women were in fact indifferent to her except when she was competing with them for admiration of any sort. Then she had some interest in their proceedings and appearance ; but when it was otherwise, she cared very httle or nothing about them. She therefore kissed Hilda Marston coldly, but not unkindly. ''I shall be glad to hear from you," she said. " Write and tell me how you get on — and perhaps by-and-bye you may oome to see me at Massam." "Thank you — ^you are very kind," an- swered Hilda, as, without another thought of her companion's future, the beautiful bride turned away. After this came the bustle of departure, 106 BENEATH THE WAVE. the satin slippers and the rice flung after the newly wedded pair, and then the somewhat oppressive feeling that the ex- citement was over, and that it was rather diflScult all at once to settle down again into ordinary every-day life. The Featherstones felt that they could not. They were high-spirited, Uvely girk, and were not inclined to be . dull if they could help it. " Suppose we go for a drive ? " said Lu, rather coquettishly to Mr. Trevor, who was in a state of flutter highly unbecoming to his years. Lu, indeed, had so effectually flattered his self-love, that he imagined he had fallen in love with her ! He forgot, poor man, his white hairs, his sixty years. He was delighted to have married his daughter so well, and felt that now he was without incumbrances in the world. He eyed him- self complacently both in his mental and bed-room looking glass. " Yes," he thought, glancing at the bedroom one, " I am a fine BENEATH THE WAVE. 107 looking man. Not a boy, certainly; but sensible girls prefer men-fine-looking men — ^to boys." And then he thought of his character. He had contemplated and sur- veyed this with satisfaction nearly all the years of his Ufe ! He was an upright, firm, and thoroughly conscientious, conservative gentleman, he thought. He had never swerved from the right path, and had gone straight as a ramrod all his days. He had no pity for poverty, sin, or shame. He was not a sinner, and sinners (poor sinners in particular) were odious to his sight. And all his ideas, personal or ptherwise, Lu had cleverly allowed him to perceive were also hers. " The dear girl likes me," he thought, again glancing at his bedroom looking-glass, and arranging his grey whiskers to his satisfaction, in preparation for going out for the drive Lu had proposed. " There are drawbacks, certainly," continued his mental reflections, and visions of reckless Antony Fea^herstone rose rather grimly before him. "Btit she is a fine girl — a fine, handsome, 108 BENEATH THE WAVE. high-spirited giri— and besides I have paid her too much attention now honourably to draw back." So when Reginald Trevor, Esq., seated himself in the pony cart, which Lu had preferred to drive- in to the other more pretentious carriages belonging to the place, firstly, because she wished to drive, secondly, because she wished to be alone with Mr. Trevor, Mr. Trevor had made up his mind to ask her to be his wife. The pony usually driven in the cart was named "Nick." "Nick" was a handsome pony, but of wicked tendencies ; so wicked that in the stables the adjective "old*' was frequently added to his name. But " Nick** never dared to play any of his little tricks when driven by Isabel. He knew the firm, strong, white hand of his mistress too well to do so. When he first came to the Hall stables she had taught him a lesson or two, and " Nick " had never forgotten them. Thus his real character was not exactly known to Lu Featherstone. She had often BENEATH THE WATE. 109 wished to drive him. He was so handsome and clever^ that she longed to hold the reins in her hands. And now she had got her wish. Away went " Nick " in his brisk quick trot, along the not over good roads round Sanda, drag- ging the Ught cart with the greatest ease, in which Lu and Mr. Trevor were seated. All went weU at first. Lu was a good whip, and liked to have the opportunity of showing it, and she was pleased also to look to advantage before Mr. Trevor. Suddenly, however, the cart gave rather an awkward jerk in passing over a stone on the road. ''My dear girl," exclaimed Mr. Trevor, piotectingly laying his hand on Lu's arm, who became flurried and nervous at the old man's touch. " If we could be always driving together ?" suggested Mr. Trevor, still retaining his grasp on Lu's arm, and Lu laughed imeasily in reply. " Would you like it ? " continued Mr. Trevor, with a weU-satisfied sunper. 110 BENEATH THE WAVE. Lu's hands trembled, and her hold on the rems grew less firm. You see it is one thing for a girl to make up her mind to accept a man she does not particularly care for, and another thing to do it. Lu Featherstone meant to marry Mr. Trevor, but she felt very uncomfortable when he first began to make love to her. " Would you ? " again asked Mr. Trevor, in what he supposed to be an arch and engaging whisper. " I I think so," answered Lu, blushing and hanging her head, and with the reins held very loosely in her shaking hands* But the next moment she gave a cry, and looked up. " Nick " had taken advantage of the love-making going on behind him. He in fact had taken the bit between his strong teeth, and had begun galloping in a reckless manner along the rough road. In vain Lu tried to check him. On he galloped ; on along the road, and then to the terror of both herself and Mr. Trevor he took a sharp turn, and the next minute BENEATH THE WAVE. Ill was dashing at full speed down a narrow pathway which led to the sands, and which was only occasionally used by workmen's carts, for the purpose of conveying sand firom the shore. Lu turned pale, and Mr. Trevor almost blue. " Stop him ! stop him !" cried Mr. Trevor, "or for a certainty we shall be thrown I" " I can't !" answered Lu, pulling desper- ately at the reins. The road was rough and really dangerous. On one side of it was a sort of bank formed in making it, which sloped steeply down to the sands below, on the other the coarse herbage which grew on the uneven hillocks, through which the path was cut. It grew steeper also as it neared the sands. Jolt, jolt, went the cart, dashing from side to side of the narrow roadway; while Mr. Trevor, pale and trenibling, rose from the seat, and endeavoured to get over the side of the vehicle. 112 BENEATH THE WAVE. " If you do you will be killed," said Lu, glandng round. " Don't for heaven's sake try to do that I" " We must, we must get out !" cried Mr. Trevor; and the next "moment he was over the side of the cart, the impetus of the speed at which it was going flinging him round first, and then sending him roUing over the edge of the road, and then finally down the steep bank upon the sands. Lu Featherstone gave a cry, but kept her seat, and "Nick" galloped on to the foot of the road, and having arrived on the sands, seemed satisfied, or perhaps frightened at the mischief he had done, for he allowed Lu to pull him up, and remained quiet while she sprang from the cart, and ran to the assistance of Mr. Trevor. He was lying rolled up where he had fallen, and at first Lu felt afraid that some- thing serious had happened to him. But when she lifted him up she perceived, at all events, that he was alive. Yet, at the sight of the girl's anxious face bending over BENEATH THE WAVE. 113 him, Mr. Trevor blushed. He had indeed feUen in two senses. The dignified. Mr. Trevor to be in such a fright about his life that he had scrambled out of the cart, and left a woman to her fate ! This dimly occurred to him at the moment Lu lifted him up. The next, self-love, so powerful in his heart, asserted itself. " I endeavoured to get out to try and stop the pony. Miss Featherston3," he Mtered, " but my foot slipped. " " Yes, of course," said Lu, good-naturedly. She knew instinctively what was passing in the old man's mind, and she was ready to soothe his vanity at once. *^ It was very brave of you," she said, and Mr. Trevor smiled faintly. "It was a risk," he answered, "but I was ready to run the risk — for you." " Thank you," said Lu, still helping Mr. Trevor to rise. But the next instant he gave a sharp cry of pain. " Oh ! my foot !" he said, leaning heavily on Lu's strong arm. VOL. II. I 114 BENEATH THE WAVE. He had in fact severely sprained his ankle, and was in no mood to make any polite or tender speeches. As Lu could not induce him again to enter the pony cart (indeed he was quite unable to do so), she, after a feeble objection on Mr. Trevor's part, once more got into it, and drove straight to Sanda Hall for assistance for Mr. Trevor, whom she was compelled to leave sitting alone in state on the sand. The position was very unbecoming, Mr. Trevor felt, but he also felt he could not move from it. There he sat, with pains in his foot, and a very disagreeable sensation all over him. He did not care to think much, somehow; his complacence had been disturbed by that sudden and ignominious tumble from the road. But there was no help for it. "That confounded pony shall be shot," decided Mr. Trevor, and that was alL " Nick " ran but a poor chance for his life in the Squire of Sanda's irate mind during these moments. Presently, however, he BENEATH THE WAVE. 115 heard voices on the road above him, and a minute or two later Lu Featherstone and Hilda Marston came running to his side. He frowned when he saw Hilda, but Hilda never noticed it. Lu, in fact, had given rather a highly coloured description of the accident when she had reached the Hall. Poor Mr. Trevor had been thrown from the cart, she had told them, and quietly ignored the fact that poor Mr. Trevor had scrambled out of the cart himself, and so met with his deserts. Thus Hilda was all sympathy, and the squire felt himself soothed and comforted by the condolences of the two young ladies. The carriage would be here directly, Lu told him, and the servants to help him into it; but she had felt so anxious about him that she could not wait to return until it was ready. This naturally sounded pleasant to Mr. Trevor's yet tingling ears. But still he was not happy. "I have had a severe shake," he said, glancing at Lu, and then at Hilda. 116 BENEATH THE WAVE. "Yes, indeed," answered Lu, "but we ought to be thankful that it is no worse." *'If 1 had only not endeavoured to stop the cart," said Mr. Trevor, rather feebly. "Yes, if you had thought more of your- self and less of me," said Lu, casting down her eyes; and these clever flattering words dilmost restored the Squire of Sanda to himself. " I could not do that. Miss Lucinda," he said, straightening his necktie, which had got rather awry during his tumble. **In endeavouring to save you I have met with rather an awkward fall, but it was my duty." " It was very good of you," said Lu, still without looking up. And this explanation of the squire's sprain was afterwards gene- rally received and believed by the whole neighbourhood. CHAPTER VII. Hilda's pupils. The squire's accident made some difference in the arrangements of the young ladies staying at the Hall. It had been originally fixed by Patty and Lu Featherstone that they were to return home the day after the wedding ; but to leave poor Mr. Trevor alone when he was in such pain^ Lu said, was impossible, and Patty made no objections to their remaining. Hilda Marston also did not like to speak to Mr. Trevor about business when he was ilL She wrote, however, to her old friend the schoolmistress (at whose school she had been educated), and told her the position in which she found herself ; and this lady (who 118 BENEATH THE WAVE. ako had known trouble) sent her a kind letter in reply. She invited Hilda to come and stay with her for a little while, and said that she would endeavour to get her pupils for singing and music, but warned her that at first this would be very difficult, and she must not, therefore, raise her expecta- tions too high. Still the letter was very comforting, and enabled her to bear the brunt of her sister s displeasure when Hilda informed her that all her gloomy prognostications about Mr. Trevor had come true. " I told you what would happen," wrote Marian Marston; "and," she added, "the next thing you hear will be that Mr. Trevor will be marrying some one else." In this prophecy Hilda fully concurred with her sister. Lu Featherstone was not a girl who did things slyly. She openly devoted herself to Mr. Trevor and his sprained foot, and the probable consequences were, of course, patent to all. Nay, so natural is it to women to nurse and be BENEATH THE WAVE. 119 kind to sick people, that Lu grew to like Mr. Trevor much better after his fall. She got more accustomed to him for one thing, for when a man is iU there are many little things he requires to be done for him which create intimacy, and Lu did everything she cotdd for Mr. Trevor. Thus it surprised no one when they announced they were engaged. Patty Featherstone was delighted when this happened, and Lu wa« serious, but not unhappy. She had accepted Mr. Trevor for his position, but she meant to be a good wife to him, and was not marrying him by any means in the same spirit that Isabel had married Sir George Hamilton. "If he is generous enough to give me money and a good home," she told her sister, ''I mean in return to give him both duty and, I trust, affection. Not every man would marry a penniless girl like me." As for jovial Antony Featherstone, he was overjoyed at his girl's good luck* Sometimes a dim vision had passed through 120 BENEATH THE WAVE. his mind that the (ky might come when he would have to leave his daughters to the world's cold mercies, and an uncomfortable feeling for a moment or two had on their account disturbed his easy-going and not over-tender heart. But now it was all right. The " old boy," as he privately designated Mr. Trevor, would look after them both, and Antony need have no more care for their future. So he made merry after his fashion on the occasion, and drank and boasted to his soul's content. Mr. Trevor wrote to him (a pompous letter we may be sure), and Antony answered it in his careless sprawling hand-writing. But he wrote very highly of his daughter, and told Mr. Trevor that he was a lucky fellow to have got such a prize. Indeed, to do Antony justice, he believed in his girls. They were good girls he often said, and in his way he was proud of them, though he would not have denied himself a single gratification for their sakes. It was about a week after the squire's BBNEATH THB WAYS. 121 accident and Isabel's wedding day, when Lu Featherstone announced her engagement to her sister and Hilda Marston. Both the Featherstones liked Hilda Marston very much by this time; and the squire, in his gratification at being accepted by one handsome girl, had almost forgotten his mortification at being refused by another. Thus the party at Sanda Hall had got on very harmoniously together. But after the engagement was announced Hilda felt that it was time for her to seek another inter- view with the squire. This was a much more agreeable one than the last. Mr. Trevor was dignified, but affable; and when Hilda told him about the correspondence which had passed between herself and her old schoolmistress^ be signified his approval of the course she had taken. "And I may tell you, Miss Marston," he added, drawing out his cheque book, '' that I have always intended presenting you with a year s salary when you quitted 122 BENEATH THE WAVE. my establishment. I beHeve that it was settled you were to receive forty pounds a year as my daughter's companion ? Allow me, therefore, to present you with a cheque for that amount/' And Mr. Trevor handed a cheque which he had just filled in, to Hilda. ** I thank you. I am very grateful," said Hilda. Mr. Trevor waved his hand graciously. "You will find. Miss Marston," he said, " that though I admit no claims on my beneficence, that when I choose I can give with no niggard hand. But I will not allude further to my many charities. I act, as I may indeed conscientiously say, always up to the rules of life that I consider the duty of a gentleman in my position. Regarding your brother Edward," he continued, " I am willing to defray the expenses of his education until Christmas. After that, as I may have ftiture claims on my purse which I cannot forsee, I must decline any longer to burden myself with his maintenance." BENEATH THE WAVE. 123 " I will take him to live with me/' said Hilda. "Miss May, the lady I told you of, hopes to be able to get me some pupils, and I shall also have time to educate Edward myself." "No doubt, abundant time," said the squire. " And I should advise you not to over-educate him. I consider this is one of the mistakes of the present day. Formerly gentlemen and the sons of gen- tlemen only were highly educated. Now young men without position or fortune are pushed forward, and this has caused, to my mind, a most dangerous class to arise." " Yes," said Hilda, meekly, for she could not exactly follow the squire's argument. " As your brother's future position in life will probably be a clerk in an office," con- tinued Mr. Trevor, "I should advise you, therefore, to teach him only sound English, and if he has any idea of a mercantile career French would be desirable. But all books of a dangerous tendency, such as would 124 BSNSATH THE WAYS. induce to free thinking on any point, scmpulouslj keep out of his way. His sphere of life will necessarily he a narrow one, and his ideas, therefore, should he in accordance." Hilda could scarcely forhear a smile at this. The narrow-minded squire laying down the law, and thinking all the while how clever he was, touched her sense of humour, and with an effort only could she preserve a proper humility of countenanca I — ^will try to remember," she said. Do so," replied the squire ; " and I assure you that you have my good wishes for your future welfare." " And — I must offer you my congratula- tions," said Hilda. " Thank you," said the squire, graciously. ** Yes, I have decided," he added, "now that my daughter has left me, to form a second marriage, and I think that I have been fortunate in my choice of the lady." " Indeed you have," said Hilda, warmly ; for she liked the Featherstones very much. BENEATH THE WAVE. 125 " Miss Lucinda Featherstone is attractive as a young lady," continued the squire, " and I have no doubt she will be yet more attractive as a married one. If you will &vour us with your address when you are settled in town, I shall desire cards to be forwarded to you on the occasion of my marriage." Again Hilda said " thank you," for these gracious words ; and then, after a few more speeches, her interview with the squire was over. She left his presence with a lightened heart. Little Ned was to be taken care of until Christmas, and by that time Hilda hoped to be settled and at work, and at all events to have some sort of home to receive him in. Mr. Trevor's gift, and the price Isabel had given her for her locket, made up a respectable sum, and altogether Hilda felt in better spirits than she had done since she had known that the squire's patronage was to be withdrawn from herself and her family. She left Sanda two days after this inter- view and proceeded direct to town. Miss 126 BENEATH THE WAVE. May (the lady at whose school she had formerly been) received her kindly, and it seemed somewhat like the old school days again when she found herself once more among a lot of girls. But when she had been with Miss May before she had a father and a home, as most of these young girls had now, and the change sometimes made her very sad. The prospect, too, which lay before her was not a pleasant one, for Hilda shrank from going among strangers, and to solicit favours was not easy to one of her nature. But she had little Ned to think of, as well as herself, " the boy brother, whose fortunes she had so seriously injured," Marian Marston wrote to her; and Hilda felt that in some measure her sister's words were true. So she practised assiduously, and was pronounced competent to give both music and singing lessons by the good- natured music master who attended the school. Miss May promised to try to get her some pupils, but Hilda's hopes grew very low as day after day passed and none could BENEATH THE WAVE. 127 be heard of. She received one or two kind letters during this time from the Feather- stones^ and one from Lady Hamilton. Isabel had forgotten something at Sanda that she wanted, and wrote to her late companion to forward it to her at Paris, never remem- bering that Hilda would in all probability have left Sanda by this time. In this letter Isabel mentioned her father's approaching marriage. '^ I am utterly as- tonished at the news," she wrote ; " but my fixture stepmother wishes me to be present at the marriage, and we shall therefore return to England early next month, when I believe the event is to take place." But though she wrote thus discreetly, she had not spoken so when she had first received her father's letter announcing his engage- ment. With a contemptuous exclamation she had flimg the letter on a table near which she was seated at breakfast, and Sir George, who was opposite to her, looked up in surprise from his newspaper as she did so. 128 BENEATH THE WAVE. "My dear Isabel, what is the matter?*' he asked. " He is a fool ! " said Isabel, with curling lip* " His Lucinda, indeed I Anyone's Lucinda who would be mad enough to marry into such a famUy as theire." " Of whom are you speaking ? " said Sir George. " Of my father," answered Isabel " But you can read the letter. He has actually been infatuated enough to propose to Lu Featherstone ! " Sir George looked grave for a moment, and then he said — "Isabel, is that a proper way to speak of your father ? " Isabel shrugged her shoulders. " My good creature," she said, " I did not come to Paris to go to school." And Sir George, as he heard her answer, looked for a moment in her face, and then rose from the table with a heavy sigh. They had been married just about a fort- night at this time, and already Isabel had BENEATH THE WAVE. 129 frequently given way to her temper and caprices. But he loved her still. The power of her beauty held him still. At times^ too, she exerted herself to charm Mm, but she was very tired of it. She liked many things better than Sir George Hamilton. Admiration, the world's good gifts, *Hhe pride of life." She hr.d all these; and Sir Georges generous, nay, lavish hand, grudged her nothing. She had only to express admiration for a thing, and if he could get it for her it was hers. But still she did not love him. She was not even grateful to him, for she estimated herself so highly that she thought nothing too good to be squandered at her feet. And Sir George saw all this. Not, per- haps, that she did not love him, for the human heart is vain, and it is hard to believe that a violent affection meets with no return. But he saw that she was selfish, and wonderfully capricious. And yet he was ready to forgive her, to tell himself that she had been badly brought up, that VOL. II. K BENEATH THE 'WAVE. she liad beea spoilt, that In time all 1 faults might pass away. But he was not happy. He watched ] eyes wander away from his to seek a 1( of admiration from some passing Strang He listened to the words that fell from ] lovely rosy lips, and heard ho noble, ] even tender one. Isabel was charming s coquettish to him sometimes, but he 1 he could never lay his head on her shouli and teU her of his heart's weariness; i her what he could have told her if she 1 been a loving and faithful wife. Isabel was exceedingly annoyed, as have seen, at the news of her fatb engagement. It would affect her social she thought. To be connected with broken down family like the Feathersto: must be a disadvantage to the new Li HamUtou, who meant to hold her head high. But after her first anger was over i felt she could do nothing to prevent and that therefore it would be well to BENEATH THE WAVE. 131 on civil terms at all events with her fatheT^ef young wife. But it was a bitter pill. Reck- less Antony Peatherstone rose before her mind's eye, famiUax a^id encroaching. Then there was Patty — ^Patty, who would expect' to be chaperoned, and who was too honest and freenapoken to be converted into a useftJ or convenient friend. Altogether, Isabel disliked the match, but she wrote a fairly- kind letter to her father when she did write, and sent a message to ''his Lucinda," the satire of which term she could not resist pointing out to Sir George. " Let us hope they may be happy, Bella," answered Sir George, smiling, when sl36*^ showed him her letter; atid he stooped down and kissed her fair cheek as he spoke: ''Let us pray so,'' said Isabel, scoffingly, " for there is' no reasonable hope." These words, as so many of her words did, jarred on Sir George's ears. But he did not say this. He stood looking at her, wondering-' if she ever would be gentle and ' 132 BENEATH THE WAVE. womanly, as his mother had been ; as he most ardently longed that she might be. *^ She is marrying him," presently con- tinued Isabel, still speaking of her father's distasteful engagement, "to save herself from being a governess or something of that sort; for, of course, when Mr. Feather- stone dies, if they are still unmarried, they will be lefk paupers in the world. Certainly one can scarcely wonder at it, for do you know I had a letter from Hilda Marston to-day, and she is absolutely going to be- come a teacher of music." " Indeed ! Where is she now ? " asked Sir George. " At some school at Brixton, I think her address is. Oh ! I dare say she will do very well," added Isabel; "for she was always an industrious patient kind of person. As for me, I would kill a child, I think, rather than teach one a note." "Don't talk like that, Bella." " Very well, sir," said Isabel, looking up with her bright smile. " I will give you BENEATH THE WAVE. 133 some pretty talk. I will take lessons in music from Hilda Marston, so as to be able to teach all the dear little unwashed — I was going to say brats — ^but I correct myself, all the dear little youthful inhabi- tants of your estate at Massam, and you shall have the pleasure of listening to our mutual performances." " Very well/' said Sir George ; but the next moment Isabel began to talk of some- thing else. She had forgotten all about Hilda Marston. She allowed her to drift out of her mind, and away from the luxu- rious pleasures of her life, under the impres- sion " that she would do very well." But this was far from being the real truth of the case. By this time Hilda had left Miss May's (her old schoolmistress's), and had taken rooms, and begun her struggle for daily bread. She advertised in several papers, but no one, in all human probability, ever read the modest lines in which she announced that she was prepared to receive pupils, although 134 BENEATH THE WAVE. • jlihese modest line^ cost her ^ litt^ mm that ^^e could ill afford to spare. Thei^.^he askod for permission, and paid for pern^ssion, to j^lace her cards in the music-shop windows pf the p^ort of the town in which she lived ; fbut still without any result. Sl^e had been ^ fortnight alone in her little rooms, with only disappointment for her companiop, ^jvben one morning she receive^ a note from Miss ]V[ay, inviting her to go to her hou^e ^during the a^fbemoon, as she had heard of jtyro likely pupils for her. Tbey were old pupils of her own, Miss May wrote, and .W?wited a musical young lady to practise constantly with them ; and Miss May thought 1Fr,i,1da might probably suit them. Poor Hilda ! She was sensitive ^Jid tiender, and she trembled whiMi she heard of jthe near approach of what she had been so anxiously hoping for. Often I think of the timid gentlewomen who are left to fight the world's hard battles. Men go into these with honour, and mostly the best men win; but what can women as a rule win ? A bare BENEATH THE WAVE. 135 living and no honour. This is the real truth as regards this world; perhaps in the next the meek daughters of toil may meet with a better reward. Miss May's school was not a very grand establishment. It was situated in Brixton, where a neat villa, enclosed in its own grounds, and guarded from the outer world by a high brick waU, was rented by Miss May, and had been rented for the last twenty years. It was an old-fashioned, old- established school in fact, and Miss May herself was now an old woman. But she was a good soul. A little eccentric, perhaps, and of sharp and sarcastic tongue; but a woman who meant well, fearing God, and trying her best to keep His laws, and also acting well towards her neighbours. She was a lady, too, and had a hard hit now and then at the "great families of yesterday," amongst which she principally lived. '* I never mention people's grandfathers, my dears," she used sometimes to say to her 136 BENEATH THE WAVE. pupils. " Mine, poor man, was the Vicar of Normanton — ^yet, you see !" And she would shrug her angular shoulders, to the great edification of the girls. "But he had better have been a linendraper, or a grocer, or a tavern-keeper, or something that makes money. Then I should not have had the enjoyment of your society." And the old woman used to laugh and show her white prominent teeth. But in spite of her queer ways she was very kind. She had taken a sort of fancy too (and she took strong likes and dislikes) to Hilda Marston. For one thing, she came of gentle birth, and for another, Hilda was clever, good-looking, and upright. The shrewd old woman saw a good deal with those blinking eyes of hers, and she thought she saw in Hilda's face the indi- cations of a true and honest heart. " If she had been a linendraper 's daughter with twenty thousand pounds for her fortune, all the men would have been raving about her," she thought. "As, poor girl, she is BENEATH THE WAVE. 137 only a clergyman's and a gentleman's daugh- ter, no one will ever rave about her; and she will probably end her days, as I shall end mine, a lonely old maid, teaching the children of those whose grandfathers were bom in the position of her grandfather's servants." So she had tried to do her best for Hilda, and was unwilling to let her go when the girl announced that she must leave her kindly roof. "Wait here until you really get some pupils," she urged. "Your little stock of money will slip away in no time if you don't. You are quite welcome to stay here." But Hilda's sense of right would not allow her to do this. She knew that Miss May had worked hard for her money, and still worked for it, and as her staff of governesses was complete she felt that she had no right to encroach on her old friend's kindness. So she went away, and took two small rooms near the Victoria 138 BENEATH THE WAVE. Station^ as she thought that this would be a central situation to travel from to the different parts of London, where she hoped to find her pupils. But none had ever come. Her money (as Miss May had pro- phesied) was sUpping fast away, and days, almost weeks passed on, and stil] no pupils came. At last the note about the two expected ones arrived from Miss May; and with a beating heart Hilda found herself ringing at the bell of the gate of Octavia Villa, Brixton, and having been admitted into the neat grounds, was kindly received by Octavia herself. This was the name that the school girls (among themselves) usually gave to their mistress. The " ancient Octavia," they called her, after the name inscribed on her villa gates, though the name had been there long before Miss May had taken the house. But if girls, with homes and fathers, felt inclined to laugh at Miss May and her peculiarities, the homeless and fatherless BENEATH THE WAVE. 139 girl to whom she had been kind certainly 4id not. Miss May kissed Hilda, and then, having discreetly closed the drawing-room «door, proceeded to give her ex-pupil what ^e called a few hints. " Now, my dear," she said, " I've got a few words to say to you, and the first of these is, remember, you are not going among gentle-folk." Hilda smiled at this good-temperedly. " Eich people can buy nearly everything," continued Miss May, " but they can't buy .&»e feelings. They can get fine houses, fine .carpets and curtains, but they can't get the gentle deUcacy of the well-bom in a hurry. I m an old woman now, and have gone through life in a dependent position, and therefore I'm a good judge — ^the lower and the more vulgar people are, the ruder and more inconsiderate they are to anyone who is obliged to work for their daily bread." ** I can understand that," said Hilda. " Well, I suppose that is natural," said .Miss May, pithily. "However, to go on 140 BENEATH THE WAVE. with the ladies — you see I give them the title by courtesy — ^who are coming here to-day to see you, are not real ladies. They are the wife and daughters of a Mr. Moxam, who is a merchant in the city, and a very rich man; and they presume on this, and are very disagreeable young women in consequence." " Still they want music lessons ? " said Hilda, laughing. "They want a young person — ^pray re- member you will be considered a person at Florentia Villa — to practise daily with the young ladies, so that (as Mrs. Moxam graphically remarked) the favoured young person may ^push them on.' Their 'pa/ she says, is anxious they should be first- rate musicians, and they have expensive lessons twice a week, but they don't prac- tise enough. They want some one to grind them, in fact. Do you understand?" " I think so," answered Hilda. " And now, my dear, I wish to give you a hint," continued Miss May, "how to BENEATH THE WAVE. 141 behave to people with no grandfathers. You must " But here she paused abruptly, for a rap came to the room door, and the next moment Miss May's neat waiting-maid announced : **Mrs. and the Misses Moxam." "Ah, Mrs. MoxamI" said Miss May, advancing to receive her visitors perfectly at ease, for she always said that she had gone through so much that she would not be disconcerted if the king entered the room, though she did not specify which of their defunct majesties she would have received with composure. " Well, my dears" (this was addressed to the Misses Moxam) ; " and how are you this cold day V **Only pretty well," answered Mrs. Moxam, languidly. ^' In fact, as I tell Mr. Moxam, another year I am deter* mined to winter abroad. "Well, it's the fashion, you know," said Miss May. "And so essential to health," said Mrs. Moxam. 142 B»raATH THE WATB. "Have you ever been abroad f winter?" asked Miss May, who b perfect knowledge that Mrs. Moxam had not. " Well, not exactly," replied Mrs. Mc hesitatingly. " But about this 3 person of whom you spoke, Miss 1 she added, changing the conversation, we see her?" " This is the young lady I mention you," said Miss May, moving her hai the direction of Hilda^ "Allow m introduce Miss Hilda Marston." Mrs. Moxam bowed coldly on th Hilda; and the Misses Moxam bowed ci Then all the three ladies looked her as they would have looked over a dre a shawl lying on a Unendraper's coi She was purchaseable also, so nati they thought they had a right to exs bar. " You — ah ! teach music, I think ? " Mrs,- Moxam, affectedly. " Yes," answered Hilda, the burning' BENEATH THE WAVE. 143 on her face betraying what she was feel- ing. *' Ah — well . Do you understand high class music, do you think? Are you com- petent to push on these young ladies after they have received instruction from Signor Salviati, whose charges, as perhaps you- are aware, are immense ? " ''I — I — ^hope so," faltered Hilda, "Miss Marston is quite competent," interrupted Miss May, with decision, "otherwise I would not have recommended her. She is a young lady of natural muaical aJ>mty, and she has been well instructed" *"Ah, I dare say. Well, then. Miss Marston, what are your terms?" Then followed a poUte wrangle between Mrs. Moxam and Miss May about what terms Hilda should ask. Mrs. Moxam evinced a surprising meanness during Hm discussion for so fine a lady, and Miss May showed a good deal of the energetic sharp- ness which sometimes distinguished her. 144 BENEATH THE WAVE. While the two elder ladies were arguing the point, Hilda Marston sat covered with confusion and with her eyes cast down ; but the Misses Moxam looked occasionally at each other, and smiled superciliously. At last Hilda rose, and laid her hand entreat- ingly on Miss May's arm. ''Don't say any more, please. Miss ' May," she half whispered. " I'll take what Mrs. Moxam considers right." Mrs. Moxam heard the whisper and saw the girl's piteous look, and she grew in consequence a shade less hard. Miss May also slightly modified her demands after Hilda s appeal, and finally the ladies came to terms. It was then agreed that Hilda was to go every day to Florentia Villa, and practise music and singing for two hours with the Misses Moxam. For this she was to receive a certain remuneration, which Mrs. Moxam agreed to increase if she gave satisfaction. ''And my son, Joe," said Mrs. Moxam, before she took her leave, with no small BENEATH THE WAVE. 145 pride in her voice and manner, "will, I dare say, sometimes join his sisters in their duets. He has a fine voice, a true bass I am told, but he wants a little cultivation they say, though for my part I think he sings extremely well as it is." *'My dear," said Miss May to Hilda, after their visitors were gone, "you must take care of youi' heart. Young Moxam, whose bass voice you are to have the honour of cultivating, is simply the most odiously vulgar, ill-bred young man I ever met, and that is saying a good deal." VOL. n. CHAPTER VIII. " HOW WONDERFUL IS DEATH ! " While Hilda Maraton was thus beginning her new career in London, at a village by the sea, on the coast of Devon, Mrs. Hayward was dying. She knew it and he knew it, who watched and waited on her with a girl's tenderness, who, in accepting Sir George Hamilton's generous gift, had laid self aside. But for his mother's sake Hayward had done this, so that she might have every comfort and luxury to soothe her last hours. They were very peaceful ones. Outside, the morning sun was glittering and shining on the winter sea, whose waves came rippling and rolling into the bay. Inside, the mother BENEATH THE WAVE. 147 lay, with her hajid clasped fast in her son's ; while kneeling by the bedside, in solemn gentle tones, Horace Jervis, the curate, was reading portions of the Bible that he thought suitable to one who was so near a closer knowledge of their truth. Mrs. Hayward had not spoken for some hours. Her eyes were apparently closed to all outward things; and yet as the waves broke she seemed to hear them, for her fingers slightly moved, as if with instinctive sympathy to the sound. On her face was the pallor of coming death, but round her lips lingered, as if it could not go, the sweet and patient smile which had been one of her characteristics during the latter years of her life. Philip Hayward looked pale and haggard. He had been sitting up all night with his mother, and his face wa^ worn and sharpened. For her the heat and burden of the day were over ; for him the toil, the sweating brow, the weary task, were still to come. 148 BENEATH THE WAVE. " The righteous cry, and the Lord heareth them, and delivereth them out of all their troubles," read the curate ; " The Lord delivereth the souls of his servants, and they that put their trust in Him shall not be destitute." As he paused a moment, the dying woman began to murmur some inarticulate words> and both the young men started and looked in her face as she did so. They saw there was a strange and glorious change. The dim eyes had opened, and the closed lips moved. She was looking upwards, as if she saw beyond the narrow confines of the scene around. A look serene, but full of joy and wonder, had usurped the usual placid patient expression of her face. " She sees heaven ! " said the curate, in a voice of awe. " Mother ! mother ! " cried Hay ward ; and as that loved voice reached the ears that were about to close to earthly sounds, she looked back once more on her dear son's face. BENEATH THE WAVE. 149 " Mother, do you know me ? " again asked Hayward; and she answered by stretching out the hand that was not in her son's, towards Horace Jervis. "Be his brother," she said, addressing the curate in the husky tones of death, who eagerly sprang forward and clasped her hand. "Be a brother to my boy after I am gone." "I will," said Horace Jervis, fervently. " There will be no sighing nor sorrowing there, Philip," continued Mrs. Hayward, again looking upwards. " None — ^none ^" And then — even as she spoke — a glory that was not of earth again seemed re- flected on her face, her eyes once more lit up with wonder and delight, and, with a smile of ineffable joy and trust, the next moment her spirit had passed away. "She is with God," said Horace Jervis, falling on his knees, while Hayward gave a startled awe-struck cry. '* My brother !" then said Horace, holding out his hand. 150 BENEATH THE WAVE. *' Hush !" he added the next minute^ "she may hear still — grieve not her pa«rt- ing spirit by the thought of your dis- tress." So the two men knelt there still and silent. The waves came rolling and breaking into the bay. The voices of the children playing on the shore, and the harsh cries of the fishermen as they moored and unmoored their boats, broke at intervals on their ears, but they seemed to hear them like those who dream. They were in the presence of the mystery of Death. Between them and the woman who had just spoken, had come a silence that would end no more. The loving mother, the faithful friend, could not now speak words of comfort. She was gone! The awful and inevitable hour was come, when all that are bom of woman must taste of death. Later in the day, when the dusky evening had crept over the sea, and the mists had BENEATH THE WAVE. 151 wrapped the rocks and headlands^ making them seem weird-like and mysterious in the murky gloom, Philip Hayward and Horace Jervis were walking together on the shore. '* Pardon me, but I think you are wrong, Philip," said the curate. " Perhaps so," answered Hayward, gloom- ily, " but what matter ? I have nothing to live for now." '* Nay, do not say that," answered Horace Jervis. "We all have something to live for, all to hope for, all to toil for. The nobler and higher a man's career is, the more good he may do — ^therefore I wish my brother to be ambitious." The curate had a sweet thrilling voice, through which the truth seemed to vibrate, and as he spoke he gently pressed the arm of Hayward, on which he was leaning, who was deeply touched by the young man's kindness. " So you mean to keep your promise — to her ^" said Hayward, in rather a 152 BENEATH THE WAVE. broken voice. "Then I shall not be quite alone in the world." "Not as long as God spares me," an- swered Jervis, simply. "But as I was saying, I think you are wrong," he con- tinued. " This Sir George Hamilton seems an honourable and generous gentleman, and in accepting help fix>m him to push you forward in any career you may choose, you are incurring no debt. Remember, he is indebted to you for what no money could purchase." "There are reasons," said Hayward, briefly, "why I cannot accept any more favours from Sir George Hamilton. While my mother lived it was different. For her sake I would have done almost anything. Now I shall return to town, and Newcome will, I've no doubt, give me back my old post. "Do not decide hastily," urged the curate. " Come to me, at all events, first. I want you to help me with my work," he added, with a smile. " And, you must not BENEATH THE WAVE. 153 be angry — ^I think my brother is too good a man for a printer's office." "It gives me daily bread— that is enouffh," said Hayward : and he turned his hJr away to S the bitter emotions passing in his heaxt. Yes, these were bitter days for Hayward. Days when he learned that the man whose money he had taken, whose money had soothed and comforted his mother's last hours, was now wedded to Isabel Trevor, had been wedded the very day after he had accepted such a favour from his hands. When he knew this, pangs of shame, humiliation, of fierce anger and pain took possession of his heart. He fought and wrestled with these like a brave man, hiding his feelings for his mother's sake, so that she might pass her last days in peace. But there were dark hours that she knew not of, and groans wrung from his lips that the sea-birds only heard. Night after night he used to wander on the shore while the stars looked down on his restless agony. 154 BSKEATH THS WAYK. Then the change came, and his mother's end drew nigh. The wild passion that tore his heart grew pale in the presence of death. The eternity that she was about to enter dwarfed the strongest and bitterest of mortal pangs. But though this was so, on one point they left him resolute. He would accept no further favours from Sir George Hauulton. Though by far the larger portion of the sum Sir George had forced upon him remained untouched in his hands after his mother's death, yet he gave orders for her frmeral to be conducted in the most simple and modest fashion He had made up his mind, in fact, to return Sir George's money, and to decline all further assistance from him. " She shall not taunt me for being a hanger-on of a rich man^ at least," he thought, with curling lip. Yes, he thought of her still. He was thinking of her when Horace Jervis urged him not to refuse Sir George's oflfer, when he decided to throw BENEATH THE WAVE. 155 away all chance of rising in life, and to content himself with unambitious toil. "These will give me my daily bread," he said, hol4 out his'stro^ bro™ hands, as the curate continued to urge him not absolutely to decline Sir George's proposal. "But what about the strong clear brain ?" said Jervis. " Will you hide the talents that are your Master's gift, or, as the good and faithful servant did, use them to the honour and glory of His name T CHAPTER IX. BRIDE AND BRIDEGROOM. Mr. Hannaway had always been a great man at Massam. During Sir George Hamilton's prolonged absence from England he had the entire control of the estates, and had managed them with much prudence and discretion. He was a popular man also ; a man who was at once just and generous in his business transactions, and who was ever ready to help a neighbour in his hour of need. The late Lady Hamilton had, however, not liked him. He was too free a liver for her taste, and had moreover too loose ideas of morality to suit the strict. God- fearing woman who spent her quiet days BENEATH THE WAVE. 157 of widowhood aknoet alone at Massam Park. But stiU she did him justice. He waa a first-rate man of business^ and had no temptations to dishonesty. His father had left him a good fortune, and his professional income was large. He lived, in fact, more like a country gentleman than a lawyer, always riding a good horse, Mid hunting and shootins: refirularly. He was a hand* perous, and was a welcome guest at almost every house in the neighbourhood. He admired the nlw Lady Hamilton immensely, and used to go about saying so right and left. "She's a lovely creature," he would tell the jovial red-£aced farmers, who came to pay their rents at his office, when speaking of theu* landlord's new wife. "She is a splendid woman," he would say to the sporting squires he met on the himting field. "Wait imtil you see Lady Hamilton ; she's the greatest beaui^ I ever saw." 158 BENEATH THE WAYS. Public curiosity was thus excited about Isabel's appearance before she returned to Massam as a bride. There had always been a sort of mystery about Sir George Hamil- ton, and people had said things concerning his prolonged absence and its cause that they would not care to hear repeated now. Mr. Hannaway was supposed to know more of the owner of Massam's private life than he chose to tell. Men sometimes chaffed Hannaway about this, but he was always reticent. "He's been a lucky fellow," he would say now, on any of these allusions being made. "He's married the handsomest woman by far that I know." Then the news came that Lu Featherstone was going to marry Mr. Trevor, Lady Hamilton's father. This created a good deal of gossip and excitement in the neigh- bourhood also. The Featherstones were known to be in such difficulties, and Sir George Hamilton was known to be so rich, that people began to speculate and wonder BENEATH THE WAVE. 159 if Antony Featherstone would now get out of his troubles. Antony himself, on the strength of his daughter's engagement, boldly asked Mr. Hannaway to lend him a thousand pounds. But Mr. Hannaway was wary. He wished to keep on good terms with Antony, on account of his future connection with Lady Hamilton, but he was afraid of losing his money. He, therefore, advanced five hun- dred pounds to reckless Antony, although he knew that the property was mortgaged to the hall doors. He called, too, and complimented Lucinda so cordially on her engagement, after her return home, that Patty declared that she had nearly lost her heart to the good-looking lawyer. Alto- gether he was on pleasant terms with the Featherstone family, and when Sir George Hamilton wrote from Paris to announce the day of their proposed return to Massam, Mr. Hannaway rode over to tell the Featherstones. "Your future lovely stepdaughter," he 160 BENEATH THE WAVE. said, smilingly addressing Lucinda, " returns on Thursday. We really ought to get up some sort of demonstration to show our joy." But another letter that he received froia Sir George expressly forbade this. " Don't make any fuss about our return, pleaa^ Hannaway," wrote the baronet, "for you know I hate that kind of thing." And thus Mr. Hannaway's ideas of ornamental arches, of addresses from the tenantry, and speeches from Sir George and the beauti- ful Lady Hamilton, were all nipped in the bud. He went to the Park, however, to receive the bride and bridegroom, and was waiting on the terrace when they arrived. "Welcome home, Lady Hamilton!" he said, opening the carriage door; '*a thou- sand welcomes ! " Isabel answered him with a gracious smile. It was dark, but by the carriage lamps, and the lights from the house, she could see the lawyer s handsome face and his looks of eager admiration. BENEATH THE WAVE. 161 *' Well, Hannaway ? " said Sir George, and he shook his lawyer's hand. "You snubbed my ideas of welcome so cruelly. Sir George," said Mr. Hannaway, smiling, "that I dared not allow one of the tenants to know the exact time of your return. Would you believe. Lady Hamil- ton," he continued, addressing Isabel, ^' that Sir Greorge forbade us to express our feelings of delight and enthusiasm at the idea of your return ? He characterized my proposal as ' stuff that he hated ! ' " And Mr. Hannaway laughed, and showed his white and even teeth. "Nay, Hannaway, that is an exaggera- tion," said Sir George. "At all events, I was to do nothing," answered Mr. Hannaway. " In fact, I confess I felt afraid even to come to the Park myself — but the temptation was too strong." Mr. Hannaway dropped his voice as he uttered the last few words, but though Sir George did not hear them Isabel did. This VOL. II. M 162 BENEATH THE WAVE. was what he intended. He wished the new Lady Hamilton to know that he admired her immensely, that he was ready^ in fact, to become her devoted slave. '*You will dine with us, of course, Hannaway ? " said Sir George, looking back as he was ascending the steps of the terrace ; and the lawyer answered that he would be only too glad. During this meal Isabel exerted herself to please, or rather to fascinate, Mr. Han- naway. She looked wonderfully beautifid, wearing a plain black velvet dress high to the throat, round which she wore a white ruff, her only ornaments being the diamond buttons of her bodice and a diamond ornament to fasten her ruff. "And what do you think," she said, smilingly addressing Mr. Hannaway, "of my fathers approaching marriage?" " I think," answered the lawyer dis- creetly, "that Miss Lucinda Featherstone is a very lucky young lady." "And a very clever one, I think," said BENEATH THE WAVE. 163 Isabel, with a scornful curve of her lip. But Sir George looked at her disap- provingly at these words, and so for the time she dropped the conversation. But during the evening (Sir George not being just then present • in the room) she resumed it. ''I did not like to say much before Sir George and the servants," she said to Mr. Hannaway, who was obsequious in his attention to her, " but I am really horribly annoyed. Fancy being connected with Mr. Featherstone ! " ''You see no probability of its being broken off, then ? " asked the lawyer. Not the least," answered Isabel. They are, I believe, to be married in a fortnight." " Of course, as a lawyer — I speak confi- dentially, Lady Hamilton — but of course, m my position I know of many things that might reasonably influence Mr. Trevor against Mr. Featherstone," said Mr. Han- naway, lowering his voice. " But then an 44 44 ' 164 BENEATH THE WAVE. old man in love, you know ! " And he laughed. " A dotard's folly ! " said Isabel, angrily, '* What do you know against him, Mr. Hannaway ? Whatever you tell me I will not repeat." '* For one thing, he asked me the other day to lend him a thousand pounds on the strength of his new connexion," answered Mr, Hannaway, with a smile. " And did you ? " said Isabel, eagerly. " I gave him half the sum he asked for," replied Hannaway. " But this will show you what sort of man he is. '^ I know what he is ! " said Isabel, rising indignantly. " Can we do anything to prevent it, Mr. Hannaway? I would give much — oh ! how much — if I could ! " *^ I think, perhaps," began Mr. Han- naway, but just at this moment the door of the small dra\ving-room, where they were sitting, opened, and Sir George appeared, and, with a slight gesture, Isabel motioned the lawyer to be silent. BENEATH THE WAVE. 165 But she did not let the subject rest. Early on the followmg morning a special messenger brought to Combe Lodge (where Mr, Hannavvay lived) a little note from Isabel. It only contained a few words, but the lawyer's cheeks flushed and his eyes sparkled as he perused them. In Isabel's clear handwriting he read as fol- lows : — "Dear Mr. Hannaway, — Sir George has ridden out this moriiing. Can you come over at once ? I wish to renew the con- versation that was interrupted last night about L. F. — ^Yours truly, '* I, Hamilton." Ten minutes later Mr. Hannaway was on the road. A handsome gentleman he looked on his handsome bay horse as he rode along. He felt full of triumph and pride. What, this lovely woman trusted him, then? She was about to be con- fidential to him; to talk to him as she 166 BENEATH THE WAVE. would not talk to her husband, and about her father too ? " But Sir George is so gloomy," reflected the lawyer, with a self-satisfied smile passing over his good-looking face. . " No wonder a woman prefers a little more life and vivacity." And again Mr. Hannaway smiled. Isabel received him very winningly. She told him, in her light coquettish manner, that she thought she could trust him; that Sir George (here she shrugged her fine shoulders) was so gloomy and stem, it was impossible to be confidential with him; and then she plainly asked him to tell her the full extent of Mr. Feather- stone's shortcomings ; adding that it was only right that her father should be told of them. '^ But how ? " asked the lawyer. "I will write him an anonymous letter," answered Isabel boldly; and so at her bidding Mr. Hannaway told her all that he knew. BENEATH THE WAVE. 167 Mr. Featherstone was deeply in debt; he had disreputable connections of all sorts ; he drank, he swore. There was nothing bad, in fact, that he could do, that he did not apparently do, so as still to be out of the clutches of the law ; and half jokingly, half in earnest, Mr. Hannaway certainly described him as not a very desirable gentleman to be connected with. " I will write to papa, to-day," said Isabel, determinedly, ii "But do not post it here," said the lawyer. " Entrust yoiit letter with me, and I wiU run up to town with it to- morrow." It was a mad thing for a wife to do, was it not? But Isabel had at times a strange recklessness in her nature that made her defy alike conventionality and consequences. As for Mr. Hannaway, he was but too pleased. Before they parted they had arranged it all. Isabel was to write her letter in a disguised hand to Mr. Trevor, detailing all Mr. Peatherstone's enormities, 168 BENEATH THE WAVE. and during the following morning she agreed to meet Mr. Hannaway in the grounds of Massam at an appointed place. She never thought of how she was com- mitting herself in the man's eyes. She only thought, '' This stupid man is in love with me, and will always be ready to do my will." She carried out her foolish scheme in fiill. She wrote a letter to her father (purporting to be from an unknown fiiend, who was sorry to see a respectable gentle- man about to make a fool of himself), and in this letter she abused Mr. Featherstone and his daughters to her heart's content. Mr. Hannaway, to do him justice, even to please Isabel had said nothing against the girls. " Poor things, they are to be pitied ! " he told her, but Isabel showed them scant pity. She exaggerated in her letter Mr. Hannaway 's information, and she cast out imputations that he certainly had not made. Had the lawyer seen her letter BENEATH THE WAVE. 169 he probably would not have been so eager to post it. As it was, he was delighted with the commission, and felt that, as a man of gallantry, he could not refuse so fair a lady's command. They met at the appointed place on the following day, and Isabel gave him her letter. " I am giving you a great deal of trouble," she said, with her sweetest smile. " You could give me no trouble," answered the lawyer, with emphasis, and Isabel smiled again. He left Massam during the afternoon with a fair vision ever before his eyes. Isabel was so beautiful that she bewitched men, stealing their senses away from them, and making them forget right and honour. Mr. Hannaway never remembered that he was acting dishonourably to Sir George. He only thought that Lady Hamilton had trusted him; that the loveliest woman he knew had condescended to treat him as a friend. 170 BENEATH THE WAVE. So he went up to town with her letter and posted it, and then returned to his home. He told her what he had done in a few low-spoken words, when Sir George was standing in another part of the room, on the day following his return. Thus a completely confidential understanding took place between them, and Mr. Hannaway felt a proud and happy man to know that it was so. But the day was not over — the day of his return to Yorkshire, after he had posted Isabel's letter in town — when he was once more called in to her assistance. Isabel had been out driving during the afternoon, and was sitting in her luxuri- antly-furnished dressing-room, amusing her- self until it was time to dress for dinner, by turning out the contents of her jewel- box. This was a favourite occupation of hers. She loved the sparkling stones — loved their glitter, and had pleasure also in thinking of their value. One after the other she was now placing her diamond BENEATH THE WAVE. 171 lings on her slender white fingers. This one Sir George had given her, this her fkther, and so on. Then she came to the one she had coveted and secured, which had been taken from the poor unknown woman's body that had come ashore at amda. She examined thi« ooe BOW with some interest. For one thing they were splendid stones which composed the hoop that had encircled the dead finger and clung to it amid the wild waves. Then, for another, the inscription on the inner rim was remarkable — " To my Beloved'' A tale of romance and woe seemed to lie in these simple words. Where was the lover now who had caused them to be inscribed, perhaps kissed them in his fond hour of love ? His *^ beloved " now lay in the little churchyard of Sanda-by-the-Sea •; but where was he who had placed the gKttering stones on the hand of her who had met so drear a fate? Isabel was vaguely thinking some such thoughts as these when her maid, after 172 BENEATH THE WAVE. rapping at her dressing-room door, appeared. "My lady," she said, "your father, Mr. Trevor, has arrived, and wishes to see you immediately." For a moment Isabel felt disconcerted^ but the next she quickly recovered herself. " Indeed ! " she said. " Show him up here at once. What can he have come for ? " The maid departed to do her bidding, and Isabel at once pulled off the ring which had belonged to the dead woman, and threw it back into the jewel-case, the lid of which she put down. She did not wish her father to see this ring. He had been annoyed by her keeping it to begin with, and before her marriage he had told her that he thought it right that, she should return it to his custody, so that if at any time the woman's rela- tions should appear to claim her property, that it might be ready for them. But Isabel had declined to comply with this very reasonable request. JBENEATH THE WAVE. 173 " It will be time enough to give it up when somebody asks for it," she had said; and nothing that Mr. Trevor could say- to her on the subject had any influence over her. So it remained among her rings, though Isabel had never worn it since her marriage, nor previous to it, in the presence of Sir George. She was afraid, in fact, that if he noticed it he would wish her to return it to her father, and she had determined that she would not give it up. So she shut her jewel-box, and a moment later her father entered the room. Her first glance at his face showed her that Mr. Trevor was in a terrible rage. The old man's face was pale — ^almost grey — his eyes had a fierce, fixed look, and the hand that he just touched Isabel's with was cold and trembling, " Papa," she said, '^ I am so surprised to see you. Have you just come ? " " I have come on most disagreeable busi- ness," jerked out the squire, " Shameful 174 BENEATH THE WAVE. business, I call it!" he added, raising his. voice. "Some scoundrel, some male or female wretch !" said the squire, almost shouting in his rage, "has written me a letter — a letter I received this morning — ^and I have come to investigate it. I shall not leave a stone unturned to discover] the perpe- trators of so gross an outrage." *'.What is it about V said Isabel, look- ing at her irate parent with some inward sense of amusement. " About ? It's about my marriage," roared the squire. " Here it is." And ha tore an open letter from his waistcoat pocket. " It begins," he continued, placing his double gold eye-glasses on his high nose, which, however, was trembling and snorting so with rage that the glasses dropped oflP. " It begins," he repeated, replacing them and going nearer the toilet lights on Isabel's dressing table, and commencing reading — " * Sir, — This is written by one who regrets to see a respectable gentleman Uke you, wha BENEATH THE WAVE. 175 has arrived at such a respectable age.' — There !" shouted the squire, almost beside himself, "What do you think of that? Respectable age, indeed ! Confounded impertinence — age, indeed !" "Well, papa, aren't you of a respect- able age V said Isabel, unable to resist a smile. " No impertinence, if you please, Isabel," said the squire, recovering his dignity. " You may think this is a joke, but I do not. I not only do not think it a joke," he added, " but I intend to punish, and punish severely also, the perpetrators of the outrage. He, or she, or they, have commit- ted themselves," he continued. "A name is mentioned ;" and the squire referred to the letter he held in his trembling hand, " the name of Mr. Hannaway, Sir George's law man and agent, and through him I shall trace the offender." " What does the letter say ?" said Isabel, holding out her hand for it. It was, no doubt, a shameful letter. It 176 BENEATH THE WAVE. went on to say (Isabel coolly read her own words with an unmoved countenance). It went on, then, after referring to Mr. Trevor s " respectable " age, to give an exaggerated account of Mr. Featherstone s life and ill- doings. But this was not all. It insinuated that if Mr. Trevor knew all that was to be known about the lives of Patty and Lucinda Featherstone, he would not i be so ready to marry one of them. *^ To prove," it ended in, " that this letter is written in good faith, the writer received sure information that Mr. Featherstone had asked for a loan of a thousand pounds, on the strength of his daughter's engagement, from Mr. Hannaway, the lawyer and mana- ger of Sir George Hamilton's estates, and that that gentleman (Mr. Hannaway) had actually been induced to advance five hundred." "Perhaps it is all true," said Isabel, laying down the letter on the dressing table after she had finished reading it. " It is not true !" said the squire, again BENEATH THE WAVE. 177 raising his voice. " It is a base tissue of lies written for a purpose ; but it will have no eflfect upon me. Whoever wrote it may tremble," continued Mr. Trevor, glaring wrathfully at Isabel, ''for if it were my own child I would expose and punish the offender." Just as the squire concluded this threat Sir George came into the dressing-room. ^'Mr. Trevor!" he said, in surprise, holding out his hand. Then Mr. Trevor, almost choking with rage, began his story again. He had re- ceived this shameful letter. He had been insulted. The person who wrote the letter must have had some motive. Mr. Trevor was determined to discover who that person was. He jerked out these sentences, literally white with rage. Then Sir George held out his hand for the letter, and as he read it, he also could scarcely forbear to smile, until he came to the imputations cast upon Lucinda and Patty. When he had read VOL. II. N 178 BENEATH THE WAVE. these, and finished the letter, he handed it back to the squire. " It is a shameful letter," he said. " The best way to come to the end of it is to send for Hannaway at once. If he has lent this money to Mr. Featherstone he will know to whom he has mentioned the fact, and if he has not done so he will certainly tell us the truth." '^Well, send for him at once then," said the squire. " At least, let us dine first," said Isabel, with a little shrug of her shoulders. "And, gentlemen," she added, smiling, "pray will you go away> and allow me to finish my toilet ? " " I will send for Hannaway," said Sir George, as he left the dressing-room. *' I will find out who has done it," said Mr. Trevor, determinedly, as he also dis- appeared. Sir George, before he dressed for din- ner, did send for Mr. Hannaway. He wrote as follows : — BENEATH THE WAVE. 179 '* My Dear Hannaway, — ^Mr. Trevor is here, and wishes to see you this evening. Some person has been ill-natured enough to write him an anonymous letter. Your name is mentioned in it as having ad- vanced a certain sum of money to Mr. Featherstone on the strength of his daughter's engagement. If this is true, and you lean remember (and choose to tell) to whom you mentioned the fact, Mr. Trevor hopes to trace his anonymous correspondent. If it is not true, I doubt his being able to do so. *' Come over as soon as it is convenient to you. — ^Yours, very truly, G. Hamilton. Sir George despatched this letter to Combe Lodge, by one of the grooms, about half-past seven o'clock, and Mr. Hannaway received it just as he was sit- ting down to his well-cooked and luxu- rious dinner. Before that meal was ended another note was brought to him, which 180 BENEATH THE WAVE. another groom had conveyed from the Park. This was from Isabel, and had been written in her dressing-room after her father and husband had left it, and then entrusted to her maid. The lawyer opened this second epistle and read these words : — "DijAR Mr. Hannaway, — ^Papa is here, and is in a terrible rage. He is going to ask you whom you told that Mr. Featherstone had borrowed the money of you, and he thinks through this to trace his friendly correspondent. I depend upon you completely. Decline to tell him ; and, of course, I know nothing. It will all end in nonsense, if you are true. — Yours most sincerely, I. H.'' CHAPTER X. Isabel's friend. Mr. Hannaway always took pains with his personal appearance. He liked to be considered what he really was — a good- looking, well-dressed man ; but he took extraordinary pains to look well before he started for Massam, after receiving Sir George and Lady Hamilton's letters. He snuled to himself as he stood ar- ranging his brown whiskers and reddish- brown moustache before the glass. It tickled his sense of humour to think of the encounter that was coming. The vain old man (as he mentally designated Mr. Trevor), wounded in his tenderest feel- ings, was no match, he thought, for him. 182 BENEATH THE WAVE. Mr. Hannaway was a vain man also, but he knew the world too well to show this openly. He was generally called "a good fellow," and deserved in many things this appellation. That is, he was generous, courteous, and agreeable. But he loved Mr. Hannaway well. His easy conscience was satisfied with his own life, and he meddled very little, and cared less, for the lives of others. He was so prosperous and self-satisfied, indeed, that he could afford to speak good-naturedly generally of his neighbours. So he ordered his carriage and drove to Massam. The familv were at dessert, the butler told him when he anived there ; but without further ceremony he desired that functionary to announce him. Sir George rose courteously to receive him when he was ushered into the small dining-room, and Isabel extended her slen- der hand in welcome. But Mr. Trevor only pompously bowed his white head. He felt in such a rage that he could BENEATH THE WAVE. 183 have been civil to no one ; and somehow he felt that Mr. Hannaway was mixed up with his anonymous letter. ''Have you dined, Hannaway?" asked Sir George. "Thanks, I have," he replied. "I was just sitting down to dinner when your note anived," and Mr. Hannaway smiled. Sir George smiled also. The butler had now left the room, and Isabel, her hus- band, her father, and Mr. Hannaway only were present. So Sir George began : " I wrote to you about this anonymous letter that Mr. Trevor has received," he said, addressing Hannaway. " Yes, indeed ! " said Mr. Trevor, putting on his double gold eye-glasses with a jerk. "Yes," said Mr. Hannaway inquiringly, as if he wished to hear further. "Your name is mentioned in it, it seems," continued Sir George. " You ar6 stated to have told the writer that you had just lent Mr. Featherstone five hun- dred pounds/* 184 BENEATH THE WAYS. "Yes," again said Mr. Hannaway, mth much cahnness. " Is this true, sir ? " asked Mr. Trevor, unable to control himself fuiiiher. "'Have you lent Mr. Featherstone five hundred pounds, and if you have, who have you told that you have done so?" "Do you think that I should be justi- fied in answering either of these questions, Mr. Trevor?" said Mr. Hannaway. " Do I think so ? " said Mr. Trevor, in a loud voice. "Yes, I do tlunk so. I have received a disgraceful letter, a shame- fill letter, and your name is mentioned in it as having given the miscreant who wrote it certain information. Did you, I ask, give that information ? And to whom ? " Mr. Trevor asked these two last questions in his most magisterial manner. But the severe dignity that imposed on the country folk round Sanda had no effect on Mr. Hannaway. He did not smile, but he looked as if he would have liked to do so. BENEATH THE WAVE. 185 "You have never been a professional man, Mr. Trevor," he said, after a moment's pause, " therefore perhaps you do not know the rule of honour among us poor men who have to make our bread out of people's secrets. For a lawyer or a doctor to tell what he knows would be most inexcusable. If I had lent Mr. Featherstone money, I should be most unlikely to tell it." " But you did tell it ! " said Mr. Trevor, .very indignantly. " To whom ? " asked Mr. Hannaway, with provoking calmness. "Sir," shouted Mr. Trevor rising from his seat, " I am not accustomed to be spoken to in this manner. Unless you tell me, I shall conclude you have some motive for shielding the cowardly mis- creant who has tried to stab Mr. Feather- stone in the back. Nay, I shall think that you yourself "Hush, Mr. Trevor 1" said Sir George, interrupting the angry old man. " I cannot sit here and allow such words as 186 BENEATH THE WAVE. those to be applied to Mr. Hannaway at my table. I have known him for years, and have ever found him a stricdy honour: able man." A faint colour passed over Mr. Hanna- way's clear skin, and a faint twinge of conscience through his heart at these words of Sir George. He, however, made no acknowledgment but a slight bow. " Really, papa," said Isabel the next minute, rising from her place at the table also, '* I'm fairly tired of the subject. Most probably Mr. Featherstone, in some 'jovial hour,' as I believe he calls a known weakness of his, which we might designate by a harder name, has himself told that Mr. Hannaway has been kind enough to lend him this money — ^at least, if Mr. Hannaway has ? " she added, looking smilingly at the lawyer. Mr. Hannaway smiled in reply. He thought this was clever of Isabel, so he returned her lead. " I am sorry to offend you, Mr. Trevor,' BENEATH THE WAVE. 187 he said, speaking respectfully but firmly; *'but I am not at liberty to repeat the details of any business transactions which have passed between myself and Mr. Featherstone. If Mr. Featherstone chooses to make confidants of his boon companions, that is no affair of mine." "And you mean to tell me, sir " continued Mr. Trevor, glaring at Mr. Hannaway. " I mean to tell nothing," said Mr. Han-: naway, with great gravity. " Sir George here would indeed have a right to mistrust his confidential lawyer if I were to do so." It was now Sir George's turn to colour, which he did all over his usually pale face. Then he at once sharply stopped the conversation. "Mr. Trevor," he said, addressing his father-in-law, " Isabel has probably given you the true explanation of this loan of five hundred pounds. Mr. Featherstone is an involved man, as I suppose you know, and he is also a very convivial one. He has 188 BENEATH THE WAVE. boasted, most likely, of this money, which Mr. Hamiaway is fairly justified in declining to give any information about. I would advise you to question Mr. Featherstone himself, and in the meantime we may as well talk on some pleasanter subject.'* So Mr. Trevor was forced to be silent, and sat down again, and tried to speak with calmness about other things. He hated this cool easy lawyer, who sat there smiling just as if nothing disagreeable had passed. Nothing disagreeable had passed to Mr. Hannaway's ideas, for it would have taken many Mr. Trevors to disturb Mr. Hanna- way's serenity. When he rejoined Isabel in her drawing- room, he said a few words to her very quietly. " What a clever Uttle lawyer you would have made. Lady Hamilton ! '' he said and he smiled. " I thank you," repUed Isabel. ^' Always be my friend," she added, and for a moment «he put out her hand, which the lawyer took. BENEATH THE WAVE. 189 "I will," he answered fervently, and looked straight into her face. Nothing more passed between them. Sir George came up and talked to Hannaway; talked about leases and politics, and Mr. Trevor sat pretending to read the Times in an easy chair, but in reahty he was nursing his wrath. He would be at the bottom of this business yet, he determined. This cool- headed, ilpud^t la^er nught xefuse U. answer his questions, but he would force Mr. Featherstone to do so. He would go over to Featherstone the first thing in the morning, and he would learn the truth at any rate about this money. Poor Mr. Trevor! He retired to bed early, thinking that he would hear every- thing from Mr. Featherstone in the morning. Mr. Hannaway did not retire to bed early, and before he did so, he wrote a little note to graceless Antony, which was as follows : — " Dear Featherstone, — ^Your proposed son-in-law, Mr. Trevor, has received an 190 BENEATH THE WAVE. anonymous letter from some person or persons ill-disposed to you and your family, and in it a certain monetary transaction that has lately passed between us is related. I fear that in some of your merry hours you must have told this, for the old gentle- man attacked me this evening with great fury on the subject. Of course I told him nothing, and I advise you to be equally reticent. Say ^some enemy has done this.' ^' Yours faithfully, ''W. P. Hannaway." *'P.S. — You may (if I am any judge of character) expect a storm to-morrow, in the early morning." This note was lying on Mr. Featherstone's breakfast table when he came down to break- fast the next morning, so that by the time Mr. Trevor arrived at Featherstone, both Antony and his daughters were fully pre- pared to receive him. Antony had a touch of humour in his composition, and he got himself up as the BENEATH THE WAVE. 191 respectable paterfamilias^ to the best of his ability, for the occasion. He had been an adept at making fishing flies in his youth, and he brought out the old paraphernalia, and laid some half-made flies, that had been begun twenty years ago, on a newspaper before him. Alas ! the shaking hands could not now have finished them so as to gull the most unwary trout that ever meandered in a stream. But the whole thing had a piscatorial and rural appearance, and Antony felt that they added to the virtuous effect of the tableau. Then Patty brought her work, and sat down by her father ; but Lu was restless, and could not settle in the fEimily scene. There was, in truth, an innate honesty about this girl that made her hate deceptions of all sorts, and though she was going to marry an old man for his money, she meant to be a good wife to him, and act honestly all her days. In his heart Antony fully believed that he had been the delinquent about repeating the story of the five hundred pounds. So 192 BENEATH THE WAVE. many things had he told, and totally forgot- ten that he had done so in the morning, that why not this ? He sat there, with his fishing flies before him, trying to remember who it was likely he had made a confidant of He had been very "jolly,'* as he called it, on the strength of this very five hundred pounds, and his daughter's engagement combined, and his evening conversations were, therefore, mostly a blank to him. "But it was a confounded ill-natured thing, whpever wrote to old Trevor about it," he decided. That Mr. Hannaway had something to do with it he never for a moment suspected. Presently a carriage was heard approach- ing the house, and then the door bell rang, and a few minutes later Mr. Trevor was ushered in on the family scene. " Mr. Trevor ! " exclaimed Antony, as the squire was announced, jumping up, and extending his hand, as if in great surprise. "You did not tell us you were coming,'^ BENEATH THE WAVE. 193 Lu faltered out, as she also shook hands with her betrothed, "I have come on a most painftd busi- ness," said the squire, hesitatingly. " A painful business ! My dear sir, what- •ever is the matter ?" said Antony. " I have received a letter," explained Mr. Trevor, rather nervously, " a shameful letter — anonymous, of course — abusing you and your family ; and as a voucher of the writer's good faith, it is aflfirmed that you — it's a most unpleasant thing to say, Mr. Featherstone, particularly before ladies." And Mr. Trevor bowed to the girls. "Nay, my dear sir, out with it!" said Antony, with an assumption of good-natured eaae. " Hard words don't break bones, you know." " Well, then," continued Mr. Trevor, " as a voucher of good faith, the writer affirms that on sure information he knows that you asked Mr. Hannaway, the lawyer here, to lend you a thousand pounds since your VOL. II. o 194 BENEATH THE WAVE. daughter's engagement, and that he did lend you five hundred ! " " No such good luck," said Antony, shaking his head and smiling. '^ Hanna- way is a rich fellow, and a good fellow, and I heartily wish he would take it into his head to be as generous as your anony- mous correspondent makes out." "Then am I to understand," hesitated Mr. Trevor. "That I've not got it," answered Antony, with a laugh. " In truth, my dear sir," he continued, "though this is a fine property," (and he looked out of the window at his mortgaged acres as he spoke), "what with one expense and another, I couldn't lay my hand on five hundred pounds in hard cash at this moment. No, indeed, I couldn't," wentj on Antony ; and he shook his head thoughtfully, as if he were considering where he could get it. The squire hummed and hawed. A father-in-law without five hundred pounds in hard cash was not exactly a pleasant BENEATH THE WAVE. 195 prospect; but still Mr. Featherstone was evidently such an honest open fellow, thought the squire. Reckless, perhaps, but honest. Yes, that was a great thing, de- cided Mr. Trevor; and so his brow cleared. "Then I suppose," he said, "all the other information that the letter contains is equally false as this story about the five hundred pounds?" " I dare say, I dare say," answered Antony jauntily. " It's as easy to tell a dozen Ues as one, you know." "Perhaps you had better read it," said Mr. Trevor, and he put the letter into Antony's hand, who read it through with an unabashed countenance (though he knew that a great deal of what was in it was true), but with many exclamations of wonder and contempt. " I could not have believed it," he said^ after he had finished its perusal. "Unless my own eyes had seen it, I could not have believed that anyone could have in- vented such a tissue of falsehoods." 196 BENEATH THJL WAYS. Then La put oat her hand. ''Let me read it, papa," she said, and as she did so tears rose in her eyes. " It is a crael letter," she said, indig- nantly. " Patty and I don't deserve it. We may have had to do things that rich girls do not do, but we have never — I don t care who says it or who be- lieves it — ^we have never done anything to be ashamed of." And this was strictly true. " My deal" girl ! " said Mr. Trevor, advancing to her and taking her hand, " do you think I would believe anything against you ? The reason that I have made this inquiry is that I am so indignant that anyone should dare attack your good name. But do not think that an anony- mous scribbler could irifluence me. I chose you to be my future wife from my own judgment of your amiable and attractive character, and that judgment I can rely upon." " You are very good," said Lu, and BENEATH THE WAVE. 197 she put her hand softly into the old man's. She felt grateful to him for trust- mg her ; and gratitude, after all, is not a bad foundation for the beginning of love. CHAPTER XI. RANK AND FILE. While great doings went on at Massam, and all the people in the neighbourhood who considered themselves in a position to do so, crowded round Isabel to do her homage, Hilda Marston was fighting her way amid the vast army of the toilers of the earth. She was getting on pretty well. Besides her two grown-up pupils at Florentia Villa, she had got one or two young children in the same neigh- bourhood, and one or two humbler pupils in the immediate vicinity of where she lived. So when Christmas dawned — Christmas, which came to Isabel in her splendid BENEATH THE WAVE. 199 home, surrounded by everything that wealth could procure, it came also not quite unhappily to her late companion. For one thing it brought little Ned. This new mouth to feed — ^this new care seemed to brighten Hilda's life. The boy had never- been in London before, and it was therefore a region of dehght to him. Hilda took him to the bazaars, and bought what she could for him out of her slender means, and tried a'l she eould to make his young life pleasant to him. The shop windows, too, were an unending source of delight to him. The pantomimes Hilda could not afford, though Ned frequently expatiated on his desire to behold one. ** We must wait till the ship comes in," Hilda used to say. " Oh, bother the ship," Ned would answer, with the thoughtless selfishness of a boy. *' Don't you think you could treat us just to one, Hil ? " But Hilda was forced to decline. One 200 BENEATH THE WAYS. treat meant many shillings, shillings too rare and precious to be thus disposed of; and so Master Ned had to content himsdf with reading the bills of the various theatres^ and speculating to Hilda on which entertainment would probably ba the best. But a great pleasure was in store for them both. Miss May arrived one morning during the Christmas hoHdays, and took them back to Brixton with her to spend a few days. Octavia Lodge proved a sort of earthly paradise to Master Ned. It happened to be a snow- storm while he was there, and the boy had the run of the grounds, and could make snow men and snow balls to hi& heart's content. But this was not all. A day came *when Miss May told him that she wa& going to take his sister and himself that evening to the pantomime in Drury Lane. Ned could not contain his joy. He was- ready dressed in his outer-coat and warm BENEATH THE WAVE. 201 scarf and mittens long before the time to starts and when they did start in the tramway-car that went down the road, no boy in the best appointed carriage in London went that night to the theatre with a happier heart. Humble people, after all, have their pleasures as well as great ones. Miss May was pleased to see the httle lad's pleasure, and Hilda also enjoyed the prospect before them, and looked well and handsome — so handsome tiiat she attracted the attention of a young gentle- man, of very meagre and impleasant appearance, who edged up nearer to the party, and finally addressed Miss May, who had been sitting with her head determinedly turned to the window, since she had recognized him. " I say, ain't you Miss May, who keeps tiie school ? " at last asked the young gentleman, laying one of his ugly hands upon Miss May's arm, who turned sharply round on being thus addressed. It 202 BENEATH THE WAYS. "Yes, I am Miss May, she answered. And how are you, Mr. Joseph Moxam?" Oh, pretty well," replied Mr. Joe. "I say," he added, putting his long nose and protruding teeth close to the old school- mistress's face, "is that one of your pupils?" and he indicated Hilda by a slight movement of his thumb. " No," answered Miss May, briefly. " Pretty girl, uncommon pretty girl ! " continued Mr. Joe, eyeing Hilda approv- ingly. " I say, old lady, introduce me, won't you ? " " Don't see any occasion, Mr. Joe," re- plied Miss May. " Oh, yes ; do now," said Mr. Joe, and to her great annoyance. Miss May was thus forced to do so. "Miss Marston," she said, coldly, "Mr. Moxam." " Miss Marston ! " repeated Mr. Joe ; " why, you are not the girl who teaches music, are you ? " " Yes, I am," said Hilda, rather amused. BENEATH THE WAVE. 203 ** By Jove ! '' exclaimed Mr. Joe, as if in the uttermost astonishment, and then he collapsed, sitting gazing at Hilda contem- platively during the rest of the journey. " Where are you going ? " he said, at last, to the party generally. "To the pantomime," replied little Ned, grandly, before the ladies could speak. " Which one ? " asked Mr. Joe. '* To Drury Lane," again answered Ned. "They say it's the best." " I wouldn't mind going with you," said Mr. Joe, looking at Miss May. "Thank you," said Miss May, curtly; " but we don't want any gentlemen. " I'm an old woman, and can take care of Miss Marston — and mean to," she added. So she would have nothing to say to Mr. Joe, who, however, grew profuse in his offers, pressing the ladies to have supper with him; but Miss May was firm. " Thank you, no," she said. " Good even- ing, Mr. Joe." And Mr. Joe was obliged to leave them, but this accidental encounter 204 BENEATH THE WAVE. afterwards brought some very disagreeable consequences to Hilda. But she forgot all about Mr. Joe Moxam when she got into the theatre. As for little Ned, his usual loquacious tongue grew silent with astonishment and awe. Once, how- ever, he gave vent to his feelings. This was during one of the transformation scenes, when the fairies seemed to his dazzled eyes most beautiful to behold. " I say, Hil," he said, pulling at his sister s dress, " are these real women, now ? They can't be the common sort, like you, Miss May?" Hilda laughed merrily at the question. " My dear," she said, " I Ve no doubt if I were dressed up and painted that I would look just as well." " Don't believe it," replied Ned, seriously, shaking his curly head. "You're not bad looking, but oh, you could never look like them." They had a nice little hot supper when they got home, and the day remained im- BENEATH THE WAVE. 205 printed for some time in Ned's memory as one of the red letter days of his exist- ence. He was never tired of telling about the treat to Hilda when they returned to their lodgings, and took a more intense interest in theatrical affairs than ever. What distressed Hilda very much was being obliged so constantly to leave him. On these occasions Master Ned naturally resented being shut up in two small rooms, and therefore insisted upon roaming about the streets at his pleasure. Hilda was always afraid that he would get into some mischief or other, and, we may be sure, gave him many charges each day before she set out on her ordinary duties. The next time that she went to Florentia Villa after meeting Mr. Joe Moxam in the tramway car, that young gentleman walked into the drawing-room, where she was giving his sisters their lesson. " Well, Joe," said Ellen Moxam, lookii^ round as he entered, ** are you going to have a lesson?" 206 BENEATH THE WAVE. " All right," replied Mr. Joe, and without taking any notice of Hilda he went up to the piano, and joined in the duet they were singing in one of the most discordant voices imaginable. "Put me right when I'm out," he said to Hilda; but to put Mr. Joe right was beyond Hilda's capabilities. However, he seemed quite satisfied with his own performances, though his elder half-sister Miss Moxam once or twice (after her usual fashion) said something unpleasant to him. But Mr. Joe, though it was not usual to him, kept his temper. He was facetious indeed after his manner, and grinned out his prominent teeth, and made jokes, and demeaned himself in what he believed to be a highly attrac- tive way. When the lesson was over he bowed to Hilda, and left the room be- fore she did, and Hilda felt certainly more comfortable after he was gone. She walked down to the railway station, as she intended travelling to Victoria BENEATH THE WAVE. 207 • station by train, and having taken a second-class ticket, stood waiting on the platform. Great, then, was her annoyance at seeing the mean little form of Mr. Joe Moxam emerge out of the darkness; and the next moment he had walked up to her side. "Well, you see," he said, with his odiously familiar air, " I have not lost sight of you ! Couldn't say much, you know, before those old sisters of mine, or they would have made a fine row ; but I wanted to have a little talk to you, for all that." Hilda felt so annoyed that she did not know what to say. "Couldn't beUeve at first that a good- looking girl like you was a music teacher," continued Mr. Joe. "You ain't the style somehow. Drab coloured skins and an- cient, that lot, mostly. But here's the train. I'm going to see you home, if you will allow me ? " "Oh! please don't," said Hilda; but 208 BENEATH THE WATS. Mr. Joe was peisist^it. He sat dose to Hilda in the railway carriage^ and paid her coarse compUments, and altogether made her Tery Tmeomforiable. Lackilj, there was a respectable-lookmg man in the carriage, or Hilda would have been yet more annoyed. As it was, she felt greatly relieved when they reached Vic- toria Station ; but she found even then that Mr. Joe was not to be shaken oK, " 111 see you home. Don t be prudish. What nonsense r he said, when Hildas politely, but coldly, bade him good evening. "Thank you, but I would rather you would not," said Hilda. " You are too pretty a girl to walk about alone,** said Mr. Joe, with one of his grins ; and so he followed Hilda^ or rather walked by Hilda's side along the platform in front of Victoria station. But in the crowd, suddenly Hilda came face to face with Philip Hayward. She knew him at once. He looked paler and thinner, but that was all. BENEATH THE WAVE. 209 '• Mr. Hay ward ! " she said, stopping, and she held out her hand. Then Hayward looked down at the flushed, rather startled face before him, and he recognized Hilda. '* Miss Marston ! " he said, kindly ; "I never expected to see you here." "No," answered Hilda. "But," she added, timidly and quickly, " will you turn with me ? I have something to tell you —about little Ned." "Of course I will," said Hayward, and he turned as he spoke. "Oh!" said Mr. Joe insolently to Hilda, " I was in the way, was I ? An- other young man, eh ? Oh ! " he exclaimed the next instant, looking up and remem- bering Hayward, "its you, is it? Well, good evening to you both," he added, " I wont spoil sport," And with a nod to Hilda he turned away. " What does that fellow mean ?" asked Hayward, quickly. " Do you know him ?" "I teach his sisters music, and he came VOL. II. P 210 BENEATH THE WAVE. into the room to-day," answered Hilda^ "and he annoyed me very much in the train." " Annoyed you ! " repeated Hayward sharply. •* He has not been rude to you, I hope?" "Only by forcing his company upon me/' replied Hilda. " But do not let us talk of him any more. Do you know that I am living near here now, and who do you think is living with me ? " "I cannot guess," said Hayward. "Your old pupil, little Ned," said Hilda, smiling. "Won't he be delighted to see you ! He often speaks about you." " And he has left Mr. Irvine ?" asked Hayward. " Yes—" and Hilda blushed. " You know — I offended Mr. Trevor somehow, and — he declined any longer to pay for poor little Ned's education, and as I could not afford to keep him at Sanda, I try to teach him myself" " I must come and give him a lesson in Latin sometimes," said Hayward, smiling. BENEATH THE WAVE. 211 " Will you ? I shall be so glad if you will." And Hilda blushed and looked very pleased as she spoke. " Yes, indeed I will," answered Hayward kindly ; and then, when they reached Hilda s modest home, he accepted her invitation to go in. The street that she lodged in was a quiet little street, and the people of the house were humble but respectable. The husband was coachman to a nobleman in one of the adjoining squares, and the wife and landlady had been a cook. They had one son, who was a groom in the same stables, and they kept the dining room of the house for themselves, and let the neat little drawing- room and bedroom above. This Hilda had taken, and she had no particular reason to repent having done so. Mrs. Bargate, the landlady, was a kind woman, with a warm heart and a warm temper. Mr. Bargate, the coachman, was ruled by Mrs. Bargate in all things, and smoked his pipe through all domestic storms; and the household. 212 BENEATH THE WAVE, therefore, might be fairly considered a very quiet one. Mrs. Bargate opened the house door for Hilda and Hayward, and she smiled as she did so. "Well, Miss Marston," she said, "it's well you're back. Master Ned has been making a fine row with the cat next door." " Naughty boy !" said HSlda, and she ran upstairs ; and as she opened the drawing- room door, a great grey cat, with every hair on its tail erected, sprang past her, and fled down stairs, followed by Master Ned, all excitement at the chase. But Hayward caught him by the arm after he had escaped past Hilda. "Well, Master Ned," he said, "this is fine play. Whatever have you been doing to the cat ?" " Teaching her to walk in walnut shells," answered Ned; and then, recognizing Hay- ward, he exclaimed : " Oh ! Mr. Hayward, is it you T " Yes, it's me," said Hayward, still holding BENEATH THE WAVE. 213 the boy's arm. " Come, old fellow, let the cat alone." " She's only one on," confided Master Ned, wistfully, alluding to the walnut shells. "If Hil had only came in a minute or two later, she would have had four." Well, never mind," said Hayward, come up now ;" and so, holding Ned by the arm, he followed Hilda into her sitting- room. It was a neat little place. A tasteful woman's hand had evidently arranged the furniture, and added some small decorations to the original stiff neatness of its appear- ance. " You will stay and have some tea with us ?" said Hilda, turning to Hayward, who smiled, sat down, and drew Master Ned on his knee. Master Ned became very jubilant over his old master's re-appearance. "So you're living in London, too?" he said. " That's jolly ! You'll take me out to see things sometimes, won't you ? Girls 214 BENEATH THE WAYl. ^re all very well, you know, but Hil's frightened by crowds and that lot, and so shell scarcely go anywhere. But well go together, won't we T While Ned was making these arrange- ments for his future amusement, "Hil" had gone out of the room to seek her landlady, the ex-cook, and make arrange- ments for Hayward's refreshment. Mrs. Bargate was quite agreeable. She cooked a dish of chops to perfection, and some fish, and in half an hour the little party of young people in the drawing-room were sitting enjoying their humble re- past. Hilda had a bright fresh colour in her face and a glad light in her eyes. She was so pleased to see Hayward, to see some one she had known before, and in whom she had always felt a strong in- terest. " Of course you were at Lady Hamilton's wedding ? " said Hayward quietly, as the meal went on ; but Hilda noticed the BENEATH THE WAVE. 215 effort with which he said, these simple words. "Yes," answered Hilda, "I was at the breakfast, though not at the church. It was very quiet — only the two Miss Feather- stones were there — and you've heard the news about Mr. Trevor, I suppose ? " "That he has married Miss Feather- stone ? " answered Hayward. " Yes, I have heard. I have heard lately once or twice from Sir George Hamilton, and he told me about it." After his mother's death, Hayward had written to Sir George Hamilton. He had written courteously and gratefully, returning at the same time by far the larger portion of the money that Sir George had advanced to him during his mother's illness. In this first letter Hayward had made no allusion to Sir George's marriage. He merely told him the fact of his mother's death, and grate- fully declined all further assistance. "Mr. Newcome will take me back, I believe," 216 BENEATH THE WATE. he added, "and the salary he ^ves me will satisfy my modest wants." Sir George was annoyed at this letter. He showed it to Isabel, expressing himself strongly on the subject. " If he is so very independent, why not let him alone ? " said Isabel, carelessly, who had almost forgotten Hayward by this time in the new pleasures and excite- ment of her life. "You forget what I owe him," said Sir George, gravely. "But if he won't take anything," an- swered Isabel, "you are not to blame." "He is sensitive, proud, and refined," said Sir George, "and these qualities only make me respect him more. That fooUsh fancy he took for you, Isabel" Isabel shrugged her fine shoulders. "But it was so, love," said Sir George, " and it hurts his pride, therefore, to accept anything from me. But I shall not allow this feeling to come between us ; I mean always to be his friend." BENEATH THE WAVE. 217 So Sir George had written several times to Hayward since his mother's death. But Hayward had gratefully decKned all Sir George's offers, though he had not quite declined his friendship. He had returned to his old employer, Mr. Newcome, and was agreeably surprised when, shortly after he had done so, Mr. Newcome voluntarily proposed to double his salary. This increase did not come out of Mr. Newcome's purse. Sir George, in fact, finding that Hayward declined help from him, determined in- directly to assist him. A correspondence, therefore, had taken place between Sir George and Mr. Newcome, and the im- mediate consequence of this was that Hayward's salary was doubled. The printer regarded Hayward often now, through his small shrewd eyes, with positive astonishment. That a man would refuse such offers was to Mr. Newcome almost incomprehensible. Yet he knew it was so. Sir George made no secret to the printer of his wish to help Hayward, 218 BENEATH THE WAVE. and his reasons for doing so. But Mr. Newcome kept Sir George's secret. It suited him to do so. He got a good man for a low salary (the part that came out of his pocket), and he got credit for being a generous man with Hayward, which he was not. The first thing that Hayward did with the larger means at his command was to return all the money he owed to Sir George. Sir George thus received his own money back, as it were, but he did not think less of the young man for his scrupulous honesty. Then Hayward sent back the parson's ten pounds. The Rev. Matthew's kind eyes grew moist as he read his old tutor's letter, and learned that he was alone in the world. He immediately wrote pressing Hayward most cordially to pay a long visit to Sanda ; but Hayward could not leave his work, and to have seen Sanda again would only have recalled most painful memories. Thus, when Hayward met Hilda Marston BENEATH THE WAVE. 219 in London, he was once more the *^ reader " in Messrs. Salkeld and Newcome's establish- ment. He told Hilda this, and then gradu- ally the conversation drifted to Hayward's mother. Ned perched himself on his old tutor's knee, and they sat round the fire and talked. Hilda's sweet womanly sym- pathy and her gentle questions about Mrs. Hayward's illness, touched Hay ward; and he found himself telling Hilda of his mother s death, of Mr. Jervis's kindness to her, and how, when she had felt her end approaching, she had sent for the curate and asked him, with her last breath, to be a brother to her son. " And he is a brother," said Hayward, his earnest face lighting up when he spoke of his friend. * ^ Without him I could not have borne her loss ; he has been everything to me, and he is — but why talk of him? — you will think I am an enthusiast if I were to tell you my real opinion of Horace Jervis." " What is he Hke ?" asked Hilda, with interest. 220 BENEATH THE WAVE. '* He has a good face, made absolutely beautiful by its expression," answered Hay- ward. " Somehow you think of heaven when you look in Jervis's face." " Oh ! Mr. Hayward !" "And his life," continued Hayward, "is the most utterly self-denying one that it is possible to conceive. He has a good fortune, but how does he spend it ? Literally in going out into the highways and byways, and helping the poor. He seeks not those who sit in the high places of the world, but those who are hungry, sick, and in prison." "A good and faithful servant," said Hilda, thoughtfully. " It is impossible to live with him, I think," said Hayward in a low tone, "and not to believe." A great change, indeed, had come over Hayward's heart since his intimacy with Horace Jervis. After Mrs. Hayward's death Philip had returned to town with the curate, and had spent a week or two with him, and BENEATH THE WAVE. 221 had thus seen much of his daily Ufa. That practice is better than precept is an old adage^ and a sort of calm seemed to come over Hayward's restless dissatisfied heart when he found himself constantly thrown with a man who sought not happiness or gain for himself, but simply the good of others. He had an aun in life, at least, Philip Hayward perceived ; an aim which he followed with sure serenity. He was not tossed backwards and forwards by the waves and tides of circumstances around him. As lie stood on the shore of Time, his eyes were fixed on the great ocean of Eternity. Unconsciously his perfect faith influenced Hayward. He who had cried out in his despair, and whose soul had been crushed by the idol he had set up, now began to reahze that there were many other things to Uve for than a selfish and absorbing passion. Horace Jervis always spoke of things here as for a little while. He prized not, there- fore, the treasure that the ** moth and rust doth corrupt." Between the starlight and •^•^•^ JESZJ^r^ ^'^TO TTI^yH. lie amnnj^hi: "here: ttus oo ;jri( tauuL htiT^v^^t^i ihifr maa^i -Mm! iod, hmosI cf t^Lose unimii aim. OIL BEav-:vacri : oil BEsEvwaiii. w6i> was ao eaznesc 'mpaaffrnngiL :inii ^aic&iiaQigc&L Heie was i Ti;m oe: <:!aiilii aontTorL ck imuL be could lovi^ Tlie Ttean ^ifms^ mt^ snaH .-unligtinng ^le peniTT xiTTesf ami vTBrfirii^. xiaa^ with a jocm^ moEL^ jQcrrngly bmaged jo^meiit he ii£bd tie^iaed ami hiK&ed. w&ae: iznGesiT afasent in J«vT5. ** I fisel asfcamfid of ntv^elf besade hiiiL'' Hayward tijld Hiliia: iiiii tihe girl smfled, veil pleased to hear h^ genenxis praise of Ide friend- **Woald voa Eke to know him, Xedf asked Havward of hk ex-popil, who was stin sitting perched npon his knee. Upon this question being asked, little Ned smiled and wriggled. He had, in £su^ not been paying much attention to the conversation, but had been vaguely contem- plating the possibility of Hayward taking BENEATH THE WAVE. 22*3 him some evening to see the representation of the " Forty Thieves," of which he had seen engaging pictures (the " forty thieves " being enclosed in brown jars) pasted on the city walls. Before Hilda and Hay ward parted that night, they agreed that each alternate even- ing Hayward was to call and give little Ned a lesson in Latin. " And you must tell me," said Hayward, kindly shaking Hilda's hand in farewell before he left, "if ever my interesting connexion, Mr. Jos. Moxam, annoys you with his company again." And Hayward smiled. Hilda smiled also as she returned Hay- ward's hand-shake. This evening had been very bright to her. It seemed to the poor girl that in all that great city she had now one person at least whom she could call a friend. CHAPTER XII. AN UNEXPECTED BLOW. The next few weeks were very jolly ones for little Ned. Hayward not only taught him Latin (which Ned felt he could have dispensed with), but he also took him to nearly every sight in town suitable for his years. The Zoological Gardens and the pantomimes were, however, his greatest delight. Hilda sometimes went with them to the gardens, and while Ned was gazing with entranced delight at the animals. Hay- ward and Hilda would walk together. They soon grew very intimate with each other. They were not unlike in mind, but Hilda was gentler and not so enthusiastic as Hay- ward. It seemed almost as if she were the BENEATH THE WAVE. 225 older of the two during their conversations. Yet this was not so ; her training in the school of adversity, perhaps, had been longer, or at least she had learnt to bear herself more meekly and wisely along life's trouble- some way. But they were great friends — lovers Hay- ward never contemplated that they should be; for his means were utterly inadequate to maintain a wife, and, besides, it seemed to him that his heart was dead and cold. He had exhausted all its emotions, he thought, in the deep and ardent love that he had lavished on Isabel Trevor. He knew now that love had been an unworthy one. He had given it unworthily, unthink- ingly, for the sake of the beautiful face and winning tongue; and he had reaped the bitter fruits. But he had loved her too well soon to forget the exquisite pleasure and the cruel misery she had caused him. Hilda saw quite well that Hayward was not in love with her. She had seen him in VOL. II. Q 226 BENEATH THE WAVE. love with Isabel; and she knew that the even kindness of his manner to herself sprang from a very different feeling to the jealous engrossing one of love. Was this knowledge pain to Hilda ? If so, she made no sign. She was not a girl to let a man see that she cared for him more than he cared for her, or in any way to seek to gain his affection. She accepted his friendship, and an incident which presently occurred made her feel that she had a right to be grateful to him, and to show her gratitude. This happened through the unwelcome agency of Mr. Joe Moxam. This young gentleman had continued to annoy Hilda, and during her visits to Florentia Villa frequently came into the room while his sisters' singing lessons were going on, and would glance knowingly with his odious little green bloodshot eyes at Hilda when- ever he had an opportunity of doing so unobserved. Then twice he had met her when she was returning home, and had insisted on escorting her to the station. BENEATH THE WAVE. 227 But a crowning injury was yet to come, and one which Hilda felt in her unpro- tected position that she was compelled to resent. One evening she received a letter by thei post from him, whose purport at first she really could not understand. It commenced as follows : — " My dear girl, don't go humbugging on any longer, but let a fellow who likes you see you sometimes, though for reasons we both know, our meetings must be for the present under the rose '* And so on. Hilda's face turned literally scarlet as she read the impertinent words ; and when Hayward called in the evening to give little Ned his Latin lesson, she placed the vile letter in his hands. " You said you would speak to this person if he insulted me," she said. " What do you think of this ? " 228 BENEATH THE WAVE. Hayward read the letter through with an angry frown. Then he put it in his pocket. " Let me answer it," he said. " Insolent scoundrel ! " "You — ^might tell him at least not to annoy me any more/' continued Hild^ beginning to be afraid of getting Hayward into some trouble. " Surely if he knew who I am — ^if he knew I was bom a lady " — and Hilda blushed — "he would let me alone." "Whether you were born a lady or not he has no right to molest you," answered Hayward. " I'll tell him to-morrow that if he ever speaks to you again I'll horse- whip him." And Hayward carried his intentions into eflfect. He went down on the 'following morning to his uncle's place of business in the City, and found there (after sending up his card) his uncle and Mr. Joe Moxam in their private office. He spoke civilly to his uncle, who had BENEATH THE WAVE. 229 heard of his connection with Sir George Hamilton from his brother-in-law, New- come, and was, therefore, inclined to treat him with more respect than usual. Then he turned to Mr. Joe. " Can I have a few words with you ? " he said, and Joe looked rather uncomfort- able, and fidgeted on his high office stool. " With me ! " he said. ^* What can you want with me ? " " Just to say a few words," answered Hayward; and so after winking at his father, Joe Moxam descended from his stool, and followed Hayward into the street. *^Mr. Moxam," said Hayward, as soon as they got there, drawing out from his pocket the letter Mr. Joe had addressed to Hilda, " you sent this to a young lady I've known for some time." "Who do you mean ? " asked Mr. Joe, sharply, his yellow skin turning suddenly red. "What business of yours is it, if I chose to write letters to any girl I like?" ^ 230 BENEATH THE WAVE. "It is if you write to this young lady," answered Hayward. " Lady ! " sneered Mr. Joe. " A fine lady, who goes out to give lessons for a few shiUings ! " "Yes, Miss Marston is a lady," said Hayward; "and moreover, she is a lady whom I mean to protect from receiving such insulting letters as this." " You mean to protect, indeed !" retorted Mr. Joe. "You are a fine protector, I must say — a fellow who only the other day came begging to the governor to "get you something to do to keep you from starving." Hayward could scarcely restrain himself, but he did. " I came to give you warning to-day," he said, coolly enough, after a moment's consideration; "but if you write again to Miss Marston, or address her, or annoy her in any way, I'll horsewhip you." Mr. Joe turned almost livid with rage. " You !" he screamed, " you, you beggar ! You horsewhip me ! See if you dare." BENEATH THE WAVE. 231 "I will dare if you don't leave Miss Marston alone," answered Hayward ; and then, without another word, he turned and left Mr. Joe, who kept muttering ' impre- cations and vengeance for some time after on " Newcome's beggarly clerk," as he designated Hayward. Hayward did not tell Hilda of this en- counter, but his blood was up, and he deter- mined to keep his word, and really horse- whip Mr. Joe Moxam if he annoyed the poor girl any more. He knew the hour that she returned from Florentia Villa, and on the following evening, after arming him- self with a serviceable whip, he took the train to Brixton, and was loitering on the road leading to the station, when Hilda passed him, walking very quickly. A minute later Mr. Joe Moxam pounced out of a shop near the railway bridge, where he had been waiting for her, and imme- diately joined her. " My dear girl," began Mr. Joe, " don't wAlk so fast." 232 BENEATH THE WAVE. " Don't speak to me, please," said Hilda. " Nonsense !" said Mr. Joe, rudely laying his hand on her shrinking arm, and trying forcibly to detain her, while Hilda gave a half cry of fear, and endeavoured in vain to shake off his odious grasp. But the next minute, with a scream of terror, Mr. Joe had released her, for a stinging cut from Hayward's whip (who by this time had overtaken them) fell across his face, and he turned hastily round to see who was his assailant. " There !" cried Hayward, " take that, and that ! Remember, I gave you warning. Scoundrel, to persecute an unprotected girl !" But as the third lash fell, with a shriek of terror Mr. Joseph fled. He ran as fast as his feet could carry him straight into the station, and when a few minutes later, Hayward and Hilda entered it, he was clinging spasmodically to a policeman. " There !'' he screamed, when he saw Hayward and his whip appear, " that's him ! BENEATH THE WAVE. 233 I give him in charge. He's assaulted mel I give him in charge ; do you hear ? take him up !" For this assault Hay ward was summoned the next morning to the police court. Mr. Joe gave his evidence with the bitterest rancour, describing himself as walking inno- cently down the road, when he was sprang upon by the ruffian before them, who, without any provocation, struck him across the face. Perhaps Hayward's appearance was in his favour, but the magistrate asked him what he had to say to this. Hayward repUed by handing Mr. Joe Moxam's letter to Hilda to the magistrate for per- usal. ^' That was my provocation, sir," he said. ** That letter was addressed to an old friend of mine, the daughter of a clergyman, and a young lady of the highest respectability, by the person who accuses me of assaulting him. I called upon him after reading the letter, and by the lady's wish requested him 234 BENEATH THE WAVE. never to address her again, or I would horsewhip him— which I did." The magistrate read the letter, and then returned it to Hayward. "It is. a disgraceful letter," he said, " to address to any lady, or indeed any respect- able woman. Am I to understand that Mr. Moxam did annoy this lady again after you spoke to him on the subject?" Then Hayward related what had hap- pened, how Mr. Joe had sprang out of the shop, and rudely seized Hilda's arm; and on this testimony being corroborated by witnesses, the magistrate dismissed the case. " You assaulted the young lady," he said, addressing Mr. Joe, "and it was the duty of any man to protect her. I trust that it will be a warning to you in future not to annoy innocent women with your base advances. I do not attach any blame to Mr. Hayward." Nothing could exceed the indignation of the Moxam family at this occurrence. It BENEATH THE WAVE. 235 appeared in the police reports, and Mr. Joe was chaffed by his male and female acquaint- ances until his life was simply a burden to him. Old Mr. Moxam was furious. He went down to his brother-in-law Newcome's oflBlces, and demanded that he should at once dismiss Hayward, or repay him the two thousand pounds that he had advanced to the printer. But Newcome took high ground. He declined to dismiss Hayward ; said it served him (Joe) right; and as for the two thou- sand pounds, he would see about it. "You shall see about it, and hear about it, too, sir," roared Mr. Moxam, purple with rage, "if you keep this ungrateful scoundrel in your service ! What ! Didn't I educate him? Didn't I keep him from starving? — and to drag my name before the public like this!" "Maria utterly spoils that lad of yours, that's the truth," said Newcome. "Well, sir, spoilt or not spoilt, it's no concern of yours," answered the angry old 236 BENEATH THE WAVE. man, seizing his hat. "But that money I lent you is a concern of yours; and if it isn't paid up this day fortnight, I'll proceed against you, as certain as my name is Joseph Moxam, after this day's work." The money, however, was paid up before the stated time. Mr. Newcome, in fact, had an interview with Sir George Hamilton concerning it, and became his debtor for the amount instead of his brother-in-law, Moxam's. We may be sure he made a good case out to Sir George. He was not going to give up his brave clever young friend, for any man's bullying — but, then, this confounded two thousand pounds. He managed it all very cleverly. Sir George thought better of the printer, and so did Hayward, after the affair. As for Hilda, she was very grateful to Hayward, though she received an indignant note of dismissal at once from Florentia Villa in consequence. But she had got a few more pupils now, and kept on hoping that she would get BENEATH THE WAVE. 237 more still. Miss May, however, was, or pretended to be, angry about it. She told Hilda, sharply, that she had no business to have acted as she had done; and that she should have protected herself from Joe Moxam's advances. *'You forget you have your bread to make, I think," remarked the old lady, *'My dear, young women who have to go out into the world are required to have no fine feelings." But it drew Hilda and Hay ward closer to each other, and that was really very sweet to poor Hilda's heart. She had a right to be grateful to him now, she told herself; a right to trust and confide in him, when he had risked so much for her sake. Thus things went on. The winter passed away, and the pale cold spring came as if imwillingly. Then, just at the end of March, — poor little Ned, over whom Hilda had watched with such tender care, sick- ened and grew ill. How he caught it no one knew. Whether 238 BENEATH THE WAVE. the poison came in the white miste, or whether some infected child or person had touched him in the streets, they could only surmise ; but the boy was struck with fever, and with a sinking heart HUda heard the opinion of the doctor when she first caUed him in. " It is a bad case of scarlet fever," he said ; " the boy is very ill." *'He — ^is not in danger, I hope?" Al- tered Hilda. The doctor declined at this early period of the case to give any positive opinion. He recommended Hilda to get a nurse; he prescribed for poor little Ned, and then, after promising to call again in the morning, he went away. It was night when Hilda (after becoming alarmed at her little brother's increasing illness) had sent for him, and when in about an hour after the doctor s departure, Hayward called, the poor girl completely broke down. ^'Ohl what shall I do?" she sobbed. BENEATH THE WAVE. 239 "I shall have to give up my pupils. Oh! Ned, poor little Ned ! " Hayward did his best to comfort her. She must not distress herself about her pupils, he told her. As for money, that would be all right. She could pay him back when little Ned got well. And Hay- ward smiled and took her hand. These were kindly words. Poor Hilda had been breaking her heart as she sat by the little sufferer's bed during the last hour. If she gave up her pupils they would starve, she thought; and she must give up her pupils while the house was infected by a danger- ous disease. But Hayward tried to cheer her, and offered his services also to sit up during the night with the sick boy. This HUda would not hear of, but she felt grateful to him. She looked up into his face, with her soft grey eyes, ahnost piteously. ^^ Oh ! if he gets worse ! " she said. " We must hope he won't get worse," an- swered Hajrward, trying to speak hopefully. 240 BENEATH THE WAVE. But he also felt uneasy. The boy was m high fever, and wandered in his talk. As Hilda sat through the dismal hours of her night watch little Ned's brain took strange fancies, and he frequently addressed the forty brown jars that he had seen depicted on the walls, supposed to contain the forty thieves, and which he imagined were standing in the room, tenant-ed by their celebrated guests. It was a dreary night watch. The girl, ftdl of her sad thoughts, heard hour after hour pass eternally away. On the bed the little fevered patient tossed and struggled. Then he began to cry, and call for " Papa," — ^the father who on his death-bed had confided this child of his old age to his daughter's care. Poor Hilda cried too. Had she done her duty to him, she was thinking; had the struggling life that they were forced to lead led to this dire illness, perhaps to the child's death? " Oh God, spare him, spare him I " prayed poor Hilda many a time during her lonely BENEATH THE WAVE. 241 vigil. But when dawn broke little Ned was no better. The doctor came about nine o'clock, and looked very grave after he had examined his young patient. "He is very ill," he said; "it is a bad case." And with these words ringing in her ears Hilda was forced to sit down and write to her pupils; was forced to write to her sister Marian; and forced to face the pain- ful reality that for the present she was deprived of the means of winning their daily bread. VOL. II. u CHAPTEK XIII. A HESITATING ANSWER. Poor little Ned continued very, very ilL Some days there seemed to be reasons for hope, and some days hope seemed quite to pass away. Through all this dreary time Hayward acted as Hilda's faithful friend. He came daily, and brought what- ever luxuries he thought the sick child could take, and he asked his employer, Newcome, to advance fifty pounds of his salary, as he wished to assist a sick friend. Newcome opened his sharp little brown eyes to their widest extent upon this re- quest being made to him. "Why, ye don't mean to say," he said, *^that you are such a " (he was going BENEATH THE WAVE. 243 to say "fool," but stopped himself when he remembered Sir George Hamilton) "that you're such a soft one as that ? To borrow money to help a friend ? " Hajrward laughed. " Yes, I am such a fool," he said; " so will you oblige me?" Newcome had no objection to this. He fancied some day or other, through Sir George's agency, that Hayward would become a great man, and he was anxious, therefore, to give him no oflfence. He was also undoubtedly pleased at the idea of the thrashing that his nephew, Mr. Joe, had received from Hayward's hands. He had many a secret grudge to repay this objec- tionable young man. He had even con- descended to chaff Hayward on the sub- ject, and had asked him if he had been horse-whipping any more young scamps lately. . So Hayward continued on good terms with his employer, and did not absolutely dislike his work. It was not degrading. 244 BENEATH THE WAVE. at all events ; for the worst written book he was ever called upon to read did not approach in vulgarity and lowness of thought such men as his uncle and cousin Moxam. On the second or third day of little Ned's illness, he took Hilda the fifty pounds he had asked Newcome to advance, and placed the notes in her hand with a smile. The girl burst into tears when she saw them. "No, no, I cannot," she said;^ "not all these — I might ask Lady Hamilton for a little help — ^you too are poor." "Yes," answered Hajrward, still smiling, **but not too poor to help a friend. We must try to pull little Ned through — and —you don't mind my saying this ?— but I wish you would not ask Lady Hamilton for anything." Then Hilda dried her eyes, and held out her hand, which Hayward took. " God will bless you," she said in a voice BENEATH THE WAVE. 245 broken witih emotion. " You have truly helped the fatherless and the poor." Thus all anxiety about money was over, for the present at least; but still little Ned got no better. Sometimes he lay in a stupor^ and sometimes he raved and wandered, but it aU ended in the same thing. It was a bad case, as the doctor had told Hilda from the first, and gradu- ally Hilda almost ceased to hope. One evening the end seemed very near. The child lay gaspiBg, panang-^gglh>g, as it were, with death. Hilda stood in tearless agony by the bed, holding up the little sufferer, trying vainly to reUeve him. It was a piteous sight. By-and-bye Hayward came quietly into the room, and stood also by the bed. He, too, thought the end was drawing near. Suddenly, he went up to Hilda, and whispered. " Hilda," he said, " would you like to see Jervis?" And he coloured like a girl as he asked the question. Yet he felt this young man might bring 246 BENEATH THE WAVE. them some comfort. The very presence of his serene and perfect faith, which left all things so confidently in the hands of God, might, he thought, console Hilda in this trying hour, and thus he asked if he might bring his friend. "Oh, yes," said Hilda, eagerly. "Yes." Anything — ^if they could but do anything ! Mrs. Bargate, their landlady, had shaken her head and prophesied with the freedom of her class during the evening "that it was no good trying anything now." But it is hard, very hard to believe that we can do no more. So Hayward went for Horace Jervis, and half-an-hour later the young curate entered the room. " He had a face like a benediction." Un- consciously, Hilda looked up for hope and comfort in the serene grey eyes that were bent so kindly upon her. And he had some to give. He had stood by sick beds and death beds so often, that he was familiar with the needs alike of the sorrowing and the dying. He could tell of the peace which BENEATH THE WAVE. 247 the world giveth not, and cheer the startled summoned soul with words of hope and pardon. . He knelt down by little Ned's bedside and prayed; but the child heeded him not. The fluttering spmt was dulled by the mysterious link that bound it to the stricken-fevered frame. And yet mda felt thankfiil that the curate had come. "Will you come again?" she said, with streaming eyes, before he left; and in his gentle, kindly way, Mr. Jarvis promised to do so. *VBut do not be afraid," he said. "You are not forsaken. God is keeping watch over the child." How often Hilda thought of these words during the night ! G6d was keeping watch over the child. Whether he lived or died he had still a father in heaven, and some- how this thought seemed to lighten the load of responsibility that had weighed on the poor girl's heart. She told something of this to Hayward. 248 JBENEATH THE WAVE. *' I have blamed myself," she said. " If I had married, little Ned might have been so differently brought up in every way. This is what my sister says. I thought only of myself." " If you had married ? " repeated Hay- ward, in surprise. "Yes," answered Hilda, blushing. "I never told you, but Mr. Trevor asked me to be his wife before I left Sanda. This was why he would do nothing more for Kttle Ned. I — I fear I was selfish." "No," said Hayward, warmly, "you were a good and honest girl. Never marry a man you do not love ; if you do, you will be false to all that is true and noble in your heart." Hilda blushed more deeply still at these words, and her head fell. Life seemed so diflScult to her, and there were so many things hard to understand. This illness of little Ned's, for one thing. She had been doing her best. She had tried to be honest, and had preferred a life of BENEATH THE WAVE. 249 toil, almost of penury, to taking a false oath, and swearing to love the old man who had asked her to many him. And yet all this evil had come upon her, and the shadow of a great grief. This did not lighten as days went on. Little Ned fought with death, and after a weary struggle the grim foe seemed for a time to leave the child ; but the marks of that deadly fray remained. The strong, healthy, mischievous, merry Uttle boy was gone. What Hilda had left was a pale drooping child, almost deaf, and with some other painful dregs of the dangerous dis- order through which he had passed. He was now a constant care. It took all Hilda's time to attend to his fretful wants, and to soothe and try to amuse the poor Httle fellow, who such a short while ago had been so well and strong. Then grim care came to add to Hilda's troubles. Her late pupils declined to receive her after having scarlet fever in the house; and what was Hilda to do? 250 BENEATH THE WAVE. Horace Jervis and Hayward were more than good to her. The curate would never allow her to despond. He was greatly interested in her, and almost daily he came to see Uttle Ned. The poor boy was threatened with hip disease, and Jervis took him to one of the most eminent surgeons in London, and spared no expense in endeavouring to restore his health. All this threw the curate constantly with Hilda. Hayward had told him of her refusal of Mr. Trevor s offer, and the girl's sweet, unselfish, tender nature, her noble struggles for independence ; and her patient endurance of poor little Ned's fretful com- plainings, when she was doing everything for his benefit, deeply touched and finally won Horace Jervis's heart. But he did not at first tell her so. Had he who hved not for earthly things any right to form new and tender ties ? Would they bind him to life with too strong a bond, and make death — which he believed to be but the gate of heaven — seem dark to him, BENEATH THE WAVE. 251 if it separated him from the woman he loved? Again and again he argued these questions. But at last the girl's care- burdened life decided him to speak ; for one day Hilda, with painfiil hesitation, asked him if he would help her to gain some new occupation. "My pupils have left me," she said. "Miss May, who was here yesterday, told me plainly that she dared not now recom- mend me, because if a child were to take scarlet fever a year hence, under the cir- cumstances she would be blamed for it. Yet it is absolutely necessary I should work. Do you think I could be a schoolmistress, and that you could get me into some parish school? I will do anything ; I must do some- thing. I might perhaps be a telegraph clerk ?" Then Horace Jervis, after a moment's silence, spoke. " Will you be my wife, Hilda ?" he said quite quietly. " I will take charge of the boy. Do you think you could learn to like me well enough to marry me ?" 252 BENEATH THE WAVE. Could she learn to like him well enough to marry him? What made Hilda start when she heard these words^ and a burning blush dye her face? Was it another face that rose before her ? A clever, thoughtful face, that she had first seen in the little village church of Sanda-by-the-Sea ? Yes, she was thinking of Philip Hayward. Of the man who did not love her, as she had so often sadly told herself, but whose image now came between her and another man. She had ordered herself not to love Hayward. He was her friend. She was bound to him by extraordinary bonds of gra- titude; but this was all. Not until Jer- vis said, "Will you be my wife?" did she admit to herself that Philip Hayward was anything more to her than this. Then, when she thought of marrying another man, she knew that she loved Hayward, and that the thought of anyone else bound to her in such close relationship would be hateful to her soul. But, on the other hand, there was little BENEATH THE WAVE. 253 Ked ; and there was also the generous man who in this hour of trial had asked her for her love. "Well," said Jervis, gently, almost ten- derly, looking at the girl's changing fece, *' do you think you could learn to love me ? " '* You ^you are very good," faltered Hilda. "How good?" said Jervis. "Sometimes I have thought of late, do you know, Hilda, that it was not ' good ' or even right of me to seek your love. I feared the sweet tie might make life too pleasant to me, and perhaps interfere with what ought to be, and must continue to be, its most absorbing interest. But lately I have taken another view of this, and I pray God that it is a right one. For one thing there is the child to consider; for another, can we not be fellow workers ? There are many cases of sin and sorrow where a good woman's voice and presence are more than a man's. If you will be my wife we might help each other." 254 BENEATH THE WAVE. It was not a romantic wooing, was it? And yet Jervis's heart was beating with tender emotion, and he loved the girl he was asking to share his work. You see he esteemed this beyond everything. It was his Masters work. If Hilda would come and help him, she, too, would enter that eracious service. It was thus he argued when he decided to <«k her to be his ^e. But who knows ? Perhaps the frail mortal deceived himself, and clothed his own fond yearnings in words of seeming duty and reserve. " May I think f hesitated HHda. " This is so sudden. Let me have time to think" " Yes, certainly," answered Jervis. " Tell me to-morrow what you think. Be quite open with me, Hilda. Let me be your friend as well as your lover." " Yes," said Hilda ; and she held out her hand, which the curate pressed, and then after a few more words he took his leave. It was a mpmentous question that the poor girl was left to decide. Between a BENEATH THE WAVE. 255 good man's love, a settled home and posi- tion in the world, and comforts and tender thought for the sick child left in her care, and a vague shadowy feeling — an unre- tumed love — ^for another man. Yet that vain shadow disturbed her. It made her shrink from the thought of what otherwise would have been sweet to her, and trembled at a prospect which might have seemed so fair and smooth. But she was not left alone to make her decision. During the evening Miss May (who had been very kind in sending little Ned jeUies ^d fruit during his illness) unexpectedly arrived. No sooner, then, did the old lady enter the room than she at once noticed Hilda's agitated and absent manner. " Oh, my dear ! " she said, fixing her sharp brown eyes on the girl's face, " surely no new misfortune has happened to you ? '' " No," answered Hilda ; and then, eager for a woman's counsel, she told her old schoolmistress of the curate's proposal. 256 BENEATH THE WAVE. As she finished her story, Miss May jumped up off her seat and kissed her. " My dear I " she said, " I never was so pleased." " But, Miss May, I don't know — '' faltered Hilda. " I— I don't love Mr. Jervis.*' "Then learn to do so, as fast as you can," answered the energetic old lady. "What! you don't mean to say you are hesitating ? My dear, are you mad ? " " I hope not," said poor Hilda, trying to smile. "You would be utterly so, stark mad, in fact," continued Miss May, " if you did not thankfully accept this young man's generous proposal. Why ! do you know what you are ? A girl without a sixpence. No particular beauty either, though you have an agreeable face ! And then do you forget the unfortunate child that you have the misfortune to have attached to you ? " "No, I don't forget poor little Ned," said Hilda, her eyes filling with tears. BENEATH THE WAVE. 257 ^* Mr. Jervis mentioned him twice — ^he said he would take charge of the child." " Then I can only say he's a man in a Imndred, and you should thank God, night ^nd day, for having got him ! " piously •ejaculated Miss May. " My dear, offers of marriage are not plentiful for poor girls who have to work for their bread. I had •one, and I may tell you, though I wasn't bad-looking, and was quite agreeable to be married, that I never had another." ''And you think " " I think — no, I don't think, I'm sure, it's your duty gratefully to accept this proposal, and immediately begin to love Mr. Jervis with the greatest fervour. Ah, my dear, a good man to help and protect you through life doesn't fall to everyone's lot ! You are a fortunate girl, and if you got to know this young clergyman through little Ned being expected to die, I can only say that it was very obliging of little Ned to appear to be so near his end." '' Miss May ! " VOL. II. S 258 BENEATH THE WAVE. " I am quite in earnest, my dear. Bless me, what a lucky girl you have been ! With your by no means remarkable looks, you might have faded and faded, and no man ever looked at you." The strictly practical view of the case was not without its influence on Hilda. Another strong practical argument, too, in favour of Jervis was the state of her purse. That '^ base coin dug from the bowels of the earth" has indeed a wonderful influence on our destinies. It is all very well for those who have never felt the want of it to talk grandly and largely on the subject. But wait until the pinch of poverty comes, before you can estimate money at its full value. Hilda had felt this cold pinch. She had known what it was literally to want the means of existence. She had been forced — oh, cruel necessity ! — ^to borrow : to accept the grudged dole which usually falls from the rich man's hand. So, when Horace Jervis came for his answer, the next day, she accepted him. BENEATH THE WAVE. 259 Then the young curate took her in his. arms and kissed her pale cheek. "My dear, may God bless the new life on which we are about to enter!" he said solemnly. " May it be to His glory and honour ! " Hilda trembled, and her heart was greatly troubled when she heard these words. "I — I — fear I am not good enough for a clergyman's wife," she said, with much hesitation. "None of us are 'good enough,' Hilda, "^ answered the curate, with a smile, " but we must try to make each other better." " I will try," said Hilda ; and she put her hand modestly into her betrothed's. She meant she would try to do her best, not to make Horace Jervis better, but to do her duty in the new life that she had now chosen. " I wonder what Hayward will think of this ? " presently said the curate. " Do you know, Hilda, I once thought that you and he were likely to marry each other; but 260 BENEATH THB WAVE. when I hinted this to Philip he told me that it was not so — that in fact some unfortunate attachment had greatly em- bittered his life." "Yes," answered Hilda, with changing colour; "he once cared for the most beautiful woman whom I ever saw — ^for Miss Trevor, now Lady Hamilton." "Poor Hayward!" said Jervis, kindly. ^- But in time I trust that he will get over it — ^in time I trust he will find a good and loving wife." " Yes," said Hilda ; and she sighed, and almost immediately afterwards changed the conversation. But the day did not end till her interest was excited afresh in Hayward. The late evening post brought her a letter from him, the contents of which greatly sur- prised and even alarmed her. They were as follow : — " My Dear Hilda, — Excuse my not call- ing to see you before I leave town this BENIIATH THE WAVE. 261 evening; for I have spent such a busy, distressing day that I have not had time to do so. Sir George Hamilton called upon me last evening, and from circum- stances which have occurred, urged me to return with him to Massam. Something very painful and tragic has happened there, but I have not time now to write the particulars to you. I write this note so that you may know where I am to be found, and if you want any money or anything ,else that I can possibly do for you, please let me know, addressing your letter *Care of Sir G. Hamilton, Massam Park.' I will write you further particulars when I reach Yorkshire, and remain, dear Hilda, yours very truly, "Philip Hayward." "P.S.— Tell little Ned, with my love, that if I remain in the country — of which there appears to be a probability — ^that he must come and stay with me, and that I will get him a pony. P. H.^' 262 BENEATH THE WAVE. Never before had Hilda received a letter which so completely puzzled her. Hay- ward had never even hinted at the possi- hiUty that some day he might return to Massam. Then what could have occurred there that was at once tragic and painful? Hilda tried in vain to answer this question, but she felt uneasy and disturbed. Why had Hayward gone back to Massam ? Why had he once more approached the fatal beauty that had so nearly destroyed his hfe ? CHAPTER XIV. CLOSE ON life's TREAD STEALS DEATH. To answer these questions, and to explain Hayward s letter to Hilda, we must go back two days. Two days, then, before the evening on which she received it — ^received the letter that caused her such anxiety and pain — ^the hbunds had met at Massam Park. It was a favourable morning, and a great gathering of the gentlemen of the neigh- bourhood had assembled there. Isabel was now in the zenith of her popularity, and was almost universally considered the most beautiful woman in Yorkshire. Men raved about her charms, and even women as a rule admitted them. But she was a greater favourite with gentlemen than with ladies. 264 BENEATH THE WAVE. This, perhaps, was only natural. The care- less, even slightly defiant manner she often indulged in was more likely to fascinate men than matrons, and there were faint whispers too (not exactly scandals) that she was indiscreet in her friendships, and that Mr. Hannaway, Sir George's lawyer, was more frequently at the Park than there was any necessity for. But this did not affect her position. Sir George's great wealth and her own beauty had fully secured this, and Lady Hamil- ton of Massam was courted and admired wherever she condescended to appear. The morning on which the hounds met at the Park she had felt very triumphant. She went out on the terrace after the break- fast was over, and stood there talking to the red-coated men, while some of the favourite hounds also gathered around her. Always gorgeous in her dress and surround- ings, she wore this morning a costume of dark green velvet and sable, and as she stood with the sun shining on her golden BENEATH THE WAVE. 265 hair and wonderfully perfect features, she was conscious that every man present was admiring her. Prominent in the group near her was her old acquaintance, the handsome Gfuardsman, Captain Warrington. Isabel was jesting and coquetting with him, as was her wont ; but Captain Warrington was by no means as devoted as several other of her admirers were supposed to be. There was a certain Lord George Ker there also, who raved about her, and was ready to do any mad thing for her sake. But Isabel in conse- quence cared very little about Lord George. Captain Hugh Warrington, on the contrary, was perfectly cool, and apparently unmoved by the beauty before him. He smiled and chatted, and looked as he ever did, remark- ably handsome, but that was all. Yet jealous eyes were fixed upon him. There was a cloud on Mr. Hannaway's brow as he hovered near Isabel, and saw that she lavished most of her looks and smiles on the favoured Guardsman. Yet he lingered 266 BENEATH THE WAVE. on the terrace after the other men had mounted, and approachmg Isabel, said a few words in a low tone. " So you have not even one smile for me this 'morning?" and the man's voice trembled as he spoke. Yes ! he was in earnest. She had wiled his heart away, as she had wiled Hay- ward's, as she had wiled Sir George's ; and now she was ready to laugh at the once astute lawyer, who had laughed and scoffed in his day also at the very feelings to which now he had fallen a victim. *' And what would you do with a smile, even if I were to give you one ?" answered Isabel, jestingly. " You know how much I would treasure it," said Mr. Hannaway, almost passionately; and then after a few more such words he turned away. Isabel looked after him for a moment^ but presently returned to the house, singing a few lines of the chorus of a hunting song iis she did so. She was not allowed to hunt BENKATH THE WAVE. 267 just then; but the excitement of the sport had great charms for her^ and she was a fearless rider. She was not thinking of Mr. Hannaway, however, as she went in, nor yet of Sir George. She was thinking of Captain Hugh Warrington, and wondering if he would ever learn to like anyone better than himself. This was his attraction to her vain heart. She could not apparently make him miserable, and so she was absolutely beginning to imagine herself sometimes miserable about him. She loitered through the next two hours in her usual frivolous manner. It chanced that she had no visitors staying in the house that morning, and she therefore spent it principally in her dressing-room, planning new costumes with her maid. About one o'clock, however, she was startled by Sir George coming hastily into the room, looking very pale and shocked. *' I have come to tell you something very painful, Isabel," he said kindly, going up to her, and laying his hand on her 268 BENEATH THE WAVE. shoulder. And then as Isabel looked up inquiringly in his face, he added, "There has been a sad accident on the hunting field, and poor Hannaway has had a terrible fall." " Mr. Hannaway ! " echoed Isabel, and for a moment her blooming face grew pale. "Yes, he is insensible, poor fellow," continued Sir George, "his horse rolled over him, and I fear he is badly hurt. They are carrying him here, but I hurried on to tell you — ^for I was afraid, my dear Isabel, that the sudden shock might do you harm." " You are very kind," said Isabel, slowly. Then she asked ^' do you think he will die ? " " I don't like his looks," answered Sir George; and Isabel's brows contracted, and an expression of anxiety stole over her face as she heard the words. A minute or two later they heard a strange stir in the hall below ; and Sir George, after listening for a moment, left BENEATH THE WAVE. 269 Isabel, telling her, however, that he would return almost immediately. But Isabel was in no mood to wait. Scarcely had Sir George left her than she, too, passed swiftly out of the room, and went to a corridor which looked straight down upon the hall. She saw there a mournful sight. On the inlaid marble pavement lay a figure, motion- less, ghastly. She could see the white face, too — ^the changed white face which, but two hours ago, had been so full of life and love ! By the side of this prostrate figure a surgeon was kneeling, and endea- vouring to pour something between the set teeth. But as Sir George approached the surgeon looked up and shook his head. ** Is he worse ? " asked Sir George, bending eagerly down, after pushing his way through the Uttle group of gentlemen and servants collected in the hall. Then the surgeon opened the prostrate man's waistcoat, and laid his ear down upon his body. 270 BHNHATH THE WAVE. He did thi» fi)r a few moments, and then again looked up^ and once moie shook his head. **It is aR over," he said, addr^sing^ Sir €reoi^. " The heart's action has stoj^ped. Mr. Hannaway is dead." And he arose to his feet affcer having pronounced this verdict "My Grod! you do not say so?" ex- daimed Sir Greorge, and he too proceeded to examine the dead man. Bat it was all over, as the doctor had said. The vain, clever, worldly heart had ceased to beat ; and with an anxious firown upon his face Sir Greorge rose, after he had satisfied himself that this was actually the case. "Carry him to a bedroom," he said, and as the servants obeyed him he followed the sad procession, and when the men laid Mr. Hannaway's body on a bed he sharply and peremptorily desired every one present to quit the room. The men, with surprised looks, went out, BENEATH THE WAVE. 271 and then Sir George went up to the body, and with an inward shudder put forth his hand and began to search the dead man's pockets. He did this carefully, though his bitten lips and clammy brow showed his shrinking aversion to the task. But he was looking for the dead man's keys which locked away some of Sir George's own secrets, and he wished no prying eyes to see that he was doing this. Presently he came on what he wanted, and on some letters. These he took, and the keys, and then with a shuddering glance at the white face and fixed half-open eyes he left the room, which was presently entered by the usual weird attendants of the dead. Without a word to anyone in the house. Sir George then went straight by a private way to the stables, and ordered a horse to be saddled. Isabel had seen the servants carry Mr. Hannaway's body upstairs, and she had seen Sir George follow the body. She felt nervous and alarmed, and uncertain how to act. Mr. Hannaway had secrets 272 BENEATH THE WAVE. of hers also, and she began to be ftill of fear that his sudden death might bring these to light. Yet what could she do? She presently went down into the small dining-room, where lunch was laid, and glanced anxiously around the shocked faces of the group of gentlemen who were standing by the fire discussing the accident to see if Sir George was amongst them; but she saw that he was not. Lord George Ker approached her with a few commiserating and feeling words. "This is a terrible thing, Lady Hamil- ton," he said. "Most terrible," answered Isabel, won- dering all the while where Sir George could be. Sir George was riding at that moment as fast as his horse could carry him to Combe Lodge, where Mr. Hannaway had lived. He wished to get there before the lawyer s death was known to his household ; before anyone could take possession of the dead man's effects. BENEATH THE WAVE. 273 He succeeded in this. The neat well- kept place, with a gardener mowing with a machine the trim lawn in the front of the house, looked quite undisturbed as he approached it. No evidence of the news of sudden death was here. The man who was mowing glanced up and touched his hat as Sir George rode past him, but that was all. Sir George knew from this that he was in time. He beckoned to the gar- dener, therefore, to hold his horse, and having dismounted, rang the house door- bell, which was answered by a page boy. " I wish to look at some papers in Mr. Hannaway's library," said Sir George, and without hesitation the youth admitted him ; for of course Sir George was known to all the members of Mr. Hannaway's household. Then Sir George went into the library, in which a good fire was burning (for the late owner loved comfort well), and having got there, his first action was to turn the key in the door. Secure thus from inter- ruption he proceeded with the dead man's VOL. II. T 274 BENEATH THE WAVB. keys to open his secretaire, and after glancing at its contents, he next opened an iron safe which stood beside it. Here were kept Mr. Hannaway s most private papers. Packets of letters, neatly tied together and endorsed, now met Sir George's view, and with trembling hand he quickly drew out one on which was written " Confidential letters from Sir ^ George Hamilton, from Spain ; " and to each of these was added the date on which it had been received. Other documents were enclosed in this packet also ; documents concerning certain sums of money settled on a Dona Catalina Mendoza, and on a child. There was another packet, too, lying near this one in the safe. Receipts in Spanish from Padre Fernandez, of Seville, for sums of money received up to a very late date. All these papers were methodi- cally arranged and docketed; and as Sir George lifted out of the safe the receipts of the Padre, his eyes suddenly fell on another packet of letters lying near also. BENEATH THE WAVE. 275 This was endorsed " Letters from Lady Hamilton/' and was secured, not like the others with an elastic strap, but was tied together by a narrow blue ribbon. Sir George glanced at this packet for a moment in surprise, and then frowned. Then he looked at the address of one of the letters, and recognized Isabel's clear handwriting, and his breath came short, and his brow darkened as he did so. Next he opened this letter, and an excla- mation of rage and shame broke from his lips as he read the words it contained. It was the first letter that Isabel had written to the lawyer ; the letter which she had written when she returned to Massam as a bride, and in which she had asked Mr. Hannaway to ride over to renew the conversation about her father's proposed marriage with Lucinda Featherstone. These were the words that Sir George now read; the brief words that his bride of a few weeks had written to another man : — 276 BENEATH THE WAVE. " Dear Mr. Hannaway, — Sir Greorge has ridden out this morning. Can you come over at once? I wish to renew the con- versation that was intermpted last night abont L.R — ^Yours truly, ''I. Hamilton." Was this real ? Was this true ? Sir George could scarcely believe his dazed and dazzled eyesight, before which the clearly-written Unes seemed to dance and whirl 1 But too convincing evidence lay close at hand. This was but one letter, and there were many others. Letters which disclosed the whole plot about the anony- mous letter to Mr. Trevor; letters which grew more and more confidential as time went on, and in which she constantly alluded to himself in semi-contemptuons terms : — " Sir George looks a little more solemn than usual this morning ; Sir Geoige has gone up to town for a day, and I must say that the house feels more lively in BENEATH THE WAVE. 277 consequence ; " and so on. In such terms had Isabel written to Mr. Hannaway of her husband ; and now, pale — ^almost ghastly — ^her husband stood reading the condemn- ing words. A curse broke from his white Hps as he went on — a curse, and a cry of bitter, bitter agony* This was the woman he had pas- sionately loved — ^this ! What ? She had lied, then, from the beginning ! She had cheated him when she seemed most fond — and now — ^and now! Oh, what bitter miserable thoughts rushed through Sir George's brain during the next half-hour. Old memories, ill-deeds of his own that he had tried to forget and wrongs wrought on an innocent being for the sake of the false, fair woman who had betrayed him — all rose before him revengefully then. And what must he do ? Gro to her — show her these vile letters — strike her dead! " God ! God ! " groaned Sir George, 278 BENEATH THE WAVE. as the last thought occurred to him, and he buried his face in his hands. Of what was he thinking ? Of a blow which he had once given in his passion, long ago, and the consequences of which had ever since haunted his hfe with remorse and shame. No, he must not go near her. He dare not trust his outraged maddened heart. The woman that he had loved — the woman soon to be the mother of his child — ^he must meet no more. "I dare not see her," he thought. "I dare not look again on tibe false fair face that has fooled my soul so long." So he made up his mind to go away. He took the letters that he had written long ago to Mr. Hannaway, from Spain; the letters from the Padre in Seville, and all documents connected with this affiiir. He took, too, the lettei-s that had stabbed his heart with so terrible and treacherous a blow. Then he locked the iron safe that had given up its dark secrets, and the secretaire also, in which some of the dead BENEATH THE WAVE. 279 man's own secret doings lay hidden from the Kght. But Sir George meddled not with them. What was it to him if Mr. Hamiaway had deceived other women and lied to other men ? He was not thinking of Hannaway. In his heart he knew that this man had probably been a victim like the rest — *^like Hay ward " — thought Sir George — " the young man who saved my miserable life." Then he thought again of Hayward. He knew that he was honourable and trust- worthy, and he wanted some one now in whom he could trust. There were things that must be done. Some one must take Hannaway s place and arrange Hannaway's affairs, and see after matters that Sir George had trusted to the late lawyer s hands. So Sir George decided to go to Hayward. But before he went he must write a few lines to the woman who had so shamefully deceived him ; to the woman whom he must still call his wife. He wrote these in Mr. Hannaway's 280 BENEATH THE WAVE. library, or rather in the room that had been Mr. Hannaway's. Only a few cold words :— " It is necessary that I should go to town to-day. I will write to you to- morrow." This was all. No token of the relation- ship between them; no token of the love that Isabel had trifled with and flung away. Then he directed his letter, and entrusted it to the gardener, whom he found when he went outside, still holdbg his horse. " Take this to Massam," he said, placing the letter and a gratuity in the gardener's hand. "Ask for Roberts, the butler, and desire him from me to give it to Lady Hamilton at once." And the man touched his hat, and held Sir George's horse while he mounted, thinking all the while how strange it was that the owner of such wealth should look so dark and sad. BENEATH THE WAVE. 281 Sir George rode from Combe Lodge straight to the nearest railway station. A train from the South passed in half an hour, and in half an hour Sir George was on his road to London. He arrived there in the evening, and then drove direct to Hayward's lodgings. Imagine the young man's shock, his shame and pam, when he heard Sir George's story. He, too, had loved — ^had loved most deeply, this beauti- ful woman without honour. It seemed a shame and disgrace even to him as he listened to Sir George's burning words of indignation; to him that he had wasted so much on so vile a thing! Sir George left Isabel's letters with Hayward when he went away. " Head them all," he said, " I cannot, and then judge between us. If you believe she has done me the worst wrong a woman can do her husband, she shall leave my roof. But if you think — and her nature is so vain, and her heart so cold, that it is probable — that she has but trifled with the affections 282 BENEATH THE WAVE. of the unfortunate man who died to-day, as she trifled with yours, then, for the sake of the child that is to be bom, I will bring no public disgrace upon her. But from this day," continued Sir George, darkly, "she is no wife of mine. But what will she care?" he added, with extreme bitter- ness. "She is Lady Hamilton. If she retains her position and her name, she re- tains all for which she married me. Well was it for you, Hayward, that you were a poor man I Had you been a rich one, you would have been the chosen husband of her love ! " With a harsh and grating laugh. Sir George turned away and left Hayward after uttering these words — left Hayward to read the letters, and to sit in judgment on the woman whom he had once so passionately loved. CHAPTER XV. HUSBAND AND WIFE. The next day Sir George again sought Hayward. " Well T he said, as he entered the young man's room, and Hayward understood the unspoken question that was asked by Sir George's gloomy and inquiring eyes. " I have read Lady Hamilton's letters," he said, after a moment's sUence. " Yes T said Sir George, still looking at Hayward, who was pale and nervous. " And I believe," continued Hayward, trying to speak steadily, ** that it has been as you suggested. Lady Hamilton has trifled with Mr. Hannaway's feelings. All her later letters are evidently but jesting 284 BENEATH THE WAVE. replies to his earnest ones. It has been with this unfortunate man— as it has been with others." As Hayward with hesitation and pain said these words, Sir George gave a sort of sigh of relief. Then he sat down by the table and covered his face with his hand. His heart was sore within him, and foU of bitterness. He wa^ thinking of what his wealth had brought him. Not love, nor peace, nor happiness, but shame and bitter padn. What ! had he to listen to such words as he had just heard, and yet be thankful ! His wife had been but jesting jesting away her fair fame scoffing, perhaps, at the dead man as in the earlier letters, which he, her husband, had read, she had scoffed and jested at him ! For a few moments Sir George did not speak, as one after another the most bitter arid galling reflections passed through his mind. Hayward also, during this inte^rval, was silent, and felt full of embarrassment and pain. Then suddenly Sir George held BENEATH THE WAVE. 285 out his hand, and said in a broken voice, "Hayward, you saved my life — make it, at least, endurable. Let me feel I have one friend— one fidend in whom I can trust !" Hayward was deeply affected at this appeal, and at the gloomy misery so visibly impressed on Sir George's face. " I have always felt most grateful to you. Sir George," he said, putting his hand into Sir George's cold trembling one, as he spoke ; " but the difference of our position prevented me ^" And Hayward paused. " Then forget that difference," said Sir George, rising. " Forget that I was bom a rich man, and you a poor one, for that is the only difference between us." **Very well," said Hayward, and he smiled. "And be my friend," continued Sir George. " Stand between me and my own gloomy thoughts — stand between me and the woman who mocked and scoffed at me when she pretended to seem most fond." 286 BENEATH THE WAVE. "And you trust me T said Hay ward, looking straight at Sir George with his grey and honest eyes. " I trust you completely/' answered Sir Greorge ; and Hayward's face suddenly flushed when he heard the words. " I will deserve that trust," he said in a low tone ; and after this Isabel's name was neither mentioned nor alluded to again between them. But Sir George made Hayward a distinct offer before their interview ended. This was to occupy the post held by the late Mr. Hannaway as manager of the Massam property. A liberal salary had always accompanied this appointment, and this Sir George now offered to Hayward. Combe Lodge as a residence, and a thousand a year, seemed to Hayward absolute wealth after the pinching poverty he had endured; and this was how Sir George proposed to remunerate his services. '' Let me see if I can manage the work first," said Hayward; and it was finally BENEATH THE WAVE. 287 agreed between them that Hay ward should accompany Sir George back to Massam, and that he should at once relinquish his em- ployment with Mr. Newcome, the printer. That gentleman received the information that his "reader" was about to quit his services with apparent equanimity. '* Humph ! " he said, when Hayward told him of Sir George's offer, "I thought it would end so. It's all very fine, young* gentleman, to ride a high horse, but one generally rides in the end to one's own advantage. So ! I suppose you will become a country gentleman next?" And Mr. Newcome sneered, for it was his nature to sneer. '*Well, if I do, will you come and visit me ? " answered Hayward, good-naturedly. "I'll be proud," said Newcome, trying to suppress the sneer which still curled upon his thin lips; for though his soul loved not to hear of any advancement or success happening to others, he yet was always ready to take advantage of it. 288 BENEATH THE WAVE. *' I always said," he continued, " that this Sir George Hamilton would do some- thing substantial for you some of these days. And you must say," he added after a moment's pause, "that I have kept to you through ill and good fortune. There was Moxam ready to eat my head off for not giving you up after that row you had with his young hopeful. But I flatter myself that I am not quite such a fool as Moxam." Mr. Newcome said these words proudly, for he had a very high opinion of his own mental capacity. He had, indeed, foreseen that the friendship and regard of a man in the position of Sir George Hamil- ton was almost sure to end in some permanent advantage to Hayward. Thus, ever since he had known of the connec- tion between them he had done his best to be civil to his "reader." This was not always easy to a man of his nature, and he therefore felt now that he ought to receive some reward for his self-deniaL BENEATH THE WAVE. 289 **You have been very kind to me, sir," said Hayward, in answer to the printer's speech, that he hoped he was not quite such a fool as Moxam, ** and I shall never forget it. Mr. Moxam was also kind to me in his way," added Hayward, smiling; "and you must tell him of Sir George's offer. I hope now he will forgive me about Mr. Joe," and Hayward laughed. Newcome smiled too (but sourly), and shrugged his shoulders. "He'll forgive you fast enough now, I dare say," he said. "Moxam is a fellow who weighs and estunates every man only in a monetary point of view. But that cannot be said of me." And Mr. New- come no doubt felt at that moment that as regards Hayward it could not; and he was well pleased with himself that it was so. After Hayward parted with Mr. New- come he returned to his lodgings, and there wrote the letter to Hilda which caused such anxiety and even alarm in VOL. II. u 290 BENEATH THE WAVE. her heart. Then he rejoined Sir George at the hotel at which he was staying, as it had been arranged between them, and together in a late train they returned to Massam. They were not unexpected there. Sir George had sent a special messenger down to the Park, after his interview with Hayward in the morning; and, in a few brief stem words, had told Isabel that all trust and love for her was gone out of his heart for ever. " Fo;* the sake of the child that is to be bom to us," he had written, ** I will bring no public shame upon you this time. But remem- ber, if you remain under my roof, you must respect it. I will not permit the woman who bears my mother's honoured name to stain it more deeply than you have already done." These were harsh words, and penned in a harsh and imforgiving mood. The very depth of Sir George s love for his wife made him more bitter to her now BENEATH THE WAVE, 291 when he knew how utterly she ha4 deceived him. He would never forgive her, he told himself; and stem, bitter, and determined, he returned to his now wretched home. Isabel received the letter that he sent by special messenger without any great IpL She, in feet, had gneid th. truth when Sir Greorge did not return to Massam on the day of Mr. Hannaway's death. She knew now, also, of his visit to the dead man's house after the fatal accident. Sir George had gone there probably, she thought, to hide some secrets of his own that the lawyer had been cognisant of, and thus had discovered hers. ** Fool ! " she said aloud bitterly, as she read her husband s letter, thinking of the unfortunate man whose life had ended so tragically. " So he must have kept my letters 1 What madness induced him to do such a thing?" And Isabel began pacing up and down the room, wondering how much Sir George knew ; thinking what 292 BENEATH THE WAVE. would be best to say to him, so as to turn his bitter wrath away. She heard the carriage arrive which brought her husband and Hayward from the station, and sat in her dressing-room with a beating heart, expecting momen- tarily to hear Sir George's footsteps ap- proach. But they never came. " Sir George had ordered dinner to be served in the library for himself and the gentleman," she was informed presently by her maid, on making inquiries. " What gentleman ? " asked Lady Hamil- ton, with quickened breath. He was a Mr. Hayward, her maid told her ; and Isabel breathed more freely when she heard the name. ^' So it is Hayward ! " she thought ; and she went up to her glass, and smiled as she did so. She could easily win back Hayward, she was thinking, and through him pro- bably Sir George. She remembered the scene in the picture gallery at that moment. BENEATH THE WAVE. 293 and Hayward's face of despair. Perhaps Sir Greorge had brought this young man down to fill Mr. Hannaway's place, she guessed ; " and in that case /' And Isabel smiled again, for she believed that she could mould Hayward entirely to her will. She waited until she knew dinner had been removed, and then sent a few lines down to the library, addressed to Sir George. "They tell me you have returned," she wrote, "and yet you have not come to say one word to me. What has changed you thus ? Surely not a few foolish letters that I wrote when I first came here to that vain and unfortunate man, who was killed on Tuesday ! I was (as you know) so angry about papa's foolish marriage that I would have done anything to prevent it, and I remember writing to Mr. Hannaway to try to induce him to assist me in doing so, as I knew you were too "fiiiiK: if miihii^ ^SBt Go: 'twimiiiWhi E SD. iL shE iiABr wul* innaoinr hd A — -» ^ .«. Ksmsova^.. Sz. 3s IkBEr tzf 3:iiBr fifie <ise I IsBzac or ^ifiac iniLgvima iag siobls lumse.' msr feffirrg!^ "a^w^ar^ t»:ii: ikt ^^^er. I no Isopar insfi ^ir Jtyr^ v^it — ^siiai for Ae sike cf die rfrJTfi ti&afi s » be biisft to oa^ I ^. B^i«rL!^,£f^^l^ under mj roof ji9a most respect iL I wiD not pennil the woomi who bens m j mother's hoiKKired name to slam it more deepl j flian joa bare alieaify done." iKibel had read and le-iead tiieBd woid& BENEATH THE WAVE. 295 What did he know ? she had thought. What secrets had the dead man left behind him, and how far had they served to blacken her character, and destroy her husband's love? But Sir George did not leave her long in doubt on these points. Scarcely had she sent her letter down to him, when she heard a slow and heavy footstep approach the door of her dressing-room, which she had not left during the day, as she either was, or pretended to be, ill. There was something ominous in that slow and heavy foot-fall. It was not the step of a man who comes with pleasant greetings or for- giving words. As Isabel heard it her heaxt sank a little, but she was defiant by nature ; and when Sir George, gloomy and stem- eyed, entered her dressing-room, she at once came forward to receive him. " You have come to speak to me at last, then ? " she said ; and she held out her hand to her husband. But Sir George made no responding 296 BENEATH THE WAVE. sign of amity. He stood there, silent and accusing ; and Isabels eyes fell beneath bis fixed and indignant gaze. "Why do you look at me thus?" she said. " What have I done r " What have you done ?" he answered, with extraordinary bitterness of voice and manner. " Ask, rather, what you have not done — you who have lied and deceived, as surely no other woman ever lied and deceived before !" " You are making mountains out of mole- hills," retorted Isabel. "Is aU this about a few foolish letters?" For a moment Sir George was silent; and Isabel, eager to propitiate him, came forward and laid her hand upon his arm. " I told you I was sorry I wrote them," she said. " You know how it was ? I was so angry about papa's foolish marriage that I was ready to do anything." And as she spoke she looked up appealingly with her lovely face at Sir Greorge. But with a shudder he pushed her hand away. BENEATH THE WAVE. 297 "Don't touch me," he said, averting his eyes. "Dont come near me — don't he to me any more. It is enough. I know it all now — ^you fooled me from the begin- mng. "Why should you think so?" asked Isa- bel, with an inward consciousness that he was speaking the truth. " I read your letters," said Sir George, bitterly ; " the letters you wrote to the man who is now lying dead! The letters in which my bride" (and his lip curled) " confided to a stranger how weary she was of my presence ! Yes," he continued, with increasing passion, "the white hand that clasped mine so tenderly, wrote at the same time how weary it was of that duty ! The rosy Ups that were pressed to mine com- plained of the bartered kiss!" " You use choice terms, I must say ! " said Isabel, with some of her old defiance of manner. " I have a choice subject," said Sir George, now looking with bitter scorn at his wife, 298 BENEATH THE WAVE. who had drawn herself to her full height, and stood there facing him. "If you mean to insult me " began Isabel. " Be silent ! " interrupted Sir George, passionately, " and listen to me. You lied to me and deceived me from the first; but let that pass. It is of the future I would speak. You married me for my money and my name, and you shall retain them on certain conditions, but only on those conditions." » "And what may these conditions be?'* asked Isabel, contemptuously. "That you remember your honour and mine," answered Sir George, darkly. " The dead man can tell no tales, but if you give any other man the same licence to do so you shall leave my house." "Well, it would not kill me to do so," said Isabel, yet more contemptuously. " No," said Sir George, with gloomy emphasis, looking sternly at the beautiful woman before him, "for you are one of BENEATH THE WAVE. 299 those who know not shame. But/' he added, ''remember you are warned. My honoured mother died here, and no dis- honoured wife shall live under my roof." " I can find other roofe, then," retorted Isabel, defiantly. "And what about your secrets?" she went on, tauntingly. "You are fond of prying into mine, it seems. What if I were equally curious?" For a moment Sir Greorge's eyes fell be- fore hers as she said this. Then he raised them. " I shall have to answer for my own ill deeds," he said, "but not to you. But enough of this,'* he added ; " I came here to-night to let you know the truth, and not for idle words. Henceforward you are nothing to me, but in name — ^but beware how you tarnish that name I Let no whisper reach my eare, or everything is ended be- tween us." And as Sir George said these last words he quitted the room, before the passionate reply that rose* on Isabel's lips oould find utterance. 300 BENJfiATH THE WAVE. Nothing could exceed her indignation when she found herself alone. That he dare speak to her thus, she thought — ^that any man dare ! She bit her white lips, and walked hastily up and down the room, thinking how she could revenge herself. The in- sulting words Sir George used, and the thorough disbelief and contempt he had ex- pressed for her, enraged Isabel's vain soul almost to madness. She stamped her foot on the floor and clenched her hands. She would make him pay for this, she deter- mined. Then suddenly an idea struck her. Her old victim, Hayward, was in the house — she would make him jealous of Hayward. This thought seemed to cool her anger. Again she went up to the long cheval glass, and stood looking at her beauty there, well pleased at the fair reflection. God had made her very beautiful. The lovely features, pre-doomed to fade and change, were now in full perfection. Time had not touched them, and the strangely BENEATH THE WAVE. 301 truthful tale that time tells, as years pass on, of how those years are spent, had not yet begun to be written upon that smooth and pleasant countenance. But it would be written. The wily man is wily to look upon, and the honest man honest. After youth is past, little by little the soul beneath peeps out. The noble thoughts and the mean ones each have their separate signs. God marks on the mortal part of us the semblance of the immortal. Almost invariably we carry our characters about with us, written in Knes not difficult to understand. But this time had not yet come to Isabel. The tell-tale lines were yet imsketched, the blooming skin uninjured by the subtle tracery. So she looked at herself in the long glass, well pleased. Then, after contemplating herself with satisfaction for a few minutes, she turned away, sitting down at her writmg table, which stood near, and after thinking a minute or two, she took up her pen and began writing a letter. 302 BENEATH THE WAVE. In the meanwhile Sir George had re- joined Hayward in the library, with aU the marks of agitation and anger still visible on his face. He did not speak for the first few minutes after he entered the room, but kept pacing restlessly, passing and re- passing Hayward, with his heavy uneven steps. Presently, however, he stopped. " Well," he said, " it is all over. I have broken with her — I have told her how vile a thing she is I " Hayward moved uneasily at these words. He, too, was agitated, and strange emotions were burning within him. A violent deep- seated feeling is not easily overcome, and though sense and reason may guard the heart, there are undercurrents strong and deep that sometimes dash precipitately up against these monitors. Coming back to Massam had powerfully affected Hayward, and he could not help feeUng greatly disturbed. He was going to meet Isabel again — Isabel whom he knew now to be so worthless and so false ! BENEATH THE WAVE. 303 And yet — strange human heart — it moved him deeply to hear her called so vile by Sir George. "This man— Mr. Hannaway," he said, hesitatingly, addressing Sir George, "may have deceived Lady Hamilton." "No," answered Sir George. Then he added, with gloomy pathos, " I loved her, Hayward — too well, too well. I sacrificed for her what honour and every sacred feeling bound me to respect. And yet — ^yet when I loved her best — when she seemed most tender, most fond — she was scoflSng and gibing at me ! No," he continued, begin- ning once more his restless pacings of the room; "make no excuses for her. A woman who could act as she has done is unworthy of a single thought." Yet he was always thinking of her— thinking of her with rage, shame, and jealousy burning in his heart. " I will put her away," he told himself. "I hate her," he told himself. And yet he coul(J not help thinking of her. Sir George's feelings 304 BENEATH THE WAVE. for Isabel had been one of those deep and enduring passions which make or mar a man's whole fixture life. In very sombre and gloomy fashion the two men, who had both loved this woman so much, parted for the night. Sir Greorge, however, made a sort of effort to speak of other things before they did so ; proposing that immediately after Mr. Hannaway's fimeral (which was to take place on the following day) Hayward should enter into possession of Combe Lodge. "I shall probably be able to purchase the furniture at a valuation," added Sir George, " so that you can go into the house at once. His will will be read to-morrow, and we shall then learn who are his execu- tors. He has left no near relations, I am told." Then, after a few more words on business. Sir George and Hayward parted, Hayward being ushered by the stately butler himself, at Sir George's request, to the luxuriously-furnished bedroom allotted for his use. BENEATH THE WAVE. 305 On the toilet table of this room a letter was lying, addressed to him. At the sight of this letter Hayward's face flushed, and then grew pale. He knew the handwriting on the dainty envelope, knew the monogram with which it was closed. Then he opened it, and read the words that Isabel had written but a short while ago. They were as follows : — "My dear Mr. Hayward, — I am told that you arrived here this evening with Sir George, and I would have asked to see you at once (so anxious am I to explain some of my former conduct to you), but I am too ill to leave my room to-day to do so, . Will you, however, go into the morning- . room here to-morrow, at eleven o'clock, and I will join you there ? You must not judge' me harshly. I have paid heavily enough for resisting the dictates of my heart. "I. H." In his dreams that night Hayward stood upon a precipice. He struggled, the loose VOL. II. X 306 BENEATH THE WAVE. stones slipping beneath his feet, and the dry grass giving way beneath his strained and frenzied clutch. He slipped and slipped. Below was a great blackness ; above, the stars, serene €iid luminous, looked down from the blue vault on his terrible pain. Then he felt himself falling — ^falling ! With a last- effort he flung out his arms, but his hands closed upon the empty air, and as they did so he awoke. Awoke, with his face wet with dew, and his hands still clasped. As he opened them, and strove to recall his scattered senses, some- thing fell from his grasp. It was Isabel's letter — the letter in which she had asked him to meet her, po that she might tell him how she had resisted the dictates of her heart. END OF VC^UME SECOND. CHAPTER I. OLD LOVERS. The morning-room at Massam was a plea- sant room. If the sun were out it came shining into the wide windows, and glinting on the rare and beautiful flowers in the con- servatory into which it opened. It had been refitted since the late Lady Hamilton's time, and the rose-coloured satin covering of the furniture and the flower and bird- decked paper on the walls all owed their existence to Isabel's fanciful taste. A pleasant room ! Yet with no pleasant countenance Hayward entered it at the appointed hour at which the wife of his VOL. III. B 2 BENEATH THE WAVE. friend and patron had a^ked him to meet her there. He was pale, almost haggard. His midnight dream haunted him, but other feelings also were in his heart. Sir George had trusted him. To Hayward this was enough. He was a man way- ward and passionate perhaps in some things, but his honour was as yet un- tarnished as gold. It was Isabel's dis- honour, the falsehood and treachery of her life, that filled him with such shame for himself and her. What! his heart was beating fast, and his pulses throbbing, because he was again about to meet such a woman as this? He scorned himself for his own weakness; he recalled, as he stood there, Horace Jervis's serene and earnest face, and Hilda Marston s sweet and patient one. ^' These two are my good angels," he told himself; and as he made the reflec- tion he turned, round and behind him stood Isabel, Lady Hamilton. The words that he had meant to say BENEATH THE WAVE. 3 to her — the cold, reserved words — died on his lips. Thoroughly and completely un- nerved, he stood before the beautiful woman who had caused him such misery and shame. With Isabel, however, it waa very different. ^'Mr. Hayward," she said, holding out her little hand, and speaking in her softest tones, "it is long since we metl" Mechanically Hajrward placed his cold trembling hand in hers. "You are changed," continued Isabel, fixing her eyes upon his face, "greatly changed since I have seen you. Aht yes — I heard of your trouble from Sir George. You have lost your poor mother ? And '' "Gone through a great deal since then," interrupted Hayward, with a •harsh Uttle laugh, as Isabel paused. Her pretended sympathy for him about his mother jarred upon his ears. A feeUng of indignation took possession of his heart, and the memory of the wrongs that he had ex- 4 BENEATH THE WAVE. perienced at her hands seemed at that moment very grievous to his soul. "It is about this that I wish to speak to you," said Isabel, eagerly. " I fear you think you have cause — nay, I know you have cause — ^to blame me for giving you some pain. But, Mr. Hayward, if you knew all " "Lady Hamilton," again interrupted Hay- ward, almost sternly, "we had better forget the past. I understand it all perfectly now, and it needs no explanation. You were amusing yourself, and I was in earnest, that is all " " It is unkind of you to say such things," answered Isabel, quickly. " If I had been only amusing myself, as you call it, what reason should I have for seeking you now? No — I was not amusing my- self — I suffered a foolish feeling to creep into my heart — after I had promised to marry Sir George." The old wily one, who tempted the woman at the beginning, never made a BENEATH THE WAVE. 5 more insidious speech than this. It wore the garb of truth, as it were, just as his did. The apples were good for food, and were pleasant to the eyes, and for any- thing that Hayward knew Isabel had learnt to care for him (as she said) after she had promised to marry Sir George. Hayward cast down his eyes as he heard the words. The passionate feelings that had once swept reason away, came surging over his heart. What ! she had cared for him, he was thinking — ^perhaps still cared for him ! At this moment the subtle influence of her great beauty, the blinding sense of her gra^iousness aaid trustfulness might have resumed its sway, when suddenly — quite suddenly — there flashed back into Hayward's mind the remembrance of her letters to Mr. Hannaway. This changed his mood. Isabel, watching him, saw the softened look grow hard, the quivering lips grow firm. ' **I — I still think. Lady Hamilton," said BENEATH THE WAVE. Hayward, speaking quietly but steadily, after the last reflection had occurred to him, "that we had better drop this dis- cussion." "But why?" asked Isabel. "For many reasons," replied Hajrward. "For one thing, it can do no good; for another, you are now Lady Hamilton." Isabel shrugged her fine shoulders. " Yes," she said, " I am Lady Hamilton. I have the title and money for which I sacrificed you." Hayward absolutely gave a start as she ended this sentence. Then the strong feelings of his heart — ^the half-dead passion, the bitter ? indignation, the shame and con- tempt with which he had read the letters that she had penned to the dead man^ rushed over hun, and he forgot alike respect and reserve. "What do you want with me?" he said, his fax^e growing pale and his eyes kindling. "Why are you cajoling and flattering me now, like you flattered poor BENEATH THE WAVE. 7 Hannaway? I won't be your slave. I won't write anonymous letters for you, or scheme and lie at your word as he did. I may as well tell you the truth, Lady Hamilton — I know too much." Isabel's eyes literally flashed with fury as Hayward said this. " What ! " she said, passionately, " has that coward, then, made you his confidant ? Have you also been prying and reading my letters, as the grand gentleman" (and her lip curled) "who did me the honour to marry me has done ? Tell me the truth, sir," she went on furiously, "tell me everything you know I " By this time Hajrward had grown calmer. "I did wrong," he said, bitmg his lips, and trying to curb his feelings, "to say what I have done. But you roused me almost to madness. Lady Hamilton." "What do you know?" repeated Isabel. "Sufficient," answered Hayward, with some sternness. "Yes," he continued, his 8 BENEATH THE WAVE. conflicting passions again almost over- whelming him, " there was a time * when to have pleased you I would have laid down my life ! When I believed you to be good as you are beautiful, pure as you are fair. You rejected my love, but still I loved you. I left here broken-hearted, weary of my life, all through] you ; but still I did not blame you. I had been mad, I told myself — ^mad ! § All the time when cruel trouble was on me — ^when my mother lay dying — all the time your image never left me. But now — ^now, when I know you to be so false, when by Sir George's wish I read the letters you had written to Mr. Hannaway, what can you expect? I did not seek this interview. I did not vnsh for any explanation to pass between us; but since you urged it, let it be so." *^You read my letters to Mr. Hanna- way ? " said Isabel, slowly. " All my letters?" She was beginning to think she had indeed played a losing game. BENEATH THE WAVE. 9 " I read all that Sir George placed in my hand," answered Hayward. " The begin- ning and end of a long correspondence." Isabel was silent for a few moments after receiving this communication. In fact, she did not know exactly what to say. Was her power over Hayward entirely gone ? she was wondering. The very anger and passion of his language, perhaps, might have told her that it was not. But these wretched letters were hard nuts to crack. She knew that she had flattered Mr. Han- naway in them ; that she had fooled him, and it was diflSicult in the face of them to begin to attempt to fool and flatter ahother man. At last she spoke. "You know about mv father's foolish marriage, of course V she said. " I ought to tell you as some explanation of these letters that you read, and which I most bitterly regret that I ever wrote, that I was intensely averse to ray father marrying Lucinda Featherstone. I hinted something 10 BENEATH THE WAVE. of this feeling to Mr. Hannaway, and he then told me many particulars about the Featherstone family that I felt it was only right that my father should know. But I remembered an old man's — ^in fact, a dotard's folly ! If I were to tell him these things, would he believe me ? I thought. So in an hour of madness I listened to Mr. Hannaway. * Write an anonymous letter/ he said. ' I will post it,' he urged. Thus I fell to a certain extent into his power. My father came here and made some ridi- culous scenes. Mr. Hannaway and I had to meet him, and of course deceive him as to our share in the transaction. Do you understand now ? It was thus I became intimate with Mr. Hannaway. He never was anything to me but a tool — I never, upon my solemn word of honour, regarded him in any other light." To some extent Hayward believed this story ; indeed, as we know, to some extent Isabel was speaking the truth. But there remained in his mind certain tender expres- BENEATH THE WAVE. 11 sions — certain tender allusions in the letter to Mr. Hannaway, that it did not get rid of. But it is hard to keep on accusing a person who admits his or her wrong. Isabel had practically done this, and now Hay- ward's anger began to cool. *'We can do no good, Lady Hamilton, as I told you before," he said, " by talking of these things. I should not have men- tioned them ; and now I ask you to forgive me for using language to you that I should not have done. But you understand what I have felt ?' " I understand," answered Isabel, " and I forgive you. I forgive you," she continued, "because I beUeve that your feeUngs for me were real, and because I know I acted wrongly by you. But," she added, " I have had bitter cause to repent." "To repent what?" asked Hay ward, as she paused. ^^That I married Sir George Hamilton," answered Isabel, steadily; and she watched Haywaxd's fax^e as she spoke. 12 BENEATH THE WAVE. It flushed, but only for a moment. *^Sir George Hamilton," he replied, also steadily, " has honoured me with his friend- ship. He has trusted me, and he soothed my dear mother's last hours by his gene- rosity. You can understand, therefore. Lady Hamilton, that I can listen to no word against him ; that whatever cause of anger you have with him, that I can only regret it." Isabel's lips again curled at this. " Has he offered you Mr. Hannaway's place?" she said. Hayward at once understood the taunt ; but if she had wished to regain her power over him, she lost more at that moment than she had any idea of. " Yes," answered Hajrward, with a hard- ness of tone that Isabel heard; "so you see I am quite bound to his interests." " I wish you joy," said Isabel, almost scoffingly. " When do you begin your new duties ? " "It is not quite decided," said Hayward. BENEATH THE WAVE. 13 " But if your ladyship will permit me," he added, "I shall now take my leave.' I promised to join Sir George in the library." "Perhaps you will consider it part of your new duties ,to repeat this conversation there ? " asked Isabel, not without some anxiety in her voice, though she strove to say it half scoflSngly, half jestingly. "Lady Hamilton, why will you not believe me to be a gentleman ? " answered Hayward, with a ring of pride in his tone that made Isabel for a moment respect him. " I do believe you are one," she said, and she held out her hand to him. " Remember, I have trusted you," she added. But Hajrward made no reply. With a bow he left the room ; and Isabel felt anything but satisfied, after he was gone, with the result of their meeting. In the meantime, while this interview was actually going on, the dead man who that morning had been lying at Combe Lodge, had been carried to his grave. Sir George did not go to the ceremony. He 14 BENEATH THE WAVE. was expected to do so, but he gave no explanation for his absence. The late Mr. Hannaway's nearest relative had been sum- moned, and this gentleman (who was a cousin) had felt no small anxiety about the lawyer's will. But after the faneral was over, it became known he had left none. He had been cut off in the prime of life, many days in all likelihood lying before him, and had died and made no sign. His cousin who had come to the funeral and a sister of this cousin's were his nearest relations, and they therefore inherited his wealth. Combe Lodge was Sir George Hamilton's property, and Mr. Hannaway's relations were willing to accept a sum of money for the fiimiture and effects it contained. Thus Hajrward's new home was quite ready for him. Sir Greorge told him this during the day, and some final arrangements were then made between them. At dinner Isabel appeared, and the husband and wife met once more. Sir BENEATH THE WAVE. 15 George was cold, but not discourteous, in his manner to her. Before Hajrward, he told her that he had offered, and that Hayward had accepted, the appointment held by the late Mr. Hannaway. Isabel made no remark on receiving this piece of information. She still felt most bitterly indignant with Sir George — ^he had humi- liated her so deeply. But she did not choose that her household and her friends should suppose that she was on bad terms vrith her husband, and she was, therefore, outwardly civil to him. But Sir George made her understand, and she quite under- stood, that in future their lives were in reality to be apart. During the next few days Hayward remained at the Park, but he saw very little of Lady Hamilton. Once or twice she gave him the opportunity of speaking to her alone, but he did not avail himself of it. He shrank, in fact, from any more of those dangerous interviews which Isabel loved so well. She was a woman ever J. 6 BENEATH THE WAVE. playing with fire. The excitement, the danger of making men madly in love with her, pleased her better than the "dull routine," as she called it, of an honourable life. Besides this, Hayward was very much engaged. Mr. Hannaway's sudden death had left many things to arrange. Not that the late lawyer had neglected his business, but to manage the working de- tails of a great estate required both time and attention. So for. hours Hayward and Sir George used to sit in the library at Massam, im- mersed in leases and title-deeds. Sir George seemed to take a sort of interest in Hayward's work, and afforded him all the assistance in his power. Then, about a week after Mr. Hannaway's funeral, Hay- ward formally removed to Combe Lodge, and took up his residence in the comfortable, almost luxuriously furnished home, where the astute and clever lawyer had lived so long. BENEATH THE WAVE. 17 Sometimes the memory of the late tenant seemed to haunt Hayward when he first wcfnt there. He had a feeling that he was not alone in the silent rooms where the desA man's busy brain had schemed and thought. Other invisible presences, too, haunted him. A beautiful face that had tempted and betrayed the late occupant of these rooms, and which in turn was ready to tempt and then betray Hayward, came shadow-like there too often for his peace. But he reasoned against this delusion, and at last wisely determined to counteract it. There was another woman's face — a sweet, patient, tender face — ^that he sometimes tiiought of also. He had not forgotten his friend Hilda Marston. He had not loved this girl, nor had he permitted himself to love her. He had no means, nor pros- pect of keeping a wife during their acquain- Zc in £onL, and Wore he never entertained the idea. But it was different now. He had a settled home and a settled VOL. III. c 18 BENEATH THE WAVE. income, and he told himself that it would be well if he were married. This new tie would separate him more completely from Isabel. He was separated. In his utmost heart he acknowledged her utter unworthi- ness, but still she was a snare in his path. Gentle looks and confidential glances were now freely bestowed upon him when he went to Massam Park. Sir George's isolation from his ^wife made Hay ward's duty more difiicult to him. So the young man argued, and gradually he made up his mind to ask Hilda to be his wife. He had written to her twice while he had been in Yorkshire. In his first letter he had told her of Mr. Hannaway's tragic death, but, of course, he made no mention of the discovery resulting from it. Hilda had answered his letter, but she in turn made no allusion to her new relationship with Horace Jervis. She would tell him when he came back, she told herself. The girl was, in fact, uneasy and dissatisfied with herself She had accepted a man she did BENEATH THE WAVE. 19 not love, and though she was doing her best to follow her old friend Miss May's advice, and had begun to do so, she yet had by no means accomplished this duty. One morning after Hayward had been nearly three weeks at Massam, she received a third letter from him. He was coming to town for a day or two, he told her. He would call upon her at a certain hour that he named on the foUowing afternoon. There was nothing peculiar in this, and yet this letter strangely agitated Hilda. She was going to see Philip Hayward again ; she would have to tell him now that she was engaged to Horace Jervis. CHAPTER II. A GREAT SURPRISE. Hatward arrived at Hilda's lodgings on the following day, at the hour he had named in his letter. He went into the room where she was with a pleasant smile upon his face, and a look of unconscious prosperity about his whole appearance. Somehow he believed that the words he had come to say to Hilda would be welcome ones. He was no vain coxcomb, but he had an idea that she liked him, and that that liking would at his wish be easily kindled into love. He deeply respected Hilda, she was the best girl he had ever known, he thought, and would make the best wife. Then — since he had made up BEKEATH THE WAVE. 21 his mind to ask her — ^he had naturally pictured her in that capacity. He had thought of her moving about his home and brightemi^ his life. He had thought of her as standing between himself and temptation, and leading him with her gentle hands along the straight and narrow way. So he met her with pleasure, holding out his hand to her, and looking with affection and kindness into her face. It was only a troubled face that he saw. Hilda had grown thin and pale during his three weeks' absence. She was nervous and agitated also, and Hayward could not understand what ailed her. "And — and you are goiug to live at Massam ? " asked Hilda, as Hayward released the chill little hand that she had placed in his. " Yes," he answered smiling. " I shall be quite a swell now, Hilda. Combe Lodge is reaUy a pretty house, and well furnished — ^but it's rather lonely." "Yes," said Hilda. 22 BENEATH THE WAVE. *^ Sir George has been so kind to me," continued Hayward. " Fancy, Hilda, he has bought poor Hannaway's furniture, and made me a present of it. I wanted to pay for it, of course— but he is always bringmg up the old debt, as he calls it." " You mean his life ? " asked Hilda, looking up. "Yes — ^but that's long since now." "You see he does not forget it." " No, he is a splendid feUow, Sir George. Noble and generous to the heart's core." " I am glad you like him," said Hilda, with a sort of dejection in her tone that Hayward could not account for. " Indeed I do," he answered. " And how is little Ned?" he asked kindly. " He is asleep ;" said Hilda, and she sighed. "Come and look at him/' she added, and she led the way to a small bed- room through the sitting-room where they were, and going up to the bed in this room turned down the coverlet, and showed the sleeping face of her little brother. BENEATH THE WAVE. 23 " How changed he is I " said Hay ward, in a low tone, as his eyes fell on the pale and sharpened face of his late pupil. "Yes, PhiKp," said HHda; and she turned her head away. " Poor little lad ! " exclaimed Hayward, rather thoughtlessly, for the moment after he had said it he saw that Hilda had turned away her head to hide the tears that were gathering in her eyes. " Come, leave him to have his sleep out," said Hayward the next minute, and he took hold of Hilda's hand and led her back to the sitting-room, closing the bed-room door behind him. "You mustn't fret about him, Hilda," he said, kindly. " He'll pull through all right now, I dare say. He only wants a change." But Hilda's tears fell fast, in spite of Hayward's consoling words. • " Don't, dear Hilda," said Hayward, and he put his arm round the girl's drooping figure. "Don't, dear. Sit down here, I've got something to say to you." 16 BENEATH THE WAVE. playing with fire. The excitement, the danger of making men madly in love with her, pleased her better than the ^^dull routine," as she called it, of an honourable life. Besides this, Hayward was very much engaged. Mr. Hannaway's sudden death had left many things to arrange. Not that the late lawyer had neglected his business, but to manage the working de- tails of a great estate required both time and attention. » So for. hours Hayward and Sir George used to sit in the Ubrary at Massam, im- mersed in leases and title-deeds. Sir George seemed to take a sort of interest in Hayward's work, and afforded him all the assistance in his power. Then, about a week after Mr. Hannaway's funeral, Hay- ward formally removed to Combe Lodge, and took up his residence in the comfortable, almost luxuriously furnished home, where the astute and clever lawyer had lived so long. BBKEATH THE WAVE. 17 Sometimes the memory of the late tenant seemed to haunt Hayward when he first went there. He had a feeling that he was not alone in the silent rooms where the desA man's busy brain had schemed and tiliought. Other invisible presences, too, haunted him. A beautiful face that had tempted and betrayed the late occupant of these rooms, and which in turn was ready to tempt and then betray Hayward, came shadow-like there too often for his peace. But he reasoned against this delusion, and at last wisely determined to counteract it. There was another woman's face — a sweet, patient, tender face — ^that he sometimes tiiought of also. He had not forgotten his friend Hilda Marston. He had not loved this girl, nor had he permitted himself to love her. He had no means, nor pros- pect of keeping a wife during their acquain- tance in London, and therefore he never entertained the idea. But it was different now. He had a settled home and a settled VOL. III. c 16 BENEATH THE WAVE. playing with fire. The excitement, the danger of making men madly in love with her, pleased her better than the ^^dull routine," as she called it, of an honourable life. Besides this, Hayward was very much engaged. Mr. Hannaway's sudden death had left many things to arrange. Not that the late lawyer had neglected his business, but to manage the working de- tails of a great estate required both time and attention. » So for. hours Hayward and Sir George used to sit in the Ubrary at Massam, im- mersed in leases and title-deeds. Sir George seemed to take a sort of interest in Hayward's work, and afforded him all the assistance in his power. Then, about a week after Mr. Hannaway's funeral, Hay- ward formally removed to Combe Lodge, and took up his residence in the comfortable, almost luxuriously furnished home, where the astute and clever lawyer had lived so long. BENEATH THE WAVE. 17 Sometimes the memory of the late tenant seemed to haunt Hayward when he first went there. He had a feeling that he was not alone in the silent rooms where the d^td man's busy brain had schemed and tiiiought. Other invisible presences, too, haunted him. A beautiful face that had tempted and betrayed the late occupant of these rooms, and which in turn was ready to tempt and then betray Hayward, came shadow-like there too often for his peace. But he reasoned against this delusion, and at last wisely determined to counteract it. There was another woman's face— a sweet, patient, tender face — ^that he sometimes iiiought of also. He had not forgotten his friend Hilda Marston. He had not loved this girl, nor had he permitted himself to love her. He had no means, nor pros- pect of keeping a wife during their acquain- tance in London, and therefore he never entertained the idea. But it was different now. He had a settled home and a settled VOL. III. c it 22 BENEATH THE WAVE. *^ Sir George has been so kind to me," continued Hayward. " Fancy, Hilda, lie has bought poor Hannaway's furniture, and made me a present of it. I wanted to pay for it, of course — ^but he is always bringing up the old debt, as he calls it." ^^You mean his life?" asked Hilda, up. Yes — ^but that's long since now." You see he does not forget it." ^* No, he is a splendid fellow. Sir George. Noble and generous to the heart's core." " I am glad you like him," said Hilda, with a sort of dejection in her tone that Hayward could not account for. " Indeed I do," he answered. ^' And how is little Ned?" he asked kindly. '^He is asleep;" said Hilda, and she sighed. '^Come and look at him/' she added, and she led the way to a small bed- room through the sitting-room where they were, and going up to the bed in this room turned down the coverlet, and showed the sleeping face of her Httle brother. BENEATH THE WAVE. 23 " How changed he is I " said Hay ward, in a low tone, as his eyes fell on the pale and sharpened face of his late pupil. "Yes, Philip," said Hilda; and she turned her head away. " Poor Uttle lad ! " exclaimed Hayward, rather thoughtlessly, for the moment after he had said it he saw that Hilda had turned away her head to hide the tears that were gathering in her eyes. " Come, leave him to have his sleep out," said Hayward the next minute, and he took hold of Hilda's hand and led her back to the sitting-room, closing the bed-room door behind hun. "You mustn't fret about him, Hilda,'* he said, kindly. " He'll pull through all right now, I dare say. He only wants a change." But Hilda's tears fell fast, in spite of Hayward's consoling words. • " Don't, dear Hilda," said Hayward, and he put his arm round the girl's drooping figure. "Don't, dear. Sit down here, I've got something to say to you." 24 BENEATH THE WAVE. Hilda sat down where he told her, and then with some nervousness and agitation Hay ward proceeded: "You know, Hilda," he said, "that I once well, made a great fool of myself — ^about a woman?" Hilda looked hastily up, and her hce flushed. " Isabel Trevor ? " she said, inquiringly. She thought that he was going to tell her of some new trouble or grief that Isabel had brought upon him. "Yes, Isabel Trevor, now Lady Hamil- ton," answered Hayward, with an uneasy little laugh. "But, of course, that's all past and gone. She was only amusing herself with me— and I— weU, as I said before, made a fool of myself But I did not come here to talk about Lady Hamilton. I came to talk about our- selves, Hilda — in fact, my dear girl, I came to ask if you would marry me 1 " Haywafti blurted out the last few words very quickly and incoherently; but the BENEATH THE WAVE. 25 moment after he uttered them, Hilda gave a little cry as if of pain. "OPhiHp!" she said, "0 PhiUpI" and she put one of her hands over her face. ^'What is it, dear Hilda?" asked Hay- ward ; and he sat down beside her, and drew her towards him. " IVe got a home to offer you now, Hilda, you know," he continued, "and a fairly good income. The little lad can live with us — and I'll try to make you happy — '^ And Hayward bent his face down to kiss Hilda's lips. But with a sob the girl turned away her head, and hid it on his breast. Don't, don't, you must not," she said. Philip, this cannot be." "Why?" asked Hayward. "Do you mean that you cannot marry me?" " Philip, Philip ! " said Hilda, now crying bitterly, "why did you not tell me this before — ^not until it is too late?" " Too late ! " repeated Hayward, in genuine surprise. U ' 26 BENEATH THE WAVE. "Yes, yes," sobbed Hilda, still with her head upon his breast. " I have promised to marry some one else 1 have pro- mised to marry Horace Jervis." " Horace Jervis ! " said Hayward ; and he bit his lips, and his face grew a little pale. •' It was for the sake of the child," wept Hilda. " I could get no pupils and this generous man " Hayward rose from her side as Hilda said this, and began hastily pacing the room. "When was this arranged?" he said presently, stopping before her. "The day ^you went to Massam," answered Hilda, trying to compose herself. " I meant to write to tell you but but 1 could not." As Hilda said this, her too-evident dis- tress deeply affected Hayward. "My poor girll" he said, laying his hand on her shoulder, "my poor girlt And if " BENEATH THE WAVE. 27 Hilda turned her wet face round and rested it against the hand on her shoulder. "And if I had spoken be&re?" said Hayward, pityingly. "I never thought you cared for me," half whispered Hilda. " I knew, all about Isabel Trevor 1 feared perhaps that you still " " No," said Hayward, hastily ; " no. She is the wife of a man I am indebted to in a thousand ways— the wife of a man who completely trusts me. No, she is nothing — must be nothing to me." Yet Hilda heard his voice sharpen as he made the denial. Still the words were very grateful to her ears. Isabel was nothing to him, then — ^thank God at least for that. "I am glad," she said, simply. ''And — and — Philip — could it have been — " He understood what she meant. Had she been free to marry him she would have done so. He looked, in fact, in the girl's face, and knew that she loved him. 28 BENEATH THE WAVE, " There is nothing but troubles, I think," he said, with some bitterness. He was thinking how he had come to town, ahnost sure of winning Hilda for his wife. How the girl's heart was his, and yet who stood between them ? His friend. The best and noblest man he ever knew. The man who had befriended and succoured him; who had watched his mother's last hours, and to whom with her parting breath she had confided his future life. "Be a brother to him," she had said; and truly Jervis had been a brother to him. " He must not know this, Hilda," said Hayward, after a moment's reflection. " We — we must bear it for his sake." "Yes," answered Hilda; and her head fell. Ah, it was not so bitter to him I A disappointment, indeed, but not a heart- breaking one. Hilda knew this, as she sat there silent and sad. He had liked her — would have married her — ^but his life would go on smoothly without her, while hers would always seem an empty void. BENEATH THE WAVE. 29 " I should have told you," said Hilda, presently, for the silence between them was becoming very painfiil. "Yes," said Hayward, but still he kept thinking. He was indeed greatly surprised. Horace Jervis ! A man who seemed to have put away earthly things, and lived but for heavenly ones. And Hilda ! Why had she done it ? He forgot the long strain on the poor girl's endurance; forgot the bitter necessity for daily bread, not only for herself, but for the hapless little brother thrown upon her hands. "Well, Hilda," he said, after a few moments' thought, "I trust that you will be happy." These seemed cruel words somehow to Hilda. Her face flushed and her eyes grew dim again. Yet Hayward did not Teaa them unkindly. He was disappointed, per- haps, that Hilda ^should have done what she had done, and yet he felt that it was unjust of him to be so. "Life is so difficult," said poor Hilda, 30 BENEATH THE WAVE. presently. **I — I tried to do what I thought best." "And which no doubt is best, Hilda," said Hayward, more generously. ^'What- ever are my own feelings on the matter, I know very well you have chosen for the best." But Hilda only sighed and looked at him pitifully as he said these words. *'We must forget this," continued Hay- ward; and he held out his hand to her. •'God bless you, Hilda — God bless you, my dear, dear girl !" Yes, God bless her, he was thi nk ing with all his heart. She was a sweet girl, and would make a good, sweet, loving wife. He had missed his chance; and Hayward began to realize at that minute that Hilda was, in truth, very dear to him. They did not say many words to each other after this. Neither of them for a moment contemplated breaking the bonds that bound them to Horace Jervis. He was the friend of one, the betrothed of the other. To both he had ever acted most BENEATH THE WAVE. 31 nobly and generously, and for no selfish feeling were they going to grieve his unsel- fish heart. " He must never know this," Hayward had said, and HMa's own sense of right had echoed these words. Her life had been hard, and it would remain hard. She had tried to do her duty, but it seemed more difficult when she knew that her heart's desire had been so nearly within her grasp. After Hayward left Hilda he felt very much downcast. He wandered about the streets until it was nearly dusk, and then he went to call upon Horace Jervis. He was not at home. "Some of his sick sent for him, sir," said the maid-servant who opened the door, " but the housekeeper expects him back directly, so will you come inr Hayward went in, and sat down, and waited for his friend. Half-an-hour or so passed, and then the hard-working curate returned. He looked pale and fagged, but his face lit up with pleasure when he saw 32 BENEATH THE WAVE. Hayward, and with great cordiality he held out his hand. " My dear fellow I This is indeed a pleasure," said Jervis ; Hayward felt thank- ful at that moment that his hand-clai^ was not like that of Judas. They had, of course, many things to tell each other. Hayward's change in Hfe; his brightening prospects^ and his new home were all discussed. Then, with a smile, Jervis told him what he believed to be his news. "I am going to surprise you, I am sure," he said. " You did not think I was a man likely to marry, did you ? " "I have heard your news," answered Hayward, trying his best to look uncon- cerned and happy. "You are going to marry one of the best of women — ^you are going to marry Miss Hilda Marston." " Yes I "Who told you ? Ah I see you have been there. Hilda told me that she would tell you when she saw you yes, I am going to marry." BENEATH THE WAVE. 33 Horace Jervis said the last few words thoughtfully. He loved Hilda. She was the sweetest gift of God, he thought, and as such he prized her. Was he worthy of this crowning blessing, he would ask him- self — this sweet helpmate sent to cheer his earthly journey ? No truer and purer love, in fact, was ever given to any woman than the love that Horace Jervis gave to HUda. And yet she loved him not. That is, she loved him in one way — she honoured and esteemed him above all men ; but her love — ^the love a woman gives sometimes too readily — ^had been given before Hilda Marston saw Horace Jervis. She had given it imasked, and too late she knew that she could not recall it. But of this Jervis had no suspicion. It never occurred to him to be jealous. Hilda was going to be his wife, and with plea- sant happy words, he told Hayward of iheir arrangements. "But that poor little fellow, Ned, is VOL. III. B 34 BENEATH THE WAVE. the stumbling-block," he said. *^We would be married at once if lie were only better. But Hilda won't leave him, even for a few days, as he is. The doctors tell me he wants a change, and I must see about getting him away." "Why not let me take hun down to Massam ? " said Hayward. " The air is splendid there. Poor Mr. Hannaway's late housekeeper is staying on with me, and she is a kind, motherly sort of person, I think, and you may be sure I will look after him." **Why, I think this is a splendid idea," said Jervis. "Will you really take him for a week or so, Hayward ? " " 111 be delighted to have him," answered Hayward. " Then I'll settle it with Hilda, to-night," said Jervis. " Or will you go with me to see her soon, Philip, and then we can both persuade her ? " But Hayward declined this offer. He only sent a kind and pressing message to BENEATH THE WAVE. 35 Hilda to be allowed to take lier little brother back with him to Combe Lodge. " But you must go and see Hilda again, of course, before you leave town," said Jervis. '*You know, Philip, she regards you with the affection of a sister. Indeed, at one time," he added, smiling, " I thought that you two would make a match of it — ^but I am not jealous now." "No," answered Hayward, with rather a grim smile, "you see, you are the happy man." CHAPTER III. THE OLD LOVE AND THE NEW. Hilda at first was .rather unwilling for little Ned to leave her ; he was so fretful and so weak. But she knew that he re- quired change, and she felt that he would be safe with Hayward. It was so kind of Hayward, too, she thought, to think of this. As for little Ned, he brightened up at the very idea. " I've no doubt Hayward has a pony," said Jervis, diplomatically. Now a pony had been the crowning desire of Ned's life when he was strong and well. .Even now the mention of a pony brought the colour back to the pale, thin cheeks, and a longing to the weary, fretful little BENEATH THE WAVE. 37 heart. The terrible attack of fever through which this poor child had dragged had completely changed him. From being a fine, healthy, rosy boy, he had become a weak, drooping invalid, with a threatened disease of the hip joint. He would be a great charge for anyone to take him, Hilda knew ; but she could depend upon Hay- ward. He was accustomed to boys for one thing, and for another he had always been fond of little Ned. So, after thinking it over, Hilda gave her consent. But she did not give her consent to another proposition that Horace Jervis made. This was that they should be mar- ried when little Ned was away. No, Hilda would not hear of this. "Wait until the child comes back better," she said; and Horace Jervis yielded to her wish. But he told Hayward that he had asked Hilda to marry him when Ned was away. Hayward felt that he changed colour when he heard this; and he felt (he could not help it) no small relief when 38 BENEATH THE WAVE. he heard also what Hilda's answer had been. He knew this when he went to see her about making arrangements for little Ned's returning with him to Combe Lodge. They both were embarrassed when they met, but Hilda was the most so. She could scarcely, indeed, falter out the words of thanks that she had meant to say. "What nonsense !" said Hayward kindly, in reply to these faltering words. "Of course I shall be pleased to have him, if you think it will do him good." Ned came into the room presently, and declared that he was both ready and anxious to go. "Mr. Jervis says you have a pony, sir?" he said; and Hayward laughed at the question. "What colour do you prefer, Mr. Ned?" he said. "I have a choice of ponies, so you may as well fix." He meant to buy the lad one, and he did so. Master Ned had his choice of many BENEATH THE WAVE. 39 ponies, and finally decided on a handsome dun animal, of such frisky tendencies and high spirits that poor little Ned was totally imable to manage or even to mount him. In fact, for the first few days he was at Combe Lodge he was too weak to attempt to ride at all, and when he did so, Hayward was obliged to borrow a work-worn, meek, and rather dilapidated looking pony from one of the farmers near, on which he might try his skill. The dim pony was as yet only kept to be looked at, but this was an unfailing source of pleasure to Master Ned. Hayward was leading the pony in use (the farmer's) one day down a lane near the Park, Ned riding it, when Lady Hamilton, driving a splendid pair of ponies, suddenly passed them. Hayward took off his hat, and Lady Hamilton pulled up her ponies almost at the same moment. Then, when Hayward approached the carriage, Isabel inquired at once who Ned was. "Who is your little friend?" she said. "A small brother ? " 40 BENEATH THE WAVE. " I have neither brother nor sister," an- swered Hay ward, smiling, "This young gentleman is an old acquaintance of yours. Don't you remember Ned Marston?" "Ned Marston!" repeated Isabel. "Do you mean Miss Marston's little brother who was at Mr. Irvine's school at Sanda?" "Yes, even so," replied Hayward. "He has been ill, poor little lad, and that's what has changed him so much." And Hayward looked kindly at Ned, who grinned and wriggled uneasily on his saddle as Hay- ward made these allusions to him. " And where did you pick him up ? " asked Isabel, also looking at Ned. " In London," said Hayward. " He was Uving with his sister there." " And how is Miss Marston ? " continued Isabel. " How is she getting on ? " "She is very well," answered Hayward gravely. " Ah — ^well, good-bye. Master Ned. He looks as if he wanted feeding up, doesn't he ? So, Mr. Hayward, mind you give BENEATH THE WAVE. 41 him plenty to eat." And with a smile Isabel waved her driving whip, and the next moment had driven on, while Hayward proceeded — rather thoughtfully — again to lead Master Ned's pony. The next day Isabel absolutely drove up to Combe Lodge. Ned, who was gazing out of the library window, announced her arrival to Hayward. "Here's Lady Hamilton, sir," he cried. " And oh ! my, what a big hamper one of the grooms is dragging out ! " On hearing this, Hayward at once went to the hall door, and found Ked's informa- tion had been substantially correct. A big hamper was standing on one of the mats outside the vestibule, and to this Lady Hamilton pointed with a smile. "That's for Master Ned Marston," she said. " It contains grapes, port wine, and jelly, and all sorts of things to make him fat. Don't be oflFended. I don't suppose you starve him," she added, as Hayward's face, perhaps naturally, assumed a look of 42 BENEATH THE WAVE. not very agreeable surprise. *^Boys, you know, require stuffing; so, please, let him stuff himself." " Your ladyship is very good," said Hay- ward, hesitatingly, and turning very red. "Yes, I thought it was good of me," answered Isabel, with a little laugh, * ^ But, you see, I knew the child long ago, and was sorry to see him look so thin. It was good of you, too," she added, " to have him down here. And now I mean to be very good,'^ she went on, " and to take you and Master Ned out for a drive." '* Thank you, but I think ," said Hayward, endeavouring to make an ex- cuse. "Don't think — ^but come," said Isabel ; and she looked into his face in her old, bright way. Oh, weak man ! Hayward had sworn to be on his guard against this woman ; had sworn to be true and loyal in look, and thought, and deed, to his friend Sir George ; yet he yielded to that siren glance. He seated himself by Isabel's side ; Master Ned BENEATH THE WAVE. 43 taking his place by the groom. He sat and listened while Isabel strove to resume her old sway over him. She ignored then: stormy meeting at Massam, before Hayward went to town. She ignored that she had been found out, and that Hayward knew that he had once worshipped a false idol. She was beautiful, and she depended on the power that beauty gave her over the hearts of men. Hayward felt he was being made a fool of, and yet he did not take himself away. Presently they passed Sir George on the road, who was walking vdth his head cast down, and when he looked up and his eyes met Hayward's, Hayward felt his face flush. "Are you not going to stop?" he said to Lady Hamilton quickly. "Don't you see Sir George?" " Of course I see him," answered Isabel, " but I see no necessity for stopping. And with a little careless nod, she passed her husband, while Hayward felt excessively 44 BENEATH THE WAVE. uncomfortable to be in the position in which he found himself. Isabel, on the contrary, was rather gratified that Sir George had seen them. He had humiliated her so deeply that she longed to himiiliate him. He had brought Hayward here — ^her old lover — and had made a confi- dant of this young man about her, and so Isabel had vowed that she would win Hay- ward over to her side. So she was very gracious to him, but Hayward was uneasy after this meeting with Sir George. He began thinking of Hilda Marston, even as he sat by Isabel, and wishing that he had known of her pure love long ago. Hayward, in fact, was not a man who could be happy in any crooked or unlaw- ful path. "Master Ned," said Lady Hamilton, presently, looking round and addressing Ned Marston, " would you like to see your sister here V " Hil r said Ned. " Yes, of course, but I can't. >i. » BENEATH THE WAVE. 45 " IVe been thinking of something," con- tinued Lady Hamilton, now speaking to Hayward. " I always liked Miss Marston. I think I shall ask her here to stay with me a little while." Hayward was silent. "It would be a change for her, wouldn't it?" proceeded Isabel. "And also relieve you of the responsibility of looking after our young friend there ? What is her ad- dress ? I will write to her to-day." Hayward gave Hilda's address, and then said, with some hesitation : " I should tell you, perhaps, that Miss Marston is engaged to be married." " Indeed ! To whom, then ? If it's to some common man^ I don't think I could quite stand that." " It is to a Mr. Jervis. He is a clergy- man and a gentleman — ^and the best man I ever knew," answered Hayward, gravely. " Oh, indeed ! Miss Hilda hasn't done badly for herself, then ?" said Isabel. "No," said Hayward briefly. 46 BENEATH THE WAVE. " In that case there can be no objection to my asking her," continued Isabel. " I will ask her to stay ^let me see ^two months." Isabel meant until the baby she expected was bom. Ned Marston had put Hilda into her head, and she had been thinking that she would like to have her old com- panion beside her when she was ill. Hilda was sensible and agreeable, she remembered, and would not mind sitting all day in a sick room, and this was the treat that she intended for her old friend. Hayward heaxd of this proposed invi- tation with very mingled feelings. He would be glad to see Hilda again, and yet " She may not come," he reflected the next moment; but he was not angry when he heard that Hilda had accepted Lady Hamilton's invitation. Hilda, in truth, was glad to do so. She shrank from fulfilling her engagement at once, and living in lodgings meant money BENEATH THB WAVE. 47 and weary anxiety. Her old friend Miss May still dared not ask her to stay with her on account of her school-girls, and Hilda was lonely without little Ned. So she wrote and accepted Lady Hamilton's invi- tation; and her sister Marian, when she heard of this, thought that there never was such a lucky girl as Hilda. To be engaged to be married and to go and stay at Massam Park seemed two very grand things to poor Marian, toiling in her close schoolroom. Yet, Hilda was anything but happy. She WM co-^oe-MA^ We il could not love her lover. Horace Jervis used to wonder at the humility of her manner to him ; at the subdued and touching gentle- ness with which she obeyed his slightest wish. All except one. She would not yet fix the time of her marriage, and Jervis felt that it would be selfish to urge her to do so against her will. Thus Hilda went to Massam. She could not help thinking, as she travelled there, of her last visit — of the squire's proposal 48 BENEATH THE WAVE. and Hay ward's despair. Everything was so changed now. Isabel was a wife, the squire married, she was engaged, and Hayward Hilda sighed deeply when she thought of Hayward. His life had been so full of trouble. Had things been different he might have been happy now. Did Hilda find herself picturing that happiness ? The pleasant country home which was his, and the fond wife to watch his coming ? With a deeper sigh she tried to turn away from the contemplation of that forbidden scene. Life (as she told Hayward) was for her very difficult and hard to understand. Lady Hamilton received her kindly. Isabel wished Hilda to stay some time with her, and she was also, in a certain cold way of her own, glad to see her old companion. She drove her ponies to the station to meet Hilda, and altogether re- ceived her more agreeably than Hilda had expected. "You have heard about my fathers absurd marriage, of course?" said Isabel, BENEATH THE WAVE. 49 after the first greetings between the two ladies were over, and Hilda found herself seated by Lady Hamilton's side. "Yes," answered Hilda, with a smile. "I was furious about it," continued Isabel, "and indeed for that matter I am still. Ridiculous old man ! I have got into no end of trouble too about it." "How is that?" asked Hilda. "Well, I was in such a rage," replied Isabel, "that I tried to prevent it, and wrote an anonymous letter to my father to tell him about the Featherstones. I told Mr. Hannaway this— you remember Mr. Hannaway, don't you ? And he kept some foolish letters about it, and when he was kiUed Sh- George found these letters, and he and I have hardly spoken since." Hilda cast down her eyes. She, in fact, knew not what to say. It was a new experience in her life to hear a wife speak as Isabel did« "And how do Mr. Trevor and his VOL. III. E 50 BENEATH THE WAVE. young wife get on ? " presently asked Hilda. " I'm told its simply sickening," answered Isabel. "It's 'My dear Lucinda/ 'My dearest Lucinda>' every time he speaks to her." "Well, that is very well at any rate," said Hilda. "Can't say I agree with you," said Isabel. "I could forgive the girl for marrying an old man, as they were so horribly poor, but to pretend to love him is really too much." "Perhaps she is grateful to him," said Hilda, slowly. She was thinking of her own engagement ; was thinking Lucinda Featherstone had not acted very differently to herself. " And Patty ? " she asked presently. " Is she at home?" " She's at Sanda. She lives apparently at Sanda, and Mr. Featherstone too. Truly a nice family to be connected -with ! " And Isabel lashed her ponies in her irritation. BENEATH THE WAVE. 51 Mr. Trevor and his daughter had, in fact, never met since his second marriage. Socially, Isabel now held herself far above the Featherstones, and she had rejected all advances made by Mr. Featherstone and Patty with the scantest courtesy. But the old man and his young wife were on better terms than Isabel and her husband. When Mr. Trevor said he would marry Lucinda Featherstone in defiance of all anonymous enemies, Lucinda promised herself that the squire should never re- pent his generosity. And he never had. Lucinda was a quick girl, and she did her best lo make him happy. Mr. Trevor was proud of his handsome young wife, and the old Hall at Sanda was now by no means an unhappy home. At Massam, on the contrary, Hilda Marston was shocked to find the terms on which the husband and wife lived. Sir George, proud, reserved, and at one time passionately enamoured of Isabel, now re- garded her apparently with contempt and 52 BENEATH THE WAVE. indifference. She had wounded him in his tenderest feelings. He had given up so much for her; he had cast his whole heart at her feet, and all the while (as he told himself) she had been mocking and jibing at him to a man of totally inferior position to himself ! Truly the iron had entered into his soul on the day when he had read her letters to Mr. Hannaway. Had he loved her less he could have forgiven her more easily. As it was he could sometimes scarcely restrain the burning words of anger which rose on his lips when he met her careless and defiant glance. So there was not love in the house, but the "stalled ox and contention." Isabel was bitterly mdignant with Sir George for humi- liating her in the eyes of Hayward, and made no attempt at reconciliation, even if it had been possible. But she tried (as we have seen) to win back Hayward. She could do this more easily when she had Hilda staying with her, as little Ned served BENEATH THE WAVE. 53 as a connecting link between Combe Lodge and the Park. Thus it happened that Hayward was constantly thrown into very dangerous com- pany. Had Hilda accepted him, he told himself, he need have been afraid, but Hilda had not accepted him. Nay, the poor girl was now trying hard to do her duty. She had no soft looks for Hayward; no confidential words. She was at war with her own heart, and even unnecessarily cold in her manner to her old friend. She saw, too, that the former infatuation with which he had regarded Isabel Trevor was not quite ended. This made her miser- able, jealous, and uneasy, and at times ftdl of anger with Hayward. One day this feeling suddenly overcame her, and she spoke to him some sharp words of reproach. The three were together in the conserva- tories when this happened ; Isabel, as usual, coquetting and toying with her flowers. Pre- sently Hilda saw her give a rose to Hay- 54 BENEATH THE WAVE. ward, and saw also the maimer in which he received it. Then by-and-by, Hayward approached Hilda, and plucking another rose held it towards her. "WiU you have it, Hilda?" he said. " No 1 " she answered, sharply, turning her flushed face round, and looking at him: "why do you offer it to me ?" "Because- " began Hayward, " Mr. Hayward," interrupted Hilda, with heaving breast and flashing eyes, "I had a fidend once that that I behoved would have died sooner than he would have acted £U3 you are doing now 1 " " What do you mean ?" asked Hayward, glancing at Isabel, who, however, was too far from them to hear what they were saying. " I have not forgotten," continued Hilda, passionately, "when the woman you are so friendly and familiar with to-day drove you away from her miserable and broken- hearted ! Yes, you know what she is — ^a wife— a married woman— and yet " "HUda, you are aa old Wend," said BENEATH THE WAVE. 55 Hayward, with some sternness, " but if any one else had said such words to me — " " You know they are true," retorted Hilda, in her jealous passion and indignation. But at this moment Lady Hamilton called out to them. "What are you quarreUing about?" she cried, from the end of the conservatory. " You remind me of Snap and Jerry over a bone, your expressions are both so warlike." " Miss Marston is taking the privilege of an old friend, and giving me a lecture^" answered Hayward, trying to speak lightly, and approaching Lady Hamilton ; but, with an indignant glance, Hilda turned away and left the conservatory. "What has that young woman been saying?" asked Isabel, when she saw that ahe and Hayward were alone. "Ahl — ^you need not tell me," she con- tinued, languidly. " Poor Hayward ! so she has been scolding you, has she, be- cause you have still some little friendship and regard for me ? " CHAPTER IV. A SON AND HEIR. Hayward was angry with Hilda after the scene in the conservatory, and yet in his heart he acknowledged that he had de- served her rebuke. He went home almost immediately afterwards, and began to call himself to account for his folly. Yet he found himself making excuses for Isabel. Sir George was so cold and hard to her, she was so young and beautiful. It was the old story — the siren voice chanting on the shore, and the mariner drifting into danger as he listened to the too- enchanting sounds. But if Hayward were disturbed after their brief wrangle in the' conservatory BENEATH THE WAVE. 57 Hilda was almost completely overwhelmed with emotion. The poor girl was scarcely- alone when she recalled with bitter self- humiliation what she had said. How utterly ungrateful she must seem to him, she thought. Had she forgotten in her jealous anger that Hayward had saved her and little Ned absolutely from starving in London ? Had she forgotten his con- stant friendship and generosity to her, and how, the moment that he was in a posi- tion to do so, he had asked her to be his wife ? Hilda hid her face and cried bitterly as she remembered these things. What must he think of her ? she thought ; and Hayward no doubt at that moment felt considerable irritation on the sub- ject. But his anger faded away when he saw Hilda the next day. There was no mis- taking the look of pain and suffering imprmted on her face. She was walking on one of the roads near Combe Lodge when he encountered her, and with much 58 BENEATH THE WAVE. nervousness and hesitation she asked if she could speak a few words to him. " Certainly," answered Hayward. He was riding, but he dismounted at once; and putting his arm through his horse's bridle, prepared to walk by Hilda's side. It chanced, however, at that moment, that a violent shower came on, and in common courtesy Hayward could but oflfer Hilda the shelter of his roof. "Come, Hilda," he said, smiling, as she hesitated; and after a moment's thought she followed him into his house, and was of course received with marks of great joy by little Ned. But Hilda was too much agitated to respond very cordially to her little brother's signs of affection. She sat down by the library window and looked at the beating rain. Presently Hayward came and stood beside her. " What a shower !" he said. " It's well you've found shelter, Hilda." "Yes," she answered. She was not BENEATH THE WAVE. 59 thinking of the rain, nor the shelter, but how ungrateful she had been to the faithful firiend by her side. Hayward, watching her, saw a heavy tear steal down her cheek, and fall upon her knee. This touched him. "What is vexing you, Hilda?" he said kindly, m a low tone. HiL only looked at him in aoBwor. with her wet sad eyes. "Run, Master Ned," said Hayward the next monaent, "to Mrs. Watkins (this was the housekeeper) and tell her to send up some tea for your sister, and stay with her until it comes up. What is it, Hilda T again he asked when the boy left the room in obedience to his request. " I — I — am so sorry," began Hilda. " I said yesterday what I should not — I was vexed — I had better go away from Massam, I think." " But why ? " said Hayward. " Yes, Hilda," he continued, gravely. "You said yesterday what you should not," (as Hay- ward said that he put his hand kindly on 60 BENEATH THE WAVE. Hilda's shoulder.) "But I am quite ready to forgive you," he added, " if you will never say the same thing any more." Hilda was silent for a moment. She sat with her hot tears streaming down her cheeks, and with strong and varying emotions struggHng in her heart. Then, after a Uttle thought, she turned round and took Hayward's hand. " I will never say them again after to-day, Philip," she said; "but may I speak a few words to you now ? " "What will be the good, HHda?" he answered. " I know what you will say — *you made a fool of yourself once about Miss Trevor, take care you don't do it again about Lady Hamilton.' Isn't that it, Hilda? But do not be afraid," he added. "As I told you before you came here. Lady Hamilton is the wife of a man who honours me with his friend- ship." " But an unloved and unloving wife, PhUip," urged HHda. BENEATH THE WAVE. 61 •' That may be," answered Hayward (and these words of Hilda's were not unpleasant to his ears); "but she is his wife, I can never forget, under any cir- cumstances, what I owe to Sir George." Again Hilda was silent for a few mo- ments, and then after another Uttle men- tal struggle she continued : — " I 1 have no right, I know," she said. "It is only because I care so much that I speak. I can never re- pay you what I owe you, and it cuts me to the heart to see you again being deceived. Don't be angry, Philip, I must speak. Lady Hamilton is not a good woman. She does not love you, or I could forgive her she does not love her husband, and she will never " "Had we not better end this conver* sation, Hilda?" interrupted Hayward. "I have given you no cause to say what you are doing, and Lady Hamilton has given you no cause." " Oh ! why do I care ? why do I care ?" 62 BENEATH THE WAVE. said Hilda, rising suddenly, and beginning to pace the room with uneven, restless steps. " Why did we ever meet, Philip ? " she went on wringing her hands, ^'for it hns caused me nothing but bitter pain." **' I 1 am grieved, Hilda," said Hayward ; " but what have I done ? " ''Nothing! I know you are not to blame," continued poor Hilda. "I got to care for you without any fault of yours. I saw you wasting your heart on Isabel Trevor, and I could not put out my hand to save you and then ^when you knew " "You tried to comfort me, Hilda," said Hayward, following the girl's restless steps, and putting his hand through her trembling arm; "and you did do so, my dear. We are both very unhappy, Hilda," he went on gently. " If you could have married me, I would have tried not to cost you any pain. I would have loved you very dearly, Hilda- but as it is not to be '' BENEATH THE WAVE. 63 "No " said Hilda, but that renun- ciation was very bitter to her. More bitter than it had been in London; more bitter now when she had seen Hayward every day; when she felt that if she could marry him he would be- come a wiser and happier man. " Let us at least remain friends, Hilda 1 '* said Hayward. " It is good for me to have such fnends as you and— Jervis." "Yes," answered Hilda, slowly, "he is a good man." "A very good man ^and and, my dear, let me think sometimes that you — a good woman like you — once cared for me. Don't cry, Hilda. Jervis is like gold where I am dross. When I am with Jervis I always feel somehow a^ I do when I look at the stars." "0, Philip!" " His heart is half in heaven, Hilda. That is why sometimes I grudge you to him, for no woman wiU ever be to him the most absorbing interest of his life." 64 BENEATH THE WAVE. But here Master Ned once more made his appearance, speedily followed by Mrs. Watkins and the tea-tray, and the con- versation, therefore, between Hayward and Hilda ended. But it made a great im- pression upon Hayward. He went less to the Park after it, and kept out of the way as much as he could of Lady Hamilton's beautiful face. She also, as weeks went on, became more subdued and quiet. For the first time in her life she began to feel fear. She had never been used to be ill, and she dreaded the time when her child was to be bom. Hilda became of some use and comfort to her now. But Isabel was impatient and weary. She hated children, she told Hilda, and did not want to be troubled with them. She had, in fact, no motherly instincts. She could not understand the feeling that prompts the bird to build her nest; that makes the untamed brute return to die by the side of its wounded young. BENEATH THE WAVE. 65 But the day came at last, and an heir was bom to Massam. The gloomy master of the Park heard the news without much sign of emotion. "What! a boy?" he said to the head nurse, who had hurried down to be the first to tell the glad tidings, expecting a very handsome gratuity for her trouble. "I wish it had been a girl." " A girl. Sir Greorge ! " exclaimed the woman in utter surprise. "What 1 would you not rather have an heir like the little beauty that has just been bom ? " But Sir George made no answer. He took no notice of the expectant bows and smiles of the head nurse, and very little of the more courtly congratulations of the eminent doctor who had been summoned from town to attend the case. "They are both doing well, are they not?" he asked. " Yes," answered the great doctor, " Lady Hamilton and your infant heir are as well as I can possibly expect." VOL. HI. F €6 BENEATH THE WAVE. " I am glad," said Sir George, briefly ; but he placed a sufficient sum in the doctor's hand to more than make up for his scant words. Later in the day Hayward entered the library. " Well, Sir Greorge," he said, holding out his hand, "let me congratulate you. I hear an heir has been bom to Massam." "A son has, at least," answered Sir George, coldly ; and Hayward could not help wondering at his manner and his words. CHAPTER V. FIXING THE DAY. Hilda Marston had been about nine weeks at Massam^ when one morning Hayward received a letter from his friend, Horace Jervis. It was as foUows :— "My dear Philip, — I hear from Hilda that the little heir, whose appearance has been so anxiously looked for, has arrived, and that her friend. Lady Hamilton, is doing well. Under these circumstances I am going to ask you to give me a bed for a day or two, as I would like to run down to see Hilda, and I see no reason now (as little Ned is so well) why our marriage should be longer delayed. Could Hilda 68 BENEATH THE WAVE. not be married from Massam ? This seems to me to be the most desirable course we could adopt. It would not be any trouble to Sir George and Lady Hamilton, as I am sure it will be HUda^s wish as well as mine to be married as quietly as possible. If little Ned could remain with you until our return from a short wedding tour, all Hilda s anxiety about him would be at rest. Write and tell me what you think, and if it will be convenient for you to put me up next Tuesday and for the three following days. — I remain, dear Philip, yours aflfec- tionately, "Horace Jeevis." Hayward felt very much disturbed after reading this letter. It gave him a kind of shock, and yet it contained no news. He knew this marriage was to be, but it seemed far off somehow until now. He had not seen much of Hilda lately. She had been, indeed, constantly with Lady Hamilton, and Lady Hamilton was very exacting. But he had thought of Hilda BENEATH THE WAVE. 69 a good deal. The girFs trembling and agitated confession of how much she had loved him had recurred to him again and a^^ain. Isabel had seemed further away, ^HUda nearer to him, during the weefa which had preceded the birth of Isabel's child. He had not forgotten that Hilda was engaged to Horace Jervis, but he had always remembered it with increasing aversion to the idea. Now it was brought to him face to fEice. Jervis was evidently coming to Massam to urge Hilda to fix the wedding day. Yet he could, not of course, refiise to receive him. His errand was a legitimate one, and Hayward was bound to treat him with all courtesy and kindness. Strange to say, he expected another guest also, just about the time Horace Jervis had proposed to come. This was no other than his old firiend, the Rev. Matthew Irvine. Many letters had passed between Combe Lodge and the parsonage of Sanda since Hayward had been in York- 70 BENEATH THE WAVE. shire. The parson s welcome loan of ten pounds had long since been returned out of Hayward's salary in London. But when he got to Combe Lodge he did not forget the Irvines. Mrs. Irvine's heart had been uplifted by a present of a very handsome dinner service, and to Miss Amelia Shadwell Hayward had forwarded one of the best pianos he could procure in town. To the parson himself he had sent a gold watch with a suitable inscription, and with no small pride the Rev. Matthew had donned his " boy's gift/' as he called Hayward's watch, and had laid the old silver tub, that he had worn all his life before, away for ever. And now he was going to visit Hayward. Mrs. Irvine had been invited also, but her stern sense of duty prevailed over her love of pleasure. " No, Matthew," she had said to her spouse, "you go and enjoy yourself, and I will stay and look after the school. But mind you, write and tell me exactly how Hayward looks. Don't be led away by his BENEATH THE WAVE. 71 having a colour, for that's often a sign of something wrong. I'd rather hear that he looked sallow, as that's natural to him, and I'm always doubtful of your fine com- plexions.^' "Very well, my dear," said the parson. " Anythmg else ?" " Sound him," said Mrs. Irvine, in her hollow tones. " I don't encourage the girL I tell Amelia Shadwell that the dinner service, and the piano, and the gold watch all meant nothing. That is, nothing parti- cular; but still they may. If Hayward has any fancy for Amelm Shadwell, it is our duty to encourage it." "But, my dear, I don't think he has," answered the parson meekly. "You mayn't think so, Matthew, but she may," answered Mrs. Irvine, oracularly. "At all events there's no harm done by sounding him." And the Rev. Matthew, having promised to sound Hayward, was permitted to prepare for his journey. 72 BCOATH THK WATK. to the genial faiaosL Not many pleasures had come in his waj, poor man, all his life; but this really was oneL To go and stay with his ''dear boy," when that dear boy had come in for some <^ the good things of this world, and to haTe a few days' rest and change, seemed a wonderful piece ci good forbme to the Bot. Matthew. . He could not resist bragging a little to the Squire of Sanda of Hayward's invi- tation« ''You see prospeiily has not turned his head, Mr. Trevor," he said. "He has not forgotten his old friends." '^ I was pleased to hear that my son-in* law. Sir Greorge, had offered the late Mr. Hannaway's appointment to Mr. Hayward,'' said the squire, in his old pompous fashion. " Sir George, of course, owed this young man a good deal" "Yes,*' said the Rev. Matthew, with his humorous smile. " But he has now amply repaid this," continued the squire. '* My father-in-law, BENEATH THE WAVE. 73 Mr. Featherstone, informs me that the appointment is worth something like £1,000 a year. An excellent appointment !" The squire's family and the parson s were now on more intimate terms than formerly. Lucinda Featherstone had never been proud in her unmarried days, and she was not proud now. She was kind to Mrs. Irvine, and kind to Amelia. Indeed, Lucinda was. •doing her best to win the good- will of those* around her, and show her gratitude to her -elderly husband. She was gratefiil to him for his kindness to her father and sister. Graceless Antony Featherstone now spent a. good deal of his time at Sanda HaUL His debts and his duns couldn't very con- veniently follow him there. He had, more- over, to eat and drink of the best at another man's cost, and a good horse to ride on, imd plenty of game to shoot ; so what did Antony want more ? Nothing, he told him- self, and he was always telling Lucinda that she was the pride and darling of his lieart 74 BENEATH THE WAVE. Patty, too, almost always lived with her sister. Two lively young women trying to please him was a new experience in the home life of the squire, and he decidedly liked it. He was vain and pompous, but he meant well in his narrow way, and he was really fond of his young wife. " She had played her cards well," her father said ; but Lu had not only played well, but was a very pleasant and unassuming winner. She and Patty Featherstone knew, of course, all about the great lady at Massam Park. Lady Hamilton had all but cut her old friends, and never thought of invit- ing them to meet her new ones. But her mother-in-law, Lu, and her neighbour, Patty, still continued to know a good deal about her doings. They had heard the rumours about Mr. Hannaway's devotion, and it had come out somehow that as soon as the breath was gone from the late lawyer's body. Sir George had ridden over to Combe Lodge, and shut himself BENEATH THE WAVE. 75 up in the library ; and that since then the husband and wife had lived on bad terms. Isabel thought that she hid this, but she did not. Her maid had overheard Sir George speaking in a stern voice to her, when he had first returned from town, after Mr. Hannaway's death ; and the lady's maid had reported this in the servants' hall, and so the stormy interview and its upshot had crept out. When Lady Hamilton's child was born, most of her friends and neighbours knew that she and her husband were anything but friendly. The good-natured ones argued well at the birth of an heir : " This will make it all right," they said ; and the ill- natured ones sneered, and wished it might do so. But both the good-natured and the ill-natured came to congratulate Lady Ham- ilton of Massam. Isabel was a great lady still, even though Sir George might have some cause to be annoyed at her conduct. Some ten days after the little babe had 76 BENEATH THE WATE. made its advent, to take its share amid the lights and shadows of the world, Isabel was lying on a couch in her luxuriously furniahed dressing room. Hilda Marston was sitting near her, and was reading a novel aloud to her, when the cries of the newly-born child, who was in the adjoining bed-room, dis- turbed the mother. "Hear that little wretch!" said Isabel. "Do, Miss Marston, go and tell the nurse to take it at once to another room." Hilda rose to obey her command, and went into the bed-room, and directed the nurse to take the child away. *' Did my lady say that ? " said the nurse, casting up her eyes in horror ; for to her mind babies were the kings of earth, and everything ought to give way to their comfort and convenience. " Yes, the child disturbs her," said Hilda, bending down and kissing the little pinched red face, enclosed in embroidered flannel and lace frills. " Does it ? " said the nurse, but she said it BENEATH THE WAVE. 77 like an anathema. " Lady Hamilton would come to no good," she was thinking, " and deserved no good, after her unnatural con- duct, and we would see what would be the end of it." After all, the nurse was not far wrong. The woman who hears her baby cry un- moved is not a good woman, and will pro- bably — as the nurse thought — " come to no good." The heart must be hard and cold when no tender instinct thrills through it at a baby's trustftd touch. As Hilda was returning to the dressing- room after having delivered her message to the nurse, Isabel's lady's maid rapped at the door, and brought in several letters. There were five for Lady Hamilton, and one for Miss Marston, which, unlike the others, bore neither monogram nor crest. But Hilda knew the handwriting, and re- tired at once to one of the windows to read her letter. It was from Horace Jervis. A manly affectionate letter, in which he told her 78 BENEATH THE WAVE. he was coming to Massam on the following day, and that he hoped to prevail upon her to consent that their marriage might take place almost immediately. Hilda read thus far with quickened breath, but presently a burning flush spread over her face as she went on with the letter : — '* I told Hay ward," wrote Horace Jervis, " why I wished to come to Massam, and he has kindly invited me to stay with him. He will keep little Ned with him while we are away; so you, my dear one, may be quite sure that he will be well cared for. Do not let us wait any longer, dear Hilda. Lady Hamilton will, no doubt, give her permission that our quiet wedding may take place from her house, and Hayward will act as best man, if one should be required. But we need not many attendants to the altar, Hilda. If God's blessing goes with us, that will be enough. May it be with you, my Hilda, now and for ever ! " It was a solemn letter to receive — BENEATH THE WAVE. 79 serious and solemn. Hilda knew that Horace Jervis never doubted her as she read it ; that he beUeved her heart was as it should be, and that she would make him a loving as well as a faithful wife. With a deep sigh she restored the letter to its envelope, and as she did so, Isabel called out from the other end of the room. " What a sigh !" she cried. " I declare I feel the draught it made here. What has he done, this lover of yours ? Jilted you ? Parsons, you know, are always carry- ing on semi-religious sentimental flirta- tions with the young ladies of their con- gregations. * She works religious petticoats,' eh ? " And Isabel gave a little scoflSng laugh as she made the quotation. Hilda made no answer to this speech; but she rose from her seat by the window, and went and stood by the fire, near which Isabel's couch was placed. "Here's a lot of flattery and f nonsense," said Isabel, once more addressing her, and pointing to the various notes of congratula- 80 BENEATH THE WAVE. tions that she had just received, and which were lying on the table before her. '^There's just one worth having though, for it's from the handsomest man I know — Hugh Warrington." "I think I remember him," said Hilda. " He is Mrs. Woodford's brother, is he not ?" " Her half-brother, and the coldest, hand- somest, and most fascinating man I ever saw." Again Hilda made no remark. Then presently she said, with some hesitation: "Lady Hamilton, Mr. Jervis is coming here to-morrow." "Is he really?" said Isabel. "Well, you are quite delighted, I suppose ?" "He is going to stay with Mr. Hay- ward," continued Hilda. " Ah, indeed ! Well, I shall be pleased to make his acquaintance. Mr. Hayward tells me he is a very gentlemanly man." "Yes," said Hilda, with rather a sad smile. BENEATH THE WAVE. " 81 " When do you talk of getting married T asked Isabel. Hilda hesitated and blushed. "A brilliant idea has struck me," went on Isabel, before Hilda could well answer her question. " Why not get married here ?" We could arrange it in ten days or a fortnight, and it would make a little amuse- ment in these dull times. We could ask the Woodfords, for, of course, the Vicar would have to marry you, and I will ask Captain Warrington. I declare it would be great fun." But " began Hilda. My dear, spare me the *buts,' and it is *such a short time,' and so on, of the blushing bride. My advice to you is — get married when you can. Not many men would marry a girl entirely without money, like you." "No," said Hilda> "it requires some gen- erosity," and her face flushed as she spoke. She was thinking of Hayward. He, too, had asked her, though she had no money. VOL. III. G 82 BENEATH THE WAVE. God bless and keep him for his generous thought ! " I should think it does require some generosiiy," said Isabel. " I'm not given to match-making in general, but I think I shall try to arrange yours. I shall tell Mr. Jervis how much nicer it would be for you to be married from here than from a London lodging." ". That is what Mr. Jervis thinks himself — ^what he urges in this letter," said Hilda^ with just a little touch of womanly pride in her tone. " Then you don't say you are hesita- ting ?" asked Isabel. " Nonsense, my good creature! I will settle it all with the lover before I have been half-an-hour in his company. We shall have a wedding at Massam, and get up some Uttle gaiety for the occasion." " No, please don't," said Hilda, earnestly. "It is most kind of you to wish me to be married here, but don't have any com- pany if it is arranged so. Both Mr. BENEATH THE WAVE. 83 Jervis and myself would really dislike it." "Well, we shall see," said Isabel. And so she began planning and arranging everything in her own mind. The wedding became one of her fancies. When an idea took possession of her, she remained im- mersed in it for a while, and then another fancy succeeded. But when Horace Jervis arrived at the Park, on the following day, she was still full of the wedding, and determined that it. should take place at Massam. Hilda was very much agitated when she saw again the calm sweet face of the young man whose wife she had promised to become. She felt somehow as if she were guilty towards him. His perfect truthfulness, his serene faith in her, filled her heart with self-reproach. It seemed the greater wrong because he never suspected that her love was not entirely his own. Lady Hamilton received him with great courtesy, when he was presented to her. 84 BESEATH THK WATK. She was, indeed, impiresBed bj hk simple, yet dignified beaiing, and smiled her sweetest smiles daring die interview whidi took place between them. Yet she did not feel quite as mach at ease in his pres^ice as she expected. She had donned her most becoming dressing gown for the occasion, and was indeed fiur to look npon ; and yet, after Jerviss steady gaze had rested on her lovely &ce for a few minutes, something in its expression re- pelled him. Beautiful as Lady Hamiltcm was, tiie memory of Delilah's snareful charms rose once or twice hauntingly to the young clergyman's mind. '^ So you and my friend, Miss Hilda> contemplate what I consider the very rash act of matrimony?" said Lady Hamilton, smilingly, addressing Jervis, after they had talked together for some little time on ordinary subjects. "Yes," answered Horace Jervis; and he looked at Hilda, who turned her head slightly away. BENEATH THE WAVE. 85 " And when ? " continued Lady Hamilton. " I hope you don't think of having a long engagement^ for they are such wretched things?" *^ It is about this that I have taken the liberty of coming to Massam/' answered Jervis. "I most earnestly wish Hilda to marry me at once." "Quite right," said Isabel, with a little decisive nod of her head. "Miss Marston is an old friend of mine/' she continued the next minute, "and it will give both Sir George and myself great pleasure if she is married from Massam." After this it was all settled. It seemed to Hilda that she had no voice in the arrangement, but stood there with burning dieeks and beating heart, listening while Lady Hamilton and Jervis fixed every- thing between them. "My dear, the bride elect never speaks on these occasions," said Isabel, repressively, when Hilda once, in a faltering voice, ventured to make some objection. 86 BENEATH THE WAVE. Yes, it was all arranged. When Hilda and Jervis left Lady Hamilton's dressing- room, their wedding-day was fixed and their destiny sealed. It was to be in a fortnight from this time, Isabel settled, and the wedding dress was to be her gift. " May this be for your happiness, my dearest!" said Jervis, taking his promised bride in his arms, and kissing her cold cheek, when they were alone. But Hilda's tears fell fast in reply. "You are so good," she murmured, "far, far too good." She thought this many and many a time during the next few days. He was so good. Always thinking of her, and trying to make things easy and pleasant to her. He was not a man who cared for gay dress, or indeed ever noticed it ; but he sent Hilda a cheque for a hundred pounds on his return to town to buy her modest trousseau with, and the poor girl shed some bitter tears over the kindly tender words which accompanied this gift. BENEATH THE WAVE. 87 " I am not a rich man^ my dear one, you know, or I should have sent much more," he wrote. Ah ! he was rich, Hilda thought, rich in treasures that money could not buy. This was what filled Hilda with such con- stant self-reproach and pain. If he had been a shade less perfect; if he had been selfish, rough, or unkind to her, she could have borne it better. As it was, she felt as if she wronged him every time that the recollection of Hayward recurred regretfully to her heart. These were very unhappy days also for Hayward. Of course he heard all about the wedding, and the bridegroom's gift, and even the wedding dress. Isabel sent for him and told him about these things, and wondered to him what made the bride not appear elated at her good fortune. " I think she is a most lucky girl," she said to Hayward ; but Hayward made no answer to this opinion. He never saw Hilda. The girl shrank from him, and dreaded the idea of seeing 88 BENEATH THE WAVE. his face again after the time of her marriage was fixed with Horace Jervis. Sometimes Hay ward would ask himself impetuously if all this were right. Was it right thus to deceive Jervis? Far better tell him the truth, he would mentally argue, and let him decide. But then, again, the remem- brance of the complete unselfishness of Jervis's character rose before him. Hay- ward knew how he would decide. He would give up self. ** He is so good," Hayward also repeated to himself, as poor Hilda had done. They both owed him so much that their lips were bound to silence. But we can understand the struggle. Even Sir George noticed, and spoke both to Hayward and Isabel, about the change in Hilda's appearance. *' Is this marriage any arrangement of yours, Isabel ? " he asked of her, in the cold stem way in which he now habitually addressed his wife. " My good creature," answered Isabel, shrugging her shoulders and putting on BENEATH THE WAVE. 89 her grandest air, "what do you mean by any arrangement of mine ? Miss Marston was engaged when she came here, and had been engaged for some time; and Mr. Jervis came by her wish, I understand, to settle the exact time of their marriage." " Well, all I can say is," said Sir George, "she looks anything but happy. I never saw a girl so much altered." " Well, all I can say is, then, that she is a fool," said Isabel, contemptuously. " Mr. Jervis is a gentleman — is well off, and cer- certainly not ill-looking, and she has simply nothing to offer in return — not even beauty." " She is better without it," said Sir Gteorge briefly ; and he turned away. But he said something of the same sort to Hayward, and his words left a very painful impression on the young man's mind. "What is the matter with Miss Mars- ton?" he asked, addressing Hajrward, who was writing some business letters, for him in the Ubrary at the Park. "She looks so utterly wretched." 90 BENEATH THE WAVE. " I 1 do not know," answered Hajward hesitatingly ; but he made up his mind at that moment to try to see Hilda once more. He wrote a note to her to ask her if he could do so during the day. But before night came, a few ill-written and tear- stained lines were brought to him. *' I cannot see you, Philip ; I dare not. May Grod bless you ! " H. M." There was nothing more. In these brief words Hayward felt that she took leave of him. On his desk was lying an invitation to be present at her wedding. Lady Hamilton had carried out all her plans, and her favourite, the handsome guardsman, Captain Warrington, had written to his sister, the vicar s wife, to say that he would be down in Yorkshire on such a day, after receiving a private intimation of the approaching marriage from Isabel. BENEATH THE WAVE. 91 It wanted only a few days to the time when Hayward wrote to Hilda ; only a few days, and the girl who loved him so well was to be married to another man ! It was at least a very bitter reflection. True love is not lightly won nor lightly lost, and Hayward ^ felt that Hilda s love was very true. He would have left Massam for a time if he could have done so ; but it was not possible. His old friend Mr. Irvine waa still with him, and Jervis had written to ask him to put him up the day before the marriage. And then there was little Ned. Thus Hayward was forced to hide his feelings as best he could. They were any- thing but happy ones, but it was for Hilda he felt more than for himself, when he held out his hand to welcome her lover, the day before her wedding day! CHAPTER VI. THB WEDDING DAY. It was a wet and dismal morning (though in midsummer) on which HHda Marston was to be married. But the dull grey light that dawned so slowly did not awaken the bride. For hours Hilda had lain awake, and heard the clocks strike, and counted the time. One hour nearer, and then another ! Tick, tick, went the clocks ; beating, beating, Hilda's sad and aching heart. It was a solemn and sorrowful morning to her. Out- side the rain was driving and beating against the window-panes; inside, the girl was pray- ing and suffering, " O God ! help me to do right. O God ! help me never to wound or pain his generous heart ! " BKNBATH THE WAVE. 93 Such was her prayer, repeated again and again in the darkness ; repeated when the morning dawned and the dull light stole in. *' Help me to do right ! " It was a piteous cry, was it not, going up from the depths of a very true, tender, and unhappy heart? The same morning BLayward awoke with an almost intolerable sense of pain and annoyance. He got up and looked out and swore at the weather. Yet he would have felt equally disgusted if the sun had been shining. Everything had gone wrong, he thought, and Hilda — dear Hilda — ^he won- dered if she were thinking of him then ! No, not then. She was up now, and her face was very calm and pale. Isabel sent her head waiting woman to dress her, and this person knew her business well. Hilda made a very fair and graceful-looking bride in the tasteful costume that Isabel had provided for her. She had never been dressed thus before. She scarcely knew herself as she saw her reflection in the 94 BENEATH THE WAVE. cheval glass, in the long-trained and lace- trimmed skirts that was draped around her. " If only, Miss, you didn't look so pale," said the lady's maid, admiring her own handiwork, *'you would look lovely." "Well, I must be content to look pale, Ritson," answered Hilda, with a quiet smile, and she put her hand to her side as the spoke. There was a strange aching pain there. All night it had been there, and it was still there. It seemed to take Hilda's strength quite away, and she sat wearily down after the lady's maid had finished dressing her. "My lady will be coming to see you directly," said Ritson, as she took her leave, and so Hilda sat still and waited. Presently Isabel, dressed with all the perfect taste which was one of her attrac- tions, entered the room. The delicate blue silk and rich white lace in which she was robed became her fair skin and golden hair only too well. Never, Hilda thought, had BENEATH THE WAVE. 95 she seen her look so beautiful. She wore her diamonds^ and her little hands and slender throat were literally ablaze with the sparkling gems. " How do I look ? " she asked of Hilda ; and Hilda answered with all honesty that she had never seen her look so well. " That is right ! " said Isabel, with a gratified smile. "And you too look well," she added, glancing at the bride. "Yes, your dress becomes you ; Mr. Jervis has no reason to be ashamed of his choice." While this conversation was going on, the wedding guests were beginning to as- semble downstairs. It had been arranged that the small party invited to attend the ceremony was to meet at the Park in the first place, and then walk across the grounds to the church, which was situated immedi- ately outside of them. But the drenching rain which was falling upset this plan. To walk through the damp park was now impossible, and Sir George therefore gave orders for three carriages to be prepared. 96 BENEATH THE WAVE. "When Isabel went down among her guests, she found that the bridegroom, and our old friend Mr. Irvine, had already arrived. Hayward had not yet appeared, but Horace Jervis informed Lady Hamil- ton that he would do so presently. Then the vicar's wife, Mrs. Woodford, came into the room leaning on the arm of her hand- some half-brother. Captain Warrington, and apologized for bringing him by saying that he had arrived unexpectedly the night before at the Vicarage. " I am always glad to see Captain Warrington," said Isabel, in her sweet- toned voice, as she gave him her hand ; and she looked up smilingly into his face as she spoke. Neither of them said anything about the invitation that Isabel had sent Captain Warrington. He, in fact, quite understood that he was expected not to mention it. He admired Lady Hamilton; and Lady Hamilton had the good taste, he thought, to return his admiration; and he was quite BENEATH THE WAVE. 97 ready, therefore, to keep as many of her secrets as she chose to confide to him. There were only one or two other people expected. A young girl who was going to act as bridesmaid, and who was a cousin of Mrs. Woodford's, being amongst them. Isabel had not chosen to ask her " society " friends on this occasion. Hilda Marston was very well, she thought, and she was glad to do her this kindness ; but of course her position was to be considered. Captain Warrington was the only exception that she made to this rule, and she was very intimate with Captain Warrington. If Sir George had read all her letters to the handsome guardsman, he would have had more reason for his angry jealousy than for any of those that she had written to the late Mr. Hannaway. She had trifled with the dead man's feehngs, but she had never really cared for him. But she was not trifling with Captain Warrington. He was too cold and too vain to be trifled with. Isabel knew that her power over VOL. III. H 98 BENEATH THE WAVE. him was very slight; and this made his power. If he had thrown himself virtually at her feet, as her husband, Hajrward, and Mr. Hannaway, all in turn had done, she would have cared very little more about him. But Captain Hugh Warrington made no ^ign of throwing himself at her feet, or at the feet of any woman. He was so handsome and so indifferent, that, for the first time in her life, Isabel was beginning to think she was in iove. Presently Sir George joined the assembled wading party, and almost at the same moment Hayward did so too. Hayward looked gloomy enough, and felt gloomy enough. All the morning he had been playing host to Horace Jervis and Mr. Irvine, and the strain had not been light. Jervis was so happy that his happi- ness jarred severely on Hay ward's nerves. He had stayed behind to have a mo- ment's breathing time, he told himself; and as he crossed the park in the rain he looked up at the windows of the BENEATH THE WAVE. 99 room that he knew the bride elect occu- pied. There >vas a "face at the window" as he did so — a pale face, a familiar face. Hilda was standing there in her bridal dress, looking vaguely out at the rain. She saw Hayward, and it gave her a sudden shock. The room seemed to grow dark to her, and her aching heart to stand still. Then she felt herself falling, and a cold dew breaking out upon her brow. In the meanwhile Sir George was in- quiring for her downstairs. He had agreed to give her away at the coming ceremony, and it was therefore settled that Bhe was to go in the same carriage as he ^d to the church. •"Perhaps she does not like coming down alone," he said to Isabel; and then, with the stately courtesy that generally distinguished him, he left the room for the purpose of bringing in the bride. As he crossed the hall he saw Isabel's 100 BENEATH THE WAVE. chief lady's maid, Ritson, hurrying down the staircase, looking exceedingly alarmed. " What is the matter, Ritson ? " he asked. *' Oh ! Sir George," answered the woman, *'send for a doctor and come upstairs at once. My belief is," she added in a half- whisper, so that the rest of the servants who were standing about might not hear, " that Miss Marston is — dead ! " " My God ! what do you mean ? " ex- claimed Sir George; and he followed the trembling woman at once upstairs to Hilda's bedroom. Hilda was lying on the floor by the window. She had fainted, and in faUing she had cut her forehead, for a faint stream of blood was oozing from it. In her white dress, and with her white face, she had a ghastly effect, but the moment Sir George lifted her in his arms he saw that she was not dead. " She has fainted," he said to Ritson. " Unfasten her dress, open the window, and bathe her face. She will come BENEATH THE WAVE. 101 round presently. See, she is beginning to move." With some deep-drawn sighs Hilda re- covered consciousness. Presently she lifted herself up, and looked inquiringly] at Sir Gteorge and Ritson. "You are better now," said Sir George, kindly, " but you must not be disturbed any more to-day." "But the marriage?" said poor Hilda, famtly. " It must be postponed," said Sir George. Then he sent Ritson for some wine; and Hilda having at his request swallowed some of it, he desired the woman for a few moments to leave the room. "Miss Marston," said Sir George, as Kitson closed the door behind her, address- ing Hilda both with courtesy and kindness in his manner, "as your host I think I have a right to ask you one question. Is this sudden illness which has overtaken you caused by any mental unhappiness ? " The colour that rose to . Hilda's white 102 BENEATH THE WAVE. face at these words told Sir George some- thing of the truth, " If this marriage is distasteful to your feelings/' continued Sir George, *' pause, I beseech you, in time. I have noticed that you have looked unhappy lately, am) if you have been forced or urged to ac- cept Mr. Jervis '' " No, no," said Hilda, quickly. *' I am going to marry him. Say nothing of this. Sir George say I fell " But as she spoke Isabel, followed by Horace Jervis himself, hastily entered the room. A rumour had spread downstairs that the bride had been taken suddenly ill, and this had soon reached the assembled quests. Isabel at once hurried upstairs to Ln the truth, and Jervfa. ia much agit^ tion, had naturally followed her. " What is it ? What has happened ? " asked Isabel. "Miss Marston has fallen and hurt her forehead," answered Sir George, gravely. *' I think, Mr. Jervis," he added, looking BENEATH THE WAVE. 103 at Jervis, "that all idea of marriage must be given up for to-day." " What nonsense ! " exclaimed Isabel. *' Bitson, get some sticking-plaister. How- ever did you happen to do this, Miss Marston ? " But Hilda made no answer. She was looking at Jervis, whose face showed so much agitation and pain. " Do not be afraid," she said, addressing him, and trying to smile. **I shall be all right in a few minutes. Our marriage need not be delayed," And she held out her hand to him. Jervis knelt down by the side of the couch where Sir George had laid her, as Hilda said this. "Hilda," he asked, in a half-whispered voice, broken with anxiety, "tell me the truth. What has caused this, Hilda ? Surely no fear about our future happi- ness ? " "No " answered HUda. "But but, Horace," she added, eagerly, " don't 104 BENEATH THE WAVE. let anyone be present. I will be married but let no one be there." Hilda made this request with earnest eager eyes, as well as lips. Both Sir George and Lady Hamilton caught her pleading tones, and saw her pleading looks, and Isabel spoke sharply the next minute to Jervis. *' What does she say ? " she said. "I also must ask Lady Hamilton," said Jervis, rising. " ^ilda still wishes our marriage to take place, but naturally after her accident she hopes that no one will be present except ourselves — and, per- haps Sir George ? " he added, looking at Sir George, inquiringly. " But how can such a thing be ? " said Isabel imperiously. "These people down stairs have been asked to a marriage, are waiting to see a marriage, and what excuse can be made to them ? It is impos- sible ! " "Oh! Lady Hamilton," said HUda, putting out her hand and taking Isabel's BENEATH THE WAVE. 105 imploringly, "don't ask me to be maxried before anyone now. I could not — I could not!" And tears began to roll heavily down the poor girl's pale cheeks. " No excuse need be made to your guests, Isabel," said Sir George, speaking to his wife in the cold tones of authority which he now habitually used to her. "The fact of Miss Marston s accident is sufficient. The marriage must either be postponed, or if you wish it to take place " And he paused and looked inquiringly at Hilda. " Will you only go with us, Sir George ?" said Hilda. " Dear Lady Hamilton, please let this be so." " It shall be so, if it is your wish," said Sir George, decisively. "Then I wash my hands of the whole affitir," said Isabel, indignantly. "I never heard of anything so truly absurd." "Your conaments are quite unnecessary," retorted Sir George. And upon this, with a scornful glance and a shrug of her 106 BENEATH THE WAVE. shoulders, Isabel walked haughtily out of the room. " If you will let me know when I am required, I am quite at your service," continued Sir George, addressing Jervis, • after she was gone. The bridegroom looked at the bride. Hilda's face was pale and unmistakably agitated, and for a moment a sort of chill doubt crept into Jervis s heart. •* Hilda," he said, again approaching her, and taking her cold hand in his, "if if ^you hesitate " " I do not, Horace," she answered. " Aak Ritson to come to me," she continued the next minute, and she rose as she said this from the couch. " I will bathe my face and change my dress, and then, Sir George, we can go." " I distinctly imderstand that this is your wish," said Sir George, looking pointedly at Hilda. "Yes," she said, more firmly than she had yet spoken. BENEATH THE WAVE. 107 And what more could Sir George say? Nothing; and a few minutes later all the arrangements for this strange marriage were completed. There is no need to go into details. Presently Hilda, pale and trembling, went down the stately stair- case of Massam, clinging tightly to Jervis s arm, and Sir George followed them, and the three were then driven to the church. There Horace Jervis and Hilda Marston were married. Sir George explained to Mr. Woodford, who was waiting for them, the cause of the absence of the wedding guests, and the poor Uttle vicar went rather nervously through the service in conse- quence. But there was no reason. If the bride's voice was rather faint, it never fal- tered. The momentary weakness which had struck her down was gone. She meant to do her duty, and the sense of doing it gave her strength. "O God! help me to do right," she prayed in the morning ; and the same prayer, 108 BK5EATH THE WATE. fbofugh unspoken^ rose firom Hilda's heart as she knelt before the altar, with her hand tightly clasped in that of Horace Jervis. CHAPTER VII. AFTER THE WEDDING. A WOMAN in a rage is generally not a very pleasant person to encounter, and Isabel was in a towering rage when she rejoined tb. weddix^ gu^ Ir her inUr^ew in Hilda's bedroom with her husband. " AUow me to condole with you all," she said contemptuously. '^We are not to have any wedding — at least, we are not allowed to have the privilege of witnessing it ! What do you think has happened ? The bride has fainted " " What T interrupted Hayward sharply, and his face grew pale. "The bride — ^your friend, Mr. Hayward, and mine — a young person, whom as you 110 BENEATH THE WAVE. know, I have loaded with gifts and kind- ness, declines to be married before us. What do you think of that ? Sir George alone is to be honoured by being pre- sent !" " Is Miss Marston ill ?" asked Hayward, with scarcely concealed agitation. *' Surely if she is, the marriage ought to be put off." "She has fainted, or pretended to &.int for effect, most likely," continued Isabel, still in a rage; ^'^oid she inakes this Ab excuse to exclude everyone from being present at her wedding." "Won't we survive the disappointment?" said Captain Hugh Warrington, in his languid sarcastic way. " Suppose, Lady Hamilton, we have a game of billiards instead, and leave the loving young couple to enjoy themselves in their own way, in the company of Sir George ?" Captain Warrington looked with his hand- some eyes into Isabel's face as he said this and smiled. He was thinking ''what a BENEATH THE WAVE. Ill temper she has, but how confoundedly good- looking !" Isabel smoothed down her ruffled plumes as she met the guardsman's glance. She saw that he was only amused by her anger ; and she did not care to amuse Captain Warrington. *^ You are right," she said. " It is absurd to be angry about such people." *' It is always absurd to be angry,'* answered Captain Warrington ; " but we are occasionally liable to it." While this <5onversation was going on, Hayward left the room. Never had Isabel seemed so xmlovely in his eyes as when she had spoken so contemptuously and heartlessly of Hilda's illness. He half guessed the cause of this sudden attack. The pale face at the window had been hers, and that face haunted him. Presently he saw it again. Wandering restlessly about the house after leaving Isabel's presence, he was just about to cross the hall when he saw Hilda descend- ing the staircase on her way to be married. 112 BESEATH THE WATK. She never lifted her head and never saw him* She was dinging tigfatlj to the arm of Jervis, and closely following them came Sir Greorge. Hajward shrank hack wh^i he saw them. Bat he stood in the shadow and watched Hildas face. It was very pale, and her lips were drawn tightly to- gether. She wore her hat &r on her face, and it hid the mark on her hrow. She was dressed in a plain travelling dress, and had laid aside her bridal robes, as it had been arranged that she and Jervis were to start from the church door on their journey, and not return to the Park after the cere- mony was over. Some of the servants were loitering near the door where Hayward stood to see the bride come down. They had received orders from Sir Greorge (through Ritson) not to remain in the hall as she did so, as Sir George thought it might annoy Hilda to be observed, and now Hayward overheard one or two of their comments. " She looks more like going to a funeral BENBATH THE WAVE. 118 than a wedding/' half-whispered one good- looking young housemaid to an older woman. "Yes," answered the older woman to whom the young girl spoke ; " yet, if you look in the priest's face, you'll see she's got a good man." Hayward turned round and looked at the w«m. who «ud this, aod hU heort echoed the sentiment. ''Yes, she had got a good man — God bless her, God bless her — ^" he thought, and with a very hot and restless heart he turned away. Then he remembered Mr. Irvine, and imagining that he and the other guests would have accompanied Lady Hamilton and Captain Warrington, to see the game of billiards that he had heard proposed, he proceeded to the billiard-room to seek them. As he went along the corridor that led to this room, he heard the click of the balls, and Isabel's low laugh. The door of the room was shut, but he opened it, and stood a moment in the doorway, unseen by the occupants. VOL. III. 1 114 BENEATH THE WATE. No one was in the room bat Lady Ham- ilton and Captain Warrington. The j wero leaning against the end of the billiard-table^ with their cues resting on it, and over one of Isabel's jewelled hands Captain Warring- ton's was clasped. Hajward could not be mistaken. He stood there, and they never noticed him. They were talking and laugh- ing, and Warrington was looking into Isa- bel's face with undisguised and not over respectful admiration. Then she looked up, and Hayward saw her glance. It was enough. That one look effectually cured his passion for Isabel He had been weak, flattered, fluttering near the flame ; ready almost to forgive and forget what he knew of her past conduct ; but he never forgave or forgot that scene by the billiard table. With Solomon's bitter words in his heart about a fair woman without discretion, he closed the door and went away. What ! he had wasted his thoughts, and almost broken his heart, about a thing like this? Truly, Mrs. Irvine's prophecy, made long ago BENEATH THE WAVE. 115 about Isabel Trevor at Sanda had come true. "She is a light woman," that grim lady had said, "and some day you men will know it;" and Hayward felt that he knew it now. • • • • • • On the evening of the same day our friend^ the parson, from Sanda wrote a description of Hilda's wedding to his wife. He commenced his epistle in this fashion :— " My DEAR Wife, — ^You asked me in your last to write a detailed account of Miss Hilda Marston's wedding, and I now hasten to do so. I must confess it was by no means an enUvening afiair, and has left a feeling of oppression on my mind that is far from agreeable. Knowing that I can safely confide in your discretion, I will impart some observations that I made to you, although I feel sure that in future you will always boast how superior your discernment of character is to my own. 116 BKSKATH THS WATB. '^ But to retam to the wedding. To begin with, it was a very wet day; to go on with, Hayward came down to break- fast looking absolutely miserable; and to end with, the unaccustomed luxuries that I imprudently indulged in during the day disagreed with me exceedingly. " One person, however, looked perfectly happy during the early break&st at Hay- ward's, and this was the brid^room. Mr, Jervis has a pleasant earnest face, and a sweet smile. He seemed quite content with the weather, and indeed with every- thing. It had been arranged that the small wedding party was to meet at the Park, and then walk to the church, aud about a quarter to ten o'clock Mr. Jervis and myself started. Hayward made some excuse about not accompanying us, but said he would follow. "A few minutes after our arrival at the Park, Lady Hamilton came into the room where we had been ushered. I know that, to entirely please you, I should here be BENEATH THE WAVE. 117 able to describe exactly how her ladyship was dressed. But I confess my inability to do this. However, she was in gay attire, and looked so beautiful that no mortal man could behold her without admiration. Be not jealous, my Martha, at this rapturous description, for, alas! I must add that your nature and homely charms are more to my taste, if the exceeding beauty with which Lady Hamil- ton is gifted has to be accompanied with ihe lightness — I may say indiscretion of manner — that characterizes her ladyship. Long ago I remember you making some disapproving remarks on her conduct, and, as I told you in the beginning of this letter, I feel sure that had you seen her yesterday you would have been full of complacency at your own discernment. There was a Captain Warrington present — a handsome man, with evidently a pro- found consciousness of the fact — and with this gentleman Lady Hamilton laughed and jested in a manner (I thought) highly 120 BENEATH THE WAVE. " Again I observed Hayward's face during this announcement : pain, anger, and disap- poiutment were expressed in every line of it. The dear lad was evidently suffering deeply, and made a hasty protest against ihe marriage taking place if the bride were ill. Then he left the room, and during the rest of the day I saw him no more. " The wedding took place ; the bride and bridegroom started on their proposed journey from the church door, and about twelve o'clock we sat down to a sumptuous wedding breakfast, at which, however. Sir Greorge Hamilton did not appear. " Somehow this breakfast reminded me oddly of the 'baked meats that coldly furnish forth the funeral feast.' Of foolish talking and jesting there was enough, buty to my mind, the shadow of coming evil was over the whole affair. The ill omens in which the ancients believed oppressed me, or, perhaps the unaccustomed luxuries of which I unwisely partook ! Excuse so weak an attempt at merriment as this last BENEATH THE WAVE. 121 allusion, for, in truth, I feel in no merry mood. I grieve about Hayward's unhap- piness, and I grieve that this letter and the news it contains may cause both im- happiness and disappointment in the breast of our amiable Amelia. But it is better that she should know the truth. I feel sure that Hayward loveth her not as a man loveth the woman he would take to his bosom. To your maternal affection and judgment I confide the task of break- ing this ; and I feel sure that you will do so with due discretion. "And now for the present, my dear Martha, farewell. I hope to return on Thursday; and if httle Ned Marston is sufficiently recovered after Christmas, Mr. Jervis proposed that he should once more become my pupil. This is all my news ; and with love to Amelia, I remain your affectionate husband, "Matthew Irvine." This letter caused great disappointment 122 BENEATH THE WAVE. to Mrs. Irvine. This grim woman loved in her grim way the young man she had nursed back^ as it were^ to Ufe, and had a strange sort of vicarious maternal feeling towards him, which longed for fuller ex- pression. The natural consequence of this was that she most earnestly desired to marry her daughter to Hayward. She, however, with all her strange ways, was not devoid of common-sense. Much as she wished Hayward to love Amelia Shadwell, she was by no means sure that he did so. Thus we have seen that she directed her husband to " sound " (as she called it) the ex-tutor on the point ; and the Rev. Matthew's letter, therefore, caused her considerable annoyance and pain. Her heart sank when, about a quarter of an hour after she had received and read it, she heard the somewhat substan- tial feet of AmeUa Shadwell ascending the staircase; and a moment or two later this robust, rosy young lady hastily en- tered the room where she was. BENEATH THE WAVE. 123 " You have heard from pa, ma ? " she said, very red and breathless. " Yes, Amelia Shadwell," replied Mrs. Irvine, solemnly. ** And he's all right, isn't he ? " con- tinued Amelia. " And — Mr. Hayward ? '* *' Is aU wrong," answered Mrs. Irvine, shaking her head, and in her hollow tones. " Wrong, ma ? " repeated Amelia, looking in an alarmed manner at her mother. " Yes, Amelia ShadweU," proceeded Mrs, Irvine in her deepest voice. " Hayward is aU wrong. Some one that he wanted to marry has married some one else ^" But here Mrs. Irvine was interrupted by a shriek from Amelia. '* Wanted to marry ! " cried poor Amelia. And the stout rosy girl turned absolutely pale. ** No, ma, dear-^ surely no ^" "Yes, Amelia Shadwell," said Mrs. Irvine; and the grim gaunt woman rose and put her arms with some tenderness round her daughter. Perhaps she was thinking of the days when she had fallen 124 BEfXATH THM WATK, m lofve, too; aod wheBL her faemrt would have alinoet bn^Den if the dad^eyed joong anate, who had been her hoedMuid now so long, had tamed away. At wH eviraitBy die diowed some motibeiiy feding' to AmeKa, drawing the girl dose to her AsAekoDriSke fbnn. '^ Tkmt cry," die said, ^ doni, Amelia ShadweH Hayward isn't the oniy man in the world, and if he was none of them are worth half the tears that are shed for 'on! They are all mortal day, and prime toevfl!'' '• But 1 thon^t Hayward cared for me, ma," sobbed Amelia, " and after all the beef tea I made '* "Don't grudge the beef tea," said Mrs. Irvine, whose heart still hankered after HaywanL ''The young man needed it, and love neither comes nor goes at one s own bidding. I don't blame Hayward, Amelia Shadwell, and I don't blame you.** ''But ^he sent the piano," wept Amelia. BENEATH THE WAVE. 125 " As a return, no doubt, for the beef tea," said Mrs. Irvine, grimly. " If I thought so ! " cried Amelia, lifting her head indignantly. " It would make no difference," continued Mrs. Irvine. " The young man meant well, and you have no right to be angry because he meant nothing more." " If I had only known," said Amelia, sighing, and beginning to dry her tears. " That's just it," said Mrs. Irvine, '* women can't ask, and so they are con- tinually making fools of themselves. It's best to think that a young man means nothing until he really asks you to marry him." Oh ! Mrs. Irvine, Mrs. Irvine ! In the days when the soft-hearted, soft-eyed young curate went to your father's house, did you act on this principle ? The Rev. Matthew might have been unwedded, and all the little buried Shadwells and the substantial Amelia unborn, if you had then practised as you now preached. 126 BENEATH THE WAVE. But it is astonishing how the old forget the foUies and errors of their youth. The wrinMed dowager shudders at the evil tales told of the young and fair, though she in her day perhaps caused some old i^^oman to shake her head and heave a sanctunonious sigh. Thus Mrs. Irvine quite forgot how she had insisted upon marrying Amelia's kindly father. The mists of tune had dimmed the memory of her girlhood's heart-aches and anxious pain. CHAPTEK VIII. THE DEAD WOMAN's RING. Massam was ajlways beautiful. In the spring time its sylvan glades and dells, fresh with their bright green verdure, seemed the haunts for the fabled naiads and driads of old. In the summer time the ghnting sun- beams stole through the long green arcades of foliage, and fell dancing on the grass below, and on the golden gorse, and the wild hill-sides decked with ferns. Then came the autumn when the trees changed their hues, and the bushes and twining brambles bowed their fruit-laden heads. But before this season arrived, during the first year of Isabel's marriage, Massam was forsaken by its owners. 128 BENEATH THE WAVE. She had grown weary of it, aad Sir George was weary of it. Not quite a year ago, when his love was young, he had wandered with Isabel along the winding tracts, carpeted with their mossy turf, which led through the beautiful woods of Massam. Then he had listened to her flattering lowspoken words, fascinated yet half afraid. Now he walked with her no more. He had won his heart's desire, and it had turned to gall and bitterness. The beauty that had been a snare to him had been a snare to others also, and had brought anger, distrust, and jealousy into his home. He had been a gloomy man before his marriage with Isabel, but he was more gloomy now. He was often harsh and bitter to her; and shortly after the birth of her child, and Hilda Marston's marriage, Isabel insisted that a change of air was absolutely necessary for her health. In this her doctor coincided — ^in fact, with pretty pleading words Isabel had BENEATH THE WAVE. 129 asked him to coincide. Lady Hamilton required change, the great man from town told Su* George ; and aa the season was now over in town, he recommended Brighton. A ^mished house was therefore taken at this watering place. It was taken for August ; and on the 1st of August Isabel and her infant son, and her suite of ser- vants, left Massam, and arrived safely at the comfortable house which had been prepared for them. Sir George did not go. He went to Scotland, intending to return to Massam on the commencement of partridge shooting; and he told Isabel before they parted that it would be well if she also came back at the same time- There was one tie still between Isabel and her husband, and this was their little son. Many a time Sir George would go up to the nursery, when no one but the nurses guessed he did so, and stand watch- ing the cooing babe. He was a lovely child, *'the young heir," as the nurses so proudly VOL. III. K 130 BSMEATH THS WAYS. called him. But Sir Greoige said nothing about his heirship. He would stand looking ai the baby boy, and then turn away with a sigh. But he was fond of the sturdy little fellow that would grasp his finger with a tiny clasp. Isabel also was rather proud if not fond of the child, and it was a link between them. " For the boy's sake I wiU bear with her if I can," thought Sir George. "For little Reggy's sake I will try to be civil," decided Isabel. The baby had been called Reginald, after Isabel's father, Mr. Trevor. Isabel had proposed to call him after his own father; but Sir George had requested — ^nay, com- manded — ^that this should not be. So his grandfather's name was given to him; and the old squire at Sanda felt very proud when he heard that it was to be so. He sent Master Reginald a gorgeous gold drinking cup as a christening present, and a pompous letter of good wishes to his daughter on the same occasion. He BBNEATH THE WAVB. 13 1 was not asked to the christening ; for Isabel had taken a great dislike to her father'3 young wife, and, of course, she could not invite her father without her. But she penned a civil letter back to the squire. She hoped that some day he would come to see her Uttle Reggy, she wrote, and told him that he had no reason to be ashamed of his grandson. Yet she felt anything but pleased when, on her arrival at Brighton, she found her father, his wife, and Patty Featherstone^ were also staying there. She had intended to amuse herself, and she felt very much afraid that they would be in the way. They called upon her formally the day after her arrival, and the squire was appa- rently much delighted with his little grandson. "I trust that we shall often see you^ Isabel, as you are here," said the squire, « he ki^ hi. daughter. " Thank you, papa," repUed Isabel ; but she mentally resolved at the same time 132 BENEATH THE WAVE. that she would see as little as possible of the family party. Yet she had no lust cause of angfer .gau^ her father ^e. Lucinda did L duty to the old man, and tried to make him happy. If she were kind to her own people also, was she to blame ? Isabel, at all events, thought so ; and she accord- ingly behaved very coldly to Patty Feather- stone during this first visit. When people like, they can very easily avoid even their nearest relations. Isabel wished to avoid **those Featherstone girls," as she still called Patty and Lucinda; and Patty and Lucinda were quite sharp enough to see that this was the case. Naturally they were annoyed, and natu- rally Mr. Trevor was annoyed. Then Isabel began to be talked about. Her great beauty, her husband's wealth, and her own careless disregard of appearances, were sufficient grounds for this, if there was nothing else. But, unfortunately, there was something else. Captain Warrington — a man BENEATH THE WAVE. 133 well known at Brighton — ^remaxkable alike for his good looks and his money, was con- stantly to be seen in the beautifiil Lady Hamilton's train. This was first whispered to Mrs. Trevor, her father's yomig wife; and then when Lucinda was never to be seen in pubUc with her lovely daughter-in- law, it was openly commented on. Whispers pass on in a mysterious way^ and the whispers about Lady Hamilton were n^ Win reaching Mi«un. Hay- ward heard them from reckless Antony Featherstone, who laughed, and had his coarse joke at Sir George's expense on the occasion. As we know, Isabel's folly was now no news to Hayward. But he was angry, and said some sharp words to Mr. Featherstone, for the sake of Sir George. "He should look better after her," said reckless Antony; and then he went away to spread the tale, and have his joke and laugh again. When Lucinda first told her husband 1$4 RBKATH THE WATS. that Isabel was talked of in BiightoA about Captam Wsnington^ the Squire of Sanda was p^ecdy horrified. His daugh- ter to be indiscreet in her conduct I — it was impoosible, he argued. Then, when with his own eyes he saw how careless and defiant Isabel was of appearances, be at once determined to speak to her on the subject. He did so, and Isabel received his advice with scornful contempt. Did your youthful Lu," she said, send you on this errand? If so, my dear father, I may as well tell you that you are wasting your time." " Isabel," said the squire, trembling partly with emotion and partly with anger, ''have you lost all the respect that is due to me as your parent?" **You have no right to interfere with me," answered Isabel defiantly. *'For your dead mothers sake — for your husband's sake," urged the squire, "surely you will never allow your name to be bandied about with this young man's?" 4t BENEATH THE WAVE. 135 "What do I owe my husband?" an- swered Isabel, passionately. " He treats me with utter contempt and indiflference." "Then it is your own fault," retorted Mr. Trevor. "When Sir George married you, he was, I am sure, deeply attached to you." "It did not last, then," said Isabel; and in this reckless spirit she absolutely re- jected her fathers advice. "Then I shall speak to your husband,* said the squire, rising angrily to leave ; and he actually contemplated writing Sir George on the subject; but his wife per- suaded him not to do so. " She will not stay long," said Lucinda, good-naturedly. "Don't make any fiirther breach between them, if you can possibly help it. Foolish as Isabel is, I cannot believe that she will allow her vanity to carry her too far." But though her father gave Sir Georgse no hint of Isabel's indiscretion^ Antcmy Featherstone was not ao reticent. 136 BENEATH THE WAVE. ''You should look after that handsome wife of yours, Sir Greorge," he said in his careless reckless way, a few days after Sir Gteorge returned from Scotland. " I hear she's turning the heads of half the young fellows in Brighton, and that good- looking guardsman's — ^the parson's relation — ^among the number." Sir George gave no reply to this im- pertmence. He looked with his cold haughty gaze at Mr. Featherstone's flushed red face, and then, without a word, he turned away. But this careless speech left its mark; and Sir George acted upon it. He wrote, in fact, at once to Isabel, and requested her immediately to return. She repUed civiUy to this letter. She would like to stay a week longer, the sea air was doing the baby so much good — and so on. But Sir George was not to be beguiled. He started for Brighton on the morning that he received his wife's answer to his letter, and, to Isabel's sur prise and consternation, arrived there the BENEATH THE WAVE. 137 same evemng, when Isabel was dressing to go to a concert at the Aquarium. "I have come to take you home," he said, after coldly saluting her. " But why ? '* said Isabel. " Reggy is so well here and as papa is here " "Have you seen much of your father?" asked Sir George; and Isabel slightly coloured at the question. "Not so much, of course," she answered, "as I would have done if the Feather- stones had not been with him." " If you mean your father's wife, I hear she makes him a most excellent one," said Sir George. "Of course," said Isabel, throwing back her head, "you are sure to say every- thing that will be disagreeable to me." But Sir George made no answer to this petulant reply. His eyes by accident had fallen on Isabel's rings, which were lying on a table near, where she had carelessly thrown them when she had commenced dressing for the concert. There were some 138 BEKEATH THE WAYE. half-dozen of them, and they were aU diamond ones. It was, indeed, one of Isabel's last fancies to wear nothing but diamonds, and among the sparkling dr- clets Sir Greorge's eyes were fixed intently upon one. It was the great heavy diamond hoop that had been on the dead woman s hand whose body had been brought to shore by Hayward at Sanda. Isabel had kept tL ri^ agai,.* her feWs ^es, but she had never worn it at Massam. She was afraid, in fact, that Sir Greorge would not allow her to retain it if he knew where it came from. At Brighton, how- ever, she had constantly worn it. It was indeed a beautiful ring, remarkable for the size of the brilliant stones that it con- tained, and for the inscription on the inner rim, which, under the circumstances, had seemed so sad to Hilda Marston. Suddenly — ^before Isabel had noticed that his attention was attracted by it — Sir G^rge lifted this ring in his hand, and BENEATH THE WAVE. 139 the next moment, in a voice sharpened by some strange agony, he asked : " Isabel, where did you get this ring ? " She looked up at this, and when she saw which ring it was, she sUghtly frowned. " I don't know," she said, with affected carelessness; "at a jeweller's, I suppose." " What jeweller's ? " asked Sir George^ in the same strange voice ; and he ner- vously turned the ring, and read the words engraved on the inner rim as he spoke, " To my beloved" He read these words, but not aloud; and then with something between a sob and cry, he sprang forward and grasped Isabel's hand. "TeU me," he said, "for God's sake, tell me, Isabel, where did you get this ring ? " His agitation was unmistakable, his face almost convulsed, and a sudden suspicion at once entered Isabel's mind. " Why do you want to know ? " she said, ferying to free her hand. "Did you give 140 BBSHATH THB WATS. it to gome bdoTed <Hie, thai? Is it a soavenir of some lost love?* She spoke these words half taiintii^;ty, and with a coise Sir Greoige dropped her hand. ''W<»naii,'' he said fiuang her, ''answo- me. Where, and b j what means, did yoa gain possession of this ring ? " '' It was taken from a dead woman's hand," imswered Isabel, defiantlj. ''And what, may I ask, was the dead woman to you?'' At this moment Isabel's maid, Bitson, who did not know that Sir Geoige had arrived, entered the room, and withoat seeing him, addressed Isabel : " My lady," she said, " Captain War- rington is here " Then she paused, for she suddenly had perceived that Sir Geoige was present. " I am ready," said Isabel, and she went to the table and put on her other rings, looking defiantly at Sir George the while. *' Where is my cloak?" she continued. BENEATH THE WAVE. 141 speaking to Kitson ; and then, as her maid placed it on her shoulders., she once more addressed her husband. " I am going to a concert at the Aqua- rium," she said; ''will you go? Captain Warrington is here, and his sister, Mrs. Woodford. I am going with them." *'You can go," answered Sir George, in a low fierce tone, after a moment's hesita- tion; and Isabel, with a glance at her maid to follow her, drew her cloak around her, and quitted the room. "Gret him out of the room as quickly as possible," she whispered to Ritson, as soon as they were on the staircase. And the maid, after seeing her lady down- stairs, where she was joined by Captain "Warrington, returned to the dressing-room, where Sir George was still standing. " Ritson," he said, speaking to her harshly and sternly, " do you know anything about this ring?" And he held the diamond hoop towards her as he spoke. " Nothing, Sir George," answered Ritson^ 142 BENEATH THE WAYS. positively and truthfully. There were other rings that Isabel wore that Kitson did know something of, but not of this. Isabel, in fact, had never confided to her maid how this ring had come into her possession. "Do you know how long she has had it?" asked Sir George, in the same stern voice. ** Ever since I have been with my lady," said Ritson; "but she never wore it until lately. I have seen it, however, frequently in her jewel-case at Massam." " That will do," said Sir George. " Give me your lady's keys, and then leave the room." "But, Sir George " hesitated the confidential maid. " I insist upon your obeying me," said Sir George. "Give me the keys." "I — I haven't them with me," mur- mured Ritson, tremblingly. "Then bring me a hammer and a file," said Sir George ; and the frightened woman BENEATH THE WAYE. 143 left the room^ and as she went down stairs she decided to send a messenger to recall her lady. In the meanwhile Sir Greorge was look- ing around at Isabel's possessions. He would learn how she got this ring, he determined. There must be some clue in her desk, or in the locked drawers of her toilet table; and as his heart was wrung with great agony and doubt, he made up his mind at once to search for it. Ritson did not return with the keys, but Sir George was a strong man, and slight locks are easily broken. He waited a moment or two for the lady's maid, and then rang the room bell violently, and in a minute or so the butler (who had accompanied Isabel from Massam) answered the sunmions. It was known downstairs by this time that something had happened. Kitson, with scared looks, had herself hurried out to go to the concert to seek her lady, and the butler was, therefore, half pre- 144 BENEATH THE WAVE. pared for the stem expression that his master wore when he answered the dressing- room bell. ''Where is Ritson?" asked Sir George. " Why has she not brought me the keys I ordered her to bring?" " Kitson has just gone out, Sir George," repUed the butler. " Then bring me at once a hammer and a ffle." This order the butler obeyed, and stood listening outside the door of the dressing- room, while the crash of wood-work and the wrenching open of locks was heard from within. The man stood with bated breath. He knew that probably some* terrible dis- covery would follow this forcible opening of Lady Hamilton's locked repositories. Her servants had watched and commented upon her conduct now for long. These polite, re- spectful, household spies knew now, there- fore, that a crisis had come. The butler heard the wrenching of the locks, and then went down and told his fellows what was BENEATH THE WAVE. 145 going on upstairs. He told them at least that Sir George was breaking open my lady's locks; but he could not tell them of all the dark passions that were raging in Sir George's breast as he did so. With the hammer and file in his hands, and with his black brows knitted and his forehead wet with dew, Sir George stood. He had first forced open the top drawer of Lady Hamilton's dressing-table. In this, lying on a confused collection of female vanities, he found a short open note. Sir George took it up and read it, and then, with a muttered execration, dashed it on the floor. Bnt this note was one of many. They were all written in one handwriting, aud as Sir George read them, there was no longer any doubt in his mind of his wife's guilt. He had known before that she was a base and pequred woman, but he knew now that she had forfeited all right to the shelter of his roof He took out the letters one by one. VOL. III. L r 146 BENEATH THE WAVE. Then, with a bitter curse, he laid them on a table near, and went on with his search. He was not seeking evidence of his wife's sin now. He was seeking for what he had remained there to seek — some clue as to how Isabel had become possessed of the dead woman's ring. But he sought in vain. Among all her letters, amongst all her secrets, there was not one word to unravel this one. Yet Sir George could not be mistaken in the ring. This ring had been in his hands before. It had been given as a token of a love long dead. It had come from be- neath the wave as an avenging sign. It was a symbol of his own guilt and sin ; and in seeking for the knowledge of how Isabel had become possessed of it, he had learned that his wife was no better than a castaway ! The room was all in confusion. He had flung the contents of her desk, her trunks, and her drawers carelessly aside as he searched them. Her jewels, her love- BENEATH THE WAVE. 147 letters, her lover's gifts, all were strewn around, when suddenly he heard a light and faltering step approach the door. Then the handle slowly turned, and, pale and trembling, Isabel appeared on the threshold. She grew more afraid when she saw him. The fierce dark light in his eyes, and the concentrated passion of his expres- sion, filled her heart with dread. " Come here," he said, in a savage undertone, looking at her; but she shrank back. "Don't be afraid, I'U not murder you,"' he continued, in the same passion-stifled voice. " Come here ; I want you to answer one question before I see your face no more ! " Then Isabel approached him, and fell grovellingly on her knees. She saw it was all discovered. Her sin, her folly, her falseness, were all known now; but she thought she might move him for the child's sake. 148 BENEATH THE WAVE. " For Reggy s sake," she said, with half a sob, looking up into his stern, pale face, "for the boy's sake, don't turn me away ! " "He will be better with no mother," answered Sir George in a hoarse voice. " Don't say thai ^" she urged ; but Sir Oeorge stopped her with an imperative gesti re. " Tell me," he said, " if your fialse lips can speak the truth — ^tell me, where did you get this ring ? " "At Sanda," said Isabel, who was too much terrified to refuse to answer. "A woman's body was brought on shore there by Mr. Hayward, and she had on several rings. That was one of them. Papa got them to take care of, as lord of the manor, and I asked him to allow me to wear that one. This is the truth." "At Sandal" murmured Sir George, as if he were thinking aloud. "At Sanda — truly my sin has found me out 1 " " What was this woman to you ? " asked BENEATH THE WAVE. 149 Isabel^ gaining now a little courage and rising. " Not faithless like you, at least ! " an- swered Sir George, again looking at her with withering scorn. " But it is all over," he continued, " my roof shall shelter you no more, and the name that you have dishonoured shall be taken from you." "Be it so, then," said Isabel, drawing herself up to her full height, and facing him. ''I am not a woman to ask a man to forgive me twice." And with these last words she turned away, and went out from her husband's presence. CHAPTEE IX. NEMESIS. A HEAVY thunderstorm broke over Massam the day after this dark and miserable meeting between Sir George and Lady Hamilton took place. In the midst of it, amid the bUnding rain and the fierce flashes of forked Hght- ning, Sir George, pale, travel-stained, and visibly disturbed, rode up to the entrance of Combe Lodge, and asked to see Hay- ward. He was at home, and at once went to meet Sir George ; holding out his hand and looking at him in great surprise. " Sir George I " he said, leading the way into the library, " when did you return ? " BENEATH THE WAVE. 151 " Just now," answered Sir George. " I came to you at once." " And on such a day ! " said Hayward. ''It is a fitting day," replied Sir George, gloomily, *'for the tale I have to tell. Hayward," he adddd the next moment, " why — did you never tell me — of this unhappy woman — whose body you I'escUed from the sea ?" Sir George's looks, his unmistakable agi- tation, his broken and passionate accents, all alarmed Hayward, and filled him with a vague sense of coming ill. *' What has happened T asked Hayward. " If you mean the poor woman whose body was washed near to the shore at Sanda " "Yes," said Sir George, excitedly, as Hayward hesitated ; " I mean the woman whose dead body was cast up from beneath the wave as a witness against me. What do you think I am, Hayward," he con- tinued, pacing the room with rapid steps. "ShaU I teU you? This hand," he went 152 BENEATH THE WAVE. on darkly, holding out his right hand, " sent that woman to her doom ! " " My God ! " exclaimed Hayward. " Listen," continued Sir George, passion- ately, *' it is a tale of shame and pain f I have come to confess to you. The one man whose friendship and r^ I have sought will turn from me with shrinking abhorrence to-day ! " "That can never bel" said Hayward, warmly, advancing arid holding out his hand to Sir George. " Whatever you have done, nothing will change my feelings to you now." This assurance seemed a sort of conso- lation to Sir George's miserable heart. He took Hayward's hand. He looked with his dark sunken eyes yearningly into the young man s face. " I — ^tried," he said in a broken voice, "tried to do right. My mad passions mastered me — not meaningly did I strike the fatal blow." Then God, who judges not as men u BENEATH THE WAVE. 153 judge," said Hayward, *' knows it. Dear Sir George," he continued, *' I earnestly entreat you to take some consolation from this thought in this unhappy hour." For a moment or two Sir George did not speak after this appeal ; and then, with more composure of manner than he had hitherto evinced, he once more looked up and addressed Hayward. ** I will tell you Hie tale," he said, *Hhe tale of a wrecked life. To do this I must go back to the time when I was a young man of some seven or eight and twenty, for until then things had all gone fairly smooth with me. I had a good mother, and was fond of her, and she fried all she could to make my life happy. But about this age I took a restless fit. I grew weary and somewhat jaded of the easy and luxurious routine in which I spent my days. I wished for change, and I determined to make a lengthened tour over Europe. I did this, wandering from country to country, and about six months 154 BENEATH THE WAVE. after I left home I found myself in Spain. It is a wretched story, remem- ber, Hayward, that I have to tell you — wretched in the beginning — more wretched in the end ! " "Yes, I understand," said Hayward, as Sir George paused. " It was at Seville, then," continued Sir George, "that I formed the unhappy connection that blighted and finally ruined my life. In the house in which I was staying there was a young Spanish girl, beautiful in the dark and passionate beauty of her race, and an unfortunate attachment sprang up between us. She was the niece of the proprietor of the house I was in, and for some weeks I was constantly thrown with her. She was ignorant, and impetuous, and I was selfish and un- thinking. Her low birth made her no fitting mate for me, and in an evil hour I asked Catalina Mendoza to leave her home. Hayward, from that day I was a hampered and unhappy man. The poor BENEATH THE WAVE. 155 girl reproached me, and my conscience reproached me, and daily association with an uneducated and narrow-minded woman quickly wore away the feelings that her beauty had excited in my heart." *' I can easily believe that," said Hay- ward. " Yet I tried not to show this," said Sir George. " We lived together year after year, and travelled from city to city, and I tried — so heaven help me ! — to make her life as happy as I could. But she was always urging me to marry her, and this, for my mother s sake — for my pride's sake, perhaps — I refused to do. At last she told me she was about to become a mother, and on her knees implored me not to let our innocent child be bom with a brand upon its name. Then I did for the unborn babe what I would not do for the mother — I married her, and our child was bom after the cere- mony." " What ! " exclaimed Hayward quickly. 156 BENEATH THE WAVE. ^'then you have an elder legitimate child to Eeggy ? " " Yes, I drowned the voice of conscience for a wanton ! " answered Sir George, bitterly. " Call her by no other name, for what is she ? Look at these letters — read the evidence of a vile woman's shame." As Sir George said these last words he placed in Hayward's hands the letters he had taken from Isabel's locked drawers on the previous day. Hayward opened one, glanced at the signature, and placed the packet on a table near. *' I understand," he said. '' These are letters that have been addressed by Cap- tain Warrington to Lady Hamilton ? " " Yes ! " said Sir George, with passionate emphasis. ''For this false woman's sake I hid away the child that is the legal heir to Massam 1 But I have not told you all — I have not told you of the dark deed that made me free to marry Isabel Trevor | I have not told you how the ring — ^the BENEATH THE WAVE. 157 pledge of a love long dead — was cast up from beneatli the wave to me in ven- geance. Hayward, ttie hand of God has smitten me — the dead woman's ring has appeared as a witness against me ! " *'And this unhappy woman/' said Hay- ward, as Sir George paused, utterly over- come with emotion, "that I swam out, and brought to shore at Sanda, was your " "She was my wife," said Sir George^ darkly and gloomily; "the low-bom wife of whom I was ashamed, and of whom I had wearied long ago ! Unhappy she was to bear that name — unhappy indeed to be wedded to a man who loved her not, and whose thoughts and feelings were utterly dissimilar to her own. It was a wretched marriage. As soon as she found she had any legal claim upon me, she ceased, or appeared to cease, to have any regard for me. We quarrelled constantly, and a vile habit that she had learnt of taking too much wine added to my aversion and disgust. For five long years we were 158 BENEATH THE WAVE. married, and during all these, and during thQ five years which preceded them, I never returned to England. I could not bear to tell my mother my secret. I could not bring a woman who was not fit to do so, to share her home, and so I remained away. At last my poor mother died, and I was almost compelled to return. But I did not mean to do so for long. I requested Hannaway to purchase me a yacht — ^the ill-fated Endymion — ^you under- stand now, do you not ? I am drawing near the end of my miserable tale." *' And this yacht was lost at Sanda ? " asked Hayward. "Yes. We sailed from Havre, and were cruising about the Scottish coast, when one night — God ! I cannot tell it — I cannot tell it ! " and Sir George paused, and covered his face with his hands, and groaned aloud. " Do not do so, then, dear Sir George," urged Hayward. " Spare yourself this terrible pain." BENEATH THE WAVE. 159 *'No, I will go on," said Sir George, in a broken and hollow voice. " I will tell you how, in a moment of mad pas- sion, I struck the woman I had sworn to love and cherish ! It was at night, as I have said," he continued, struggling with his bitter emotion, ** a moonlight night, and she was sitting carelessly on the bul- wark of the vessel, taunting me, as usual, with my meanness and cowardice in not taking her to my English home. We got to high words. In a moment — ^unthink- ingly, passionately — I struck her a blow; and the next, O God ! God ! she reeled over, and fell — ^before I could put out my hand to save her — ^into the sea ! " '' O, Sir George ! " said Hayward, deeply moved. '* We stopped the yacht," went on Sir George in stifled accents. '* The boats were got out, and hour after hour we lingered near the fatal spot. But she was gone ! As she fell overboard she gave a cry. That weird death cry was heard by the 160 BENEATH THE WAVE. men. I saw tliis in their faces — I saw them muttering and whispering together — - and I knew they suspected, if they were not sure of, the truth. This went on for days. 1 was afraid to go into port, lest they should denounce me as a murderer; afraid to ask them what they knew. Then came the storm. Amid that raging tem- pest their tongues were loosed. As the ship heeled over, and the end came, I heard them reviling and cursing me! * This is for sailing with a murderer I ' one man cried as the ship went down. Hayward, that dead man's face came back to me ! I was called upon to identify at the inquest the very man whose last words and looks of hate I had heard and seen." " How terrible ! how terrible ! " cried Hayward. "You know the rest now," continued Sir George, after pausing for a moment or two, when he appeared totally unable to proceed. "You know how I remained BENEATH THE WAVE, 161 at Sanda after the wreck, and how the fatal beaaty of Isabel Trevor snared me^ as it had snared you ! Truly and deeply I loved her 1 No other woman had ever been to me what she was, and yet I struggled with my feelings— telling myself that I had no right to form new ties — and that the unhappy Catalina's child was the legal successor to my property and my name. But I was rich," added Sir George, with a bitter ring in his deep voice, " I was worth winning, and she knew her power ! It ended in my acting with dis- honest cowardice. I resolved for her sake to suppress my legitimate heir, and rear him as if he were illegitimate. There was but one person in England who half knew, half guessed, the secret of my first mar- riage. This was Hannaway. But he was a man who meddled little with things that did not concern him; and though he knew of my connection with Catalina, and of the child's birth, he was not, I think, sure of the marriage. But mark how mysteri- VOL. III. M 162 BENEATH THE WAVE. ously my sins have found me out. When Hannaway's death happened, I hurried to his house, to secure the secret of the child's existence from prying eyes. He had sent money to the person the boy was with from time to time, and I knew the receipts would be among his papers. In searching for these I learnt that she for whom I had done all this was utterly unworthy of my love ! Until I read her letters to Hannaway, I had loved Isabel — ^yes, loved her too well ! These letters turned my heart to gall. She had never loved me — ^had jibed and jested about me from the very first, to this man who was almost a stranger to her. Truly, from that day the iron entered into my soul. The remorse that has always pursued me seems now greater than I can bear." "Do not say so," said Hayward earn- estly. " It was a terrible misfortune, but the fatal blow was an unintentional one." "Yes," answered Sir George, gloomily; "but many and many a time before I BENEATH THE WAVE. 163 had wished that she were dead, and I was free. But now — could I recall her back to life — I would die a thousand deaths to have the power to do so !" As Sir George said this, he sank back on a chair, completely overcome. The storm was still raging outside, and the lurid light made the whole scene more impressive and tragic. The conscience- stricken man, whose wealth was nothing to him, whose love had turned to hate^ and whose sin had found him out, seemed utterly overwhelmed and broken down. In vain Hayward tried to comfort him. What, indeed, could he say? Nothing, as Sir George truly told him ; for in Sir George's heart there was the bitterness of death! CHAPTER X. A SOANDAL. On the night when Isabel left her hus- band's presence, after all her crooked ways, all her folly, and all her sin had come to light, she hastily summoned her maid Ritson, and after writing a few pencilled lines, placed them in the woman's hand. " Take these," she said, " to Captain Warrington; he is waiting outside. Tell him to get a cab, and I will join hinn at once." Then the woman spoke up tremblingly and eagerly, " Oh, my lady," she said, "don't go. Think a moment what you are throwing away. Go to your father's ; and in the morning, perhaps, Sir George " BEHBATH THE WAVE. 165 '^ No/' said Isabel^ passionately^ as Bitson paused; ''do you think I would go there, and whme and beg for protection from Lucinda Featherstone ? No/' she repeated, ''he has done it, I will not go back — I will not go back!" **Por Reggy's sake, for your little boy's sake!" urged the woman; and for a moment a more womanly look than the hard and defiant one which Isabel's face wore passed over it. She paused. The God-given, motherly instinct, which in her cold heart was so sli^t, so overgrown, and overshadowed by other feelings, for a moment asserted its sway. Then came back darker thoughts, the angry passions ; and the child's little tender touch was forgotten. "It is too late," she said. ''Take this note — ^tell him I shall come. And, Eitson, you stay behind and pack the jewels — I am not going, at least, to leave them." And Isabel gave a little bitter and de- fiimt laugh. 166 BKNEATH THE WAYS. So she threw it all away ! Her good Dame, her young child's love, the world's respect and honour, and higher and hoUer blessings still, of which Isabel had never thought. And for what? Let us, oh reader, for a moment foUow Bitson's foot- steps, and see how Isabel's decision was received by the man for whom she had sacrificed so much. The lamplights were shining on Captain Warrington's handsome face, who was pacmg backwards and forwards in the streets below as Kitson approached him. But there was a frown on that handsome face. Captain Warrington hated scenes and exposures; and though he walked not in the strait and narrow way, he had never made himself very conspicuous in the broad one. He was, therefore, an- noyed and disconcerted. "I hope she's not going to get me into any confounded trouble," he was thinking; and as the thought passed through his mind ; he saw Kitson approaching him. . BENEATH THE WAVE. 167 He knew this woman well. She had carried his notes and his love-letters— the notes and the love-letters were all now lying open before Sir George — and he therefore advanced eagerly to meet her. "Well," he said, "has there been a row?" The woman's answer was to place Isa- bel's note in his hand, and as he read the few pencilled lines by the lamplight that she had sent him, a curse broke from his lips. " What 1 " he cried with passionate anger ; and then, with bitten Ups and knitted brow, he stood silent to hear the woman's tale — the tale that left him burdened with a woman for whom he had no love and no respect. The next day there was a scandal in Brighton. The beautiful Lady Hamilton had eloped, and everyone was eager to tell his or her neighbour the news. Then the scandal spread to town, and crept into the "society" papers, and was talked of and laughed about in the Clubs. Captain 168 BENEATH THE WAVE. Hugh Warrington was a man well known, and Lady Hamilton was a beauty; and so the affair made quite a sensation. By- and-by the story came to Yorkshire, and tongues were loosened, and tales were told that had only been whispered or suspected before. The dead lawyer, Mr. Hannaway, lying in his untimely grave, once more was talked of and commented on. This person had seen that, another something else. Lady Hamilton had flung away her feir fame, and everyone now was ready to help to blacken it. In the meanwhile, at the Park, the gloomy master passed his miserable days. It seemed now to Sir George (as he had told Hayward) that the hand of God had smitten him. A settled and profound melancholy oppressed him. The remorse that he had never succeeded in driving from his mind, even during his passionate infatuation for Isabel Trevor, now returned with ten-fold force. He was for ever haunted by his hidden crime. The woman BENEATH THE WAVE. 169 who had loved him — ^the ignorant^ once beautiful; Spanish woman — was now bit- terly revenged 1 But he did all he could now to repair his wrong. He went up to town with Havward a few days after he had told binThiB dark sto.y.'Ld ,aw hi» la^er. and gave directions for a new will. At the same time he made a formal declara- tion of his first marriage, and instructed his lawyer how, in the event of his death, this marriage could be proved. Then he wrote to the Padre at Seville, who had charge of his till now unacknowledged son, and desired him to prepare the boy to come to England. "He is my heir,'* he said to Hayward; and Hayward, by his wish, started for Seville about a mpnth after Lady Hamil- ton had left her husband, for the purpose of bringmg this Spanish youth to his English home. After Hayward was gone, Sir George's gloom and remorse grew darker and deeper. 170 BENEATH THE WAVE. He had pressed on, with all the influence that his wealth and position could com- mandy his projected divorce from Isabel. But he had to wait his turn. Other men, ,and other women too, were striving to be free from broken or dishonoured bonds, and 'Hhe Hamilton case" was one of many. So, alone — ^with some of the bitterest feelings that the human heart can bear for ever near him — Sir George lived on at Massam. It was a gloomy picture : a man beset by the darkest passions of our nature, and with no hope or comfort on which to lay his hand. Even his love for his little son was poisoned by the memory of its mother. The child had golden hair, and the hue of the little silken curls ever reminded Sir George of Isabel. With morbid self-torture. Sir George now constantly wore the dead woman's ring. He believed that it had been cast up by the waves as an avenging sign to him, BENEATH THE WAVE. 171 and as a token that his sin had found him out. Conceive, then, this crime- haunted man sitting in his stately home, with his sunken eyes fixed on the glitter- ing pledge of a love that had so drear an endl No wonder that his brain reeled at times, and that his reason threatened to give way. One day, when the dark spirit was upon him, the idea entered into his mind to go to Sanda to see the grave of the unhappy woman he once had loved. He went — wandering in that seaside churchyard among the simple gravestones that re- corded many an untimely end. The cruel sea whose waves were breaking on the rough brown rocks below had swallowed up the bread-winner, the father, the be- loved son. All around Sir George read the tragic tale. But among all the graves, among all the tombstones, he saw nothing to tell him of the one he sought. At last he went to Mr. Irvine, and in faltering, ahnost unintelligible words, asked where 17a Ae wammt's hoij h^ diak Imi lMe» in^ and ^id «D lepesfc Ai^ tafeL '^llhepoGr aool had tosBed msKj- dsjs m flie aea^* he aaid; snd^ fittie guesaa^ the MgOfBtj' bb wmi mffiebng^ ke proceeded to deseiibe aQ the detadk of tiie dead utman^s appesnmee to the wBimppy ^or George. Then be pointed oat tiie gre&i hillock wliere she laj after her lomg wanderii^s. ^Aje^ said tiie paraoii, ^ ^le deqpB here! Wher^ I wcaider, pocnr aea mif, are her firi^ids and kindred — where, per- haps the husband of her Iotb?" Witii knitted brow and l»tten Hps Sir Gteorge stood by md heard. Where? It seemed to his maddened ears at that mo- ment that a mocking laugh rang in the air. Where ? Was it some devil that laughed, or was Sir Greorge going mad? Almost with a cry of terror, he tamed from the grave; and the parson, in some surprise and dismay, foUowed him. Was BENEATH THS WAYS. 173 Sir Greorge ill? he asked; and he urged him in his genial way to return to rest and re&eah himself at the Parsonage. But in brief harsh words Sir George refused. No^ he must go — go at once, he said. He scarcely answered the kind parson's farewells. He did not know how anxiously the good man looked in his face as he rung his cold and nerveless hand. All the way on his journey home he heard the sea breaking on the rocks at Sanda. Then, as wave after wave broke with melancholy cadence on his ears, he knew he w» going mad But he regained Mb aelf-eontrol before he reached Massam. He went straight into the library when he got there, and found a letter lying there addressed to him from Hayward, in Spain. Hayward had found the boy, he told Sir George; and when he received this letter, he and the young Juan, Sir George's Spanish son, would be on their way to England. 174 BENEATH THE WAVE. "He is a handsome lad," wrote Hay- ward, "with dark fiery eyes, and an imperious manner." As Sir George read these words, he seemed to see again the beautiful and passionate face of the unhappy mother, as he had first seen it in the bright jdays of her girlish love ; long years had passed since then. The ardent love had first grown cold, and then had turned to weariness and hate. But Sir George forgot all this now. He only saw the young Spanish girl, with her dark eyes fixed on his, and felt her rosy lips in their first fond kiss of love ! And the boy — ^how could he meet the boy ? —he began asking himself. " Where is my mother ? " he would say, " Where ? " As Sir George repeated this last word again and again, he was concious that his self-control was once more passing away, and that the gloomy terrors of a madhouse awaited him. "But I shall never go there," he de- cided ; and so deUberately and determi- BENEATH THE WAVE. 175 nately he made up his mind to end his miserable life. He took out a pistol and loaded it, and then, with heavy weary footsteps, he went upstairs to kiss the little child. The baby- boy was asleep, and made no sign ; but the nurse saw that the stem-eyed gloomy man had left a tear on the rosy dimpled cheek. ''His bad wife has broken his heart," said the head nurse indignantly, after he was gone. " I said how it would end, when her ladyship, indeed ! could not bear to hear the little angel cry just after he was bom ! " After Sir George left the nursery he went out silently into the night. It was bleak and wet and the wind was sighing through the trees in the deserted park, and the grass was dank and sKppery. But Sir George noticed none of these things. He was about to take a leap in the dark; to begin a journey to an unknown land t So he heard the wind, but he heeded it 176 ?oiy and the lam fdl in great hexwj dmpB on Ids £aee^ but he nerer w^ped diem awaj. He knew what he was Aokag, hat he knew abo that this power woold not last for lofog. He felt^ in &ct^ that he was going mad, and that his mind was gi^ii^ way firom the pndcxiged and teniUe strain that had Mien iqpcm it. There was a long green arcade of trees in the park^ where, in his early manhood, he had often lain and dreamed in the sammer time a young man's romantic dreams. They seemed to pass before his mental vision now, when ihey had all ended in failure and in shame. He had done not good, but evil, he kept repeat- mg to himself; and so, despairingly and darkly, he went to his self-condemned doom. He never uttered a prayer. How could he pray ? Ah ! poor soul, let us then pray, when that death shot rang through the still woods, and when with a wild cry Sir George fell quivering on the grass. BENEATH THE WAVE. 177 There was no one to receive his last breath — no one to see his eyes grow dim or close them. He died where he fell — beneath the green arcade where he had dreamed his young dreams, and which waved over his still form after his wasted and mihappy life wa^ done. VOL. III. N CHAPTER XI. THE BITTKR BHD. Whsn the morning broke, and the birds b^an to stir among the trees in the woods of Massam, and the hares and rabbits to peep out their brown heads from the misty undergrowth, a harried footstep came stealthily along beneath the green arcade of trees where Sir George's body lay. He (was a hunted man^ this new-comer ; hunted, desperate. He had been a clerk, and had tried to rob his master, and the police were closely on his track. But he knew the woods of Massam, and he had lain hidden there for days; and now, desperate,! hungry, almost penniless, he was BENEATH THE WAVE. 179 about to try in the early dawn to make his escape. Suddenly, as he half ran, half tramped along, he came to the spot where Sir George lay dead. Even amid his own terror he stopped at the ghastly sight The white face and the half open eyes fixed upon the sky were terrible enough to make him, for a few moments at least, forget his fear. He knelt down and opened Sir George's waistcoat to feel if his heart were still. As he did so, the clink of gold fell upon his ears. The penniless starving man started at the sound. A second glance convinced him that Sir George was dead, and a second thought that he might a& well make the best of the chance that had fallen in his way. So he took Sir George's gold with his trembling hands. He took also the dead man's watch, his pocket-book, and his outer coat, and then fled away down the winding paths of the woods, as he had fled before. 180 BENEATH THE WAVE. And all the day passed, and no other footstep drew near. The sun rose up and shone, and the birds sang, and the sun went down, and the birds were silent, and still Sir George lay there alone. There was no one, in fact, who dared to make any inquiries about him. He had gone out, and left no word; and who was he accountable to? Thus, at least, the ser- vants argued, and thus for two days Sir George's body lay in the woods. But on the third it was discovered. A young keeper going his rounds in the early morning had his attention attracted by the whines and agitation of his dog. He turned out of his way to see what was disturbing the intelligent creature, and came upon Sir George, lying dead. Robbed and murdered. This was the verdict of all who heard the tale. Every- thing valuable about Sir George's person was gone, and the pistol also with which he had destroyed his life had disappeared. There was a hunted man who knew better, BEKEATH THE WAVE. 181 but the hunted man very naturally was silent. All the country round was searched, and the woods trampled by many feet, but no clue was ever found. The hunted man had two days' start, and he made good use of them, and of the gold he had taken from Sir George. So when Hayward and the young Spanish boy reached Massam, this tale of murder was told them. Hayward was utterly overcome by the news, and overwhelmed with grief about the death of Sir George. All the way home this yoimg man had been promising himself how he would devote his life to comfort and console his friend. He only knew Sir George's dark secret. He only, when he heard the tale of mur- der, felt doubt as well as grief in his heart. He went up alone to the gorgeously and gloomily-decked room where the remains of the rich man lay in state. Sir George was in his coflSn, but it was yet unclosed; and the stem, handsome, white face looked stem and handsome still. 182 BENEATH THE WAVE But he was not unmoumed. Hayward knelt down and kissed the cold brow and hand of his dead friend. Then in heart* felt and broken accents he began to pray. Oh 1 could he have known of the wild agony that had wrung Sir George's heart before he had gone out to die ! But he knew enough ; knew of the wearing remorse, of the passionate disappointment and pain. Before they carried him away, Hayward took up the boy, young Juan, to see his father's face. The lad showed very little sign of emotion. Somehow there was a sense of wrong in his heart, and he had already guessed the truth of the stain on his mother's name. He was a proud, handsome youth, with dark eyes, and, as Hayward had written to Sir George, with haughty and imperious ways. So he stood and looked at his dead father; and then, with undimmed eyes, turned away. BBNBATH THE WAVE. 183 But Hayward was a true mourner. With a pale, haggard, face he followed his friend to the grave. In that long proces- sion he alone knew the truth of the sad life that now was done. But before the day was over, many knew of Sir George's first marriage, and how the young Spanish boy claimed to be his heir. After the ceremony was over, the Lon- don lawyer, who had come down for the occasion, read aloud Sir George's last will. In this he formally made a declaration of his first marriage with CataUna Mendoza, and of the birth of their son. To this son he left Massam, and the chief of the princely fortune that he had inherited. But he left also a large fortune to his infant son Beginald; and to his 'Mear friend PhiKp Hayward," he bequeathed the sum of twenty-five thousand pounds^ and left him also the guardianship of his two sons; beseeching them always to look upon him with respect and affection. With surprised glances the funeral guests 184 BENEATH THE WAVE. looked at each other after the will was read. There had always been a mystery about Sir George's life, they were thinking — so this was the mystery — ^this Spanish marriage a^d this SpaihTon. And what a fortunate young fellow this Hayward had been, was the next thought that oc- curred to some of those present, who rue- fully reflected how convenient it would have been if Sir George Hamilton had left such a sum of ready money to them. But there was no one there who made any dispute about the will. Mr. Trevor was not present, though he had been in- vited to be so ; but the proud, vain old man's heart was almost broken by his daughter's shame. At first he could not believe it. " It is a lie, a horrible invention ! " he cried. But when all doubt was over, and when the proposed divorce between Sir George and Lady Hamilton was openly talked of, the sqjiire bowed his grey head, and told his wife that he thought it would kill him. BENEATH THE WAYS. 185 In vain Lucinda tried to comfort him. The squire's vanity was one of his strongest characteristics^ and his daughter's miscon- duct had wounded his vanity to the very quick. So when the news of Sir Greorge's tragic end reached Sanda^ the old man would not move in the matter. He refused to go to the funeral when asked to do so, and thus there was no one present who had any right or authority to resist the will. Young Juan Mendoza, therefore, who had hitherto borne his mother's maiden name, walked out from the room where his unhappy father's last testament was read Sir Juan Hamilton, the owner of the broad lands of Massam, and apparently in undisputed possession of his new wealth. It was a great change of fortune also to Hayward. Twenty-five thousand pounds, and one thousand a year for managing the property, made him seem ahnost a rich man. But he felt a very sad one. He had learned to care very deeply for Sir George; and his miserable story, his re- 186 BENEATH THE WAYE. morse, and his bitter gloom, had filled the young man's heart with intense pity and sympathy for his unhappy friend. But now it was all over. He could not try to lighten the burden which had been too heavy for Sir George's strength to bear. Among the many letters which Hay- ward received about this time, concerning the tragedy that had happened in the woods at Massam, was one from Horace Jervis. Hayward felt his face flush and his hands tremble when he read it. It was just like the writer, all kindness and thought for others, and here and there Hilda's name appeared. " My dear wife was with me " and so on. She was evidently a dear wife, dear and well- beloved, as she deserved to be, Hayward thought with all his heart. But this letter, nevertheless, left a sort of aching void and pain in his breast. " Do come and see us," Jervis wrote ; and aa Hayward was forced to be in town a few days after he received it, for the BENEATH THE WATB. 187 purpose of proving Sir George's will, he made up his mind to call upon his old friends. He sent in his card when he arrived at the neat, modest, well-furnished house that Jervis had taken for his wife, and while he WBB rather nervously standing in the drawing-room, expecting HUda's en- trance, a lady entered, who, for a moment, he actually thought was Hilda. ** Hilda I " he said, rather in an agitated voice, holding out his hand ; but without any agitation the lady placed her hand in his. "Mr. Hay ward T' she said, smiling, "I must introduce myself. I am not Hilda — ^Mrs. Jervis, but I am Marion Marston, Hilda's sister. I daresay you have often heard of me? At least, I have often heard of you," she added, with another smile. Upon this Hayward looked at the young lady before him, and saw one of those strange family likenesses which we some- 188 BENEATH THE WAVE. times see in faces which are yet very different to each other. In features the sisters were extremely alike, but Marion's expression waa totally different to Hilda's. It lacked the pathetic sweetness of the younger sister's, for Marion's nature had grown harder in her days of trouble, while Hilda had only become more tender and more sad. But still Marion Marston was a very good-lookmg girl. She was Kvely and agreeable also, and was bent upon making herself pleasant to Hayward. "Hilda has told me of what we owe you," she said, with some feeling in her voice — "little Ned's life, and I know not what. In fact, Hilda says that we can never repay you for all your kindness." As Marion said this she looked very kindly at Hayward ; while Hayward was wondering what made her voice so differ- ent to Hilda's. "Your sister is a great friend of mine," he said. "I trust that she is well?" BENEATH THE WAVE. 18d " Oh, yes," replied Marion ; " and she will be here directly. She is busy dis- tributing some blankets, or something of that kind, to some of Mr. Jervis's poor people. You know," she continued, with a little laugh, "I have only one fault to find with my new brother-in-law, and that is — ^he is too good." " It is a good fault," said Hayward, smiUng. " Yes," said Marion ; and she also smiled. Jervis had at least been very good to her, and Marion owed him some gratitude. He had, in fact, offered her a home, as well as little Ned ; and when Hayward first went to Jervis's house, he found that Marion lived there, and that the tired and hard- worked governess was now a welcome guest beneath her brother- in-law's kindly roof. Just when Marion Marston and Hay- ward were speaMng of Jervis, the room door again opened, and this time Hilda entered. For a moment she did not speak 190 BSNEATH THB WAVE. as Hay ward held her hand tightly clasped; for a moment a slight contraction and a pallor passed over her face^ but the next she recovered herself^ and looked up with her calm, soft, grey eyes into his face. There had passed over her expression a nameless change since Hayward had seen her. He could not tell what it was, but her face was altered. She was kind and gentle in her manner to him, and said how glad Mr, Jervis would be to see him, but everythmg she said sounded sad. Yet she never said anything sad. But she had none of the changfe and brigfhtness a ma^er which di^ti^U* .a happy woman. The petulant gaiety with which a loving wife will at times talk to her husband, was totally absent in Hilda's manner to Jervis. She was tender, gentle, and considerate to him in everything — "the sweetest, best of women," Jervis told Hayward — ^but Hayward felt somehow that all this sweetness and gentleness arose rather from duty than from love. BENEATH THE WAYS. 191 He stayed to dine with them, and every- thing in Hilda's house was arranged to perfection. She was a good housekeeper, and spared no trouble to keep everything in order. It was a pleasant Uttle dinner- party. Marion Marston exerted herself to be very agreeable, and Jervis was all kindness and geniaUty. Then, when the sisters retired together to the drawing- room, Marion began to talk of HaywanL "I declare I have half lost my heart already," she said, laughing. " How charm- ing he is ! I only wish he would take a £Emcy to me, Hilda." The younger sister suppressed a sigh, and answered kindly, '^Well, I am sure you could get no one better, my dear." '^And he's weU off, isn't he now?" continued Marion, inquiringly. " Yes," answered Hilda, slowly. " But," she added, after a moment's thought^ " don't think of him for that, dear. Philip Hayward deserves to be loved for him^ self alone." 192 BENEATH THE WAVE. '* But one must Kve, you know," said Marion, with another laugh ; and Hilda bent down her head and gave a low, soft sigh, which her sister did not hear. Strange to say, at that moment Hay- ward was sitting downstairs, wondering if Marion Marston would suit him for a wife. " She is good-looking, lively, and very agreeable," he was thinking ; and she is Hilda's sister " But this last thought did not add to her attractions in Hayward's mind. Hilda's sister — Hilda, whose sweet, grave face wore such a sad look to Hayward's eyes. But then he must not think of Hilda; and so he went up-stairs determined to be very agreeable to Marion. Marion was dehghted, and responded to his advances very eagerly. The two sat together chatting and laughing, and then Marion sang and played. Hilda was very quiet. She sat stitching, stitching on, mechanically, at some coarse, hard work. All her life had been hard, hard work. BENEATH THE WAVE. 193 she was thinking — ^yes, all her life. But she must bear it — she must go on with it —it was Gkxi's will, and she must submit. " Hilda," cried Marion, from the other side of the room, "will you go with us to-morrow to the Exhibition of Water- Colours ? I was telling Mr. Hayward about that lovely piece of woodland, painted by Horace's fnend." " Yes, I will go with you," answered Hilda ; but the patient ring in her voice, the touch of suppressed pain that she could not hide, was heard by Hayward ; and he rose from Marion's side and went and stood by Hilda. " What are you manufacturing ? " he said, touching Hilda's coarse work. " Clothes for Horace's poor," said Hilda, in her gentle way, glancing up as Hay- ward addressed her ; and as Hayward stood looking at her sweet face he sighed deeply. Yes, he had thrown away this dear woman's love, he was thinking, for what? VOL. III. o 194 BENEATH THE WATE. For false smiles that meant nothing, and for honeyed words whose very sweetness was their sting. Truly, Isabel Trevor had cost him dear. But for her "Mr. Hayward," said Marion, interrupt- ing his reverie and coming to his side, ''let us settle about to-morrow. Will you come here to lunch, and we can go to the Exhibition afterwards ? " " Yes," said Hayward, looking round, " if your sister wiU go with us." " Oh, yes, I will go anywhere," said Hilda ; and so they fixed it. All the next day Hay ward was with the sisters. Marioa evidently thought that she was making a conquest, and Hayward did not care to undeceive her. " She would do very well," he began to think. What was the good of thinking of Hilda? he ought to have, thought of her long ago. So he talked to Marion, and Hilda walked gravely and quietly beside them. Hayward stayed two days in town, and then returned to Massam. He had lived BENEATH THE WATB. 195 at the Park since Sir George's death, for an especial clause of Sir George's will had appointed him guardian to his two sons. Thus, when he arrived he was surprised by the mysterious air with which the butler received him. "Can I speak a few words in private, Mr. Hayward ? '' half- whispered the man ; and he led Hayward at once into the library, carefully closing the door behind them. " Who do you think has arrived, sir ? " he said, still lowering his voice. " Arrived ? How can I tell ? " answered Hayward. " My lady came yesterday,'* said the butler, with some small pleasure in his heart, perhaps, to be the bearer of such momentous news. "She informed us that she intends to dispute the late Sir George's will, and claim the title for her son, the infant Mr. Reginald." As the butler gave Hayward this in- formation the handle of the library door 196 BENEATH THE WAVE. turned sharply ; and when Hayward and the man looked round to see who was the intruder, Isabel, Lady Hamilton, stood on the threshold. CHAPTEE XII. A woman's proposal. Isabel came slowly forward as Hayward and the butler looked round. Her face was pale, and her expression waa determined and defiant. Some shame there must have been in her heaxt, some shrinking ; but she scarcely showed this. Yet for a moment her eyes fell when she met Hayward's indignant and scornful glance. " You are surprised to see me V she began. " Yet can you wonder at me coming here to defend the rights of my son?" '^ His rights are not attacked that I know of/' answered Hayward, briefly and coldly. 198 BBNBATH THE WAVE. "Then what about this base-born boy, who now clauns to be the heir of Massam T retorted Isabel. "He is simply Sir George's eldest son by his first marriage," replied Hayward, in the same cold tone. " And you believe this ? " said Isabel, passionately. " You believe this lie that Sir George invented to show his hate to me ! But I do not believe it," she con- tinued, " I believe this boy to be Sir George's son; but his natural son." " I cannot dispute the question with you," said Hayward. " Why ? " asked Isabel. " Leave the room," she said, in her old imperious way, to the butler. " I wish to speak in pri- vate to Mr. Hayward." " I cannot stay " began Hayward ; but with a wave of her hand Isabel pointed to the door, and the butler was thus com- pelled to go. When they were alone the expression of Isabel's face changed, and a softer look came over it. BENEATH THE WAVE. 199 " Hayward," she said, and then paused ; but Hayward never looked at her. He stood there cold^ embarrassed^ and silent — the man who had once loved her with such passionate love. " I do not plead for myself," continued Isabel, in her syren voice, glancing at Hay ward's stem face, "but for the boy. Whatever I am — ^however they may have blackened my character, little Reggy is not to blame." " You mistake the whole thing, I think," said Hayward. " Sir George before his death acknowledged his first marriage, and by his will left young Juan the heir to Massam. Aft;er his unhappy death this will was proved therefore, no one can dispute it." " I wiU, then," said Isabel, angrily ; " the will of a madman ! Hush, do not interrupt me," she continued, as Hayward was about to speak. " I know what you would say — that it is your duty, and so on. But, Hayward, is this justice ? Ton 300 BBNBATH THE WAVE. talk of Sir George's unhappy death, but what about my unhappy marriage ? Do you know how this man treated me? Cruelly, most cruelly ! He found out I never loved him; that I loved — well, I must not say — ^you would not beUeve me, I suppose — ^but, at least, that I did not love him!'' " No, I would not believe you," said Hayward, bitterly, as Isabel paused. " But why T said Isabel. " Have you heard the truth of my story ? Do you know that he turned me out of the house at Brighton ? People say that I ran away with Captain Warrington, but people were wrong ; I did not run away with Captain Warrington, but my husband thrust me out of doors." " He had good cause ! " said Hayward, with bitter indignation in his voice and manner. " Yes," said Isabel ; *'good cause — I never loved him." As Isabel said this, Hayward lifted his BENSATH THE WATS. 201 eyes and looked at the beautiful face that had brought so much ruin and shame. Isabel stood there pale and daring. She had always liked Hayward ; liked him in her cold selfish way^ and she had been so used to triumph over the hearts of men, that she thought she would triumph now. "Hayward!" she said presently; and this time her voice was very soft and low, and her bright eyes fell, and her bosom heaved. " Hayward !" " Well ? " said the young man, sharply and briefly. "Don't judge me as others judge me," went on Isabel, in the same soft pleading tones. "You, at least, should be lenient — ^you, for whose sake I could never love my husband.'' Hayward made no answer. She was lying to him, he told himself, so he let her go on. "I was unhappy," continued Isabel, aft^er a moment's pause, "unhappy and reckless. 202 BENEATH THE WAVE. I flirted with these men — ^flirted — ^and they, it wajs folly, of course, but they learnt to like me too well. This was the truth about all those stupid letters that you read from Mr. Hannaway, and, I suppose, from Captain Warrington. Do you under- stand now? Sir George was madly jealous because I had no love to give him — and I was careless and unhappy because " As Isabel said this last word she raised her eyes to Hayward's face. There was a dark red flush on his usually pale skin, and this sign of emotion emboldened her to go on. " Do you understand now, Hayward ? " she said — ^'imderstand how a woman can love, and yet sacrifice that love to pride and ambition? I did this. I was badly brought up, and I was vain and proud. I accepted Sir George — and then — ^then learnt to care for you." '* Yes," said Hayward, with a kind of gasp, "go on — let me hear the whole story." BENEATH THE WAVE. 203 "It is easily told/' answered Isabel. *'As I said, I was vain and proud — and you were poor." " A poor tutor ! " interrupted Hay ward, with quivering curling lips. "At least," continued Isabel, "you were not in a worldly point of view a fitting match for me. So I di'ove you away — that dark and dismal day in the picture gallery — and until you were gone I never knew the true feelings of my heart I I was engaged to Sir George — Abound to him by my own wish — and pride, ambition, vanity, all urged me to keep my word. I did keep it — I married — I became Lady Hamilton of Massam; and then I found out what I had flung away. I was weary of my new position and my wealth before I came back here as a bride, but most weary of the gloomy selfish man whose name I bore 1 So I was ready to rush into any folly — any madness. You know all about poor Hannaway? Shall I tell you now about Captain Warrington ? " 204 BENEATH THE WATE. "Have you any motive for telling me?" asked Hayward, in a passion-stifled voice. " Yes, I have," answered Isabel. " I wish to cleai* . myself, to a certain extent at least, in your eyes. Well, as I said, you know about Mr. Hannaway? After this affair Sir George turned absolutely to hate me ! If he could say a cruel thing, if he could do a cruel thing, he did it. At last, after Miss Marston s wedding, I could bear it no longer, and went to Brighton. This Captain Warrington was there. I flirted with him, and he flirted with me. He wrote me foolish letters, and I answered them, and was reckless and careless about being seen with him constantly in public." "Yes," again said Haywaxd, in the same husky tones. " Then one night," went on Isabel, " Sir George arrived, and ordered me, just as if I were a dog, to have my things packed, and to return at once to Massam. As we were talking, his eyes fell on a BENEATH THE WAVE. 205 ring lying on the dressing-table. It was one of the rings that dead woman wore, whose body you brought to shore at Sanda. Sir George sprang upon it like a tiger 1 Then he demanded where I got it. I refused to teU him. I was going to a concert with Mrs. Woodford and her brother, and I asked Sir George — ^mark this, please, Hayward — ^to go with me. But no. He bid me go, and then as soon as* I was out of the house he broke open my locks — read Captain Warrington's foolish letters — and, when I came back, cooUy and literally turned me out of the house I " "And you went '^ "To Mrs. Woodford. Then I went to Paris with another lady, and Captain Warrington escorted us there — ^but I did not run away with Captain Warrington, and in Paris I scarcely saw him." "And your motive for telling me all this?" again said Hayward. Isabel cast down her beautiful eyes. Then she put out one of her ungloved 206 BENEATH THE WAVE. hands^ and laid it pleadingly on Hay- ward's arm. "I am free now, Hayward," she said, almost in a whisper. "I know now how mad a thing I did before— this tune I shall not marry for ambition " As she said this Hayward turned away, and covered his face with his hand. "We are both still young," continued Isabel; "let us forget the past — let us " But with something between an exclamation and a cry, Hayward inter- rupted her," " Hush, hush ! " he said, " do not stain your womanhood any more." What do you mean ? " asked Isabel. This ! " exclaimed Hayward, passion- ately, looking round and facing her. " You have told me this long story, and for what? Because you are free, you say — free, do you mean to marry me ? " "Yes," said Isabel, though in a half- frightened tone ; for his manner was so excited and so strange. \ BENEATH THE WAVE. 207 " Then shall I tell you the truth ? " said Hayward, vehemently. " Shall I tell you that before I would take your hand in mine^ before I would call you by the sacred name of wife, I would put a pistol to my throat and end it all ! What ! " he con- tinned; "do you think I am mad? Do you think I have forgotten Sir George's broken heart and shame-stained name ? Do you think I have forgotten the smiles and looks with which you wiled me on, or the false words with which you deceived poor Han na way, and turned your hus- band's heart to gall?" " How dare you I " exclaimed Isabel, with flashing eyes and burning cheeks, as Hayward paused; "how dare you speak to me thus ? " " Because you have lost all claim to re- spect or honour," said Hayward, "Because you have been lying to me ever since you came into this room — trying to deceive me as you deceived me long ago. But a man. wakes up from his foUy sometimes," he con- 208 BENEATH THE WAVE. tinaedy with a bitter laugh. " Shall I tell you, Lady Hamilton, the day I woke up from mine? Do you remember the day when Hilda Marston was married? She was a good girl, and I had learned to love her then with a better love than I ever gave to you. But that day ended my delusion completely." " And how, pray, was that ? " asked Isa- bel, scornfully throwing back her head. " I opened the billiard-room door," an- swered Hayward, "and stood unnoticed a few minutes there. Do you understand now ? You were there, and Captain War- ^rington— the man whom you have just been telling me was nothing to you ? " As these bitter words passed Hayward's lips Lady Hamilton's face turned scarlet, and then grew suddenly pale. She saw at that moment that her power over Hay- ward was ended for ever. She had been found out. Her falseness had been brought home to her, and her cunning words had returned as stabs to her own breast. But BENEATH THE WAVE. 209 she had one weapon left, and she used it. " I have been a fool/' she said, con- temptuously, after a moment's thought. " I came into this room intending to conciliate you; intending to atone to you in some way for the disappointment that you have so often reproached me with, when you — a. tutor in a country school — forgot yourself so far as to dare to make love to me» But I had another motive," she went on vindictively, "as well as this amiable one t Can you guess what I mean ? No — I wiU tell you, then — I wished to spare the memory of Sir George ! " " How ? " said Hayward, sharply. "I am not quite an idiot, you know/' continued Lady Hamilton, "and I can lay this thing to that when I choose to do so. How about the dead woman's ring, the sight of which startled Sir George almost to madness — ^the dead woman whose body was washed to shore at Sanda, days before the wreck of Sir George's yacht — ^the dead VOL. II. p 210 BENEATH THE WAVE. woman who was Sir George's mistress — the mother of the base-born youth who claims to be his heir ? " Isabel paused after she had made this speech, and she saw in a moment that it had struck home to Hayward's heart. So she had hit the right nail on the head at last, she thought. Hayward knew Sir George's secret — ^knew of the guilty deed that she had but guessed at. " Do you see now what I mean ? " she said. **You pretended to be, or were, fond of Sir George ; do you wish his name to be branded as a murderer s ? " "You have no proof," said Hayward, quickly and passionately. *' A hundred proofe," repUed Isabel. "First, this woman's body was washed ashore days before the wreck of the yacht. Then, do you think that I could live with Sir George, and not see that he was weighed down by remorse? Do you think I heard no muttered words in his sleep that I could not understand then, but BENEATH THE WAVE. 211 which I do now ? Do you think that when he first saw that ring that he hid his guilt? With a cry he exclaimed that his sm had found him out and from that hour, I knew that Sir George had mur- dered this woman 1 " " Be silent ! be silent !" cried Hay ward, in uncontrollable emotion. "No, I will not be silent 1" said IsabeL " I will proclaim his deed ! I will blacken his name as he blackened mine, unless you will help me to do what I came here to do — protect the rights, of my son." " How can I do it ? " said Hayward. " Sir George was married to this Spanish woman, and their son was bom after this marriage. My hands are tied — I cannot help you." *' Do you know that he went down to Sanda to see her grave T said Isabel. "Do you know that Mr. Irvine thought that he was mad at least, and that the servants here all declare that for days before his death— nay, for weeks — ^he was 212 BEKBATH THE WAYK. not in his right mind ? Upon this plaa the will can be thrown aside. Sir George was mad when he made it — ^mad when he declared a marriage which in all human probability never took place." "Lady Hamilton," said Hayward, "do Hot deceive yourself. This marriage did take place. I saw the priest in Seville who married them-^the priest who had diarge, until I brought him here, of this yoimg Juan." " Then you intend to stand by the will?" said Isabel, and her lip curled. " The will that gives you twenty-five tiiousand pounds, and at the same time brands your late dear friend's name as a murderer's." "I will endeavour to do my duty, what- * ever is the consequence," said Hayward, firmly. "This, then, will be the consequence," retorted Isabel. " I mean to dispute the will. I mean — ^as you will have it so — to let the world know the truth about BENEATH THE WAVE. 213 Sir George!" And having said tiiis, Isabel turned and left the room, leaving Hayward a prey to the most miserable reflections. CHAPTER XII. A LAWSUIT, All that night Hayward never slept. How could he stop this vindictive woman's tongue, he was thinking ; how save Sir George's memory from the awful charge with which she was about to blacken it? "But, for the child's sake, for Uttle Reggy's sake, surely she will be persua- ded," at last he began to hope. So in the early morning he decided to seek another interview with Isabel. He went down to breakfast late, weary and heartsore. A little note was lying on the table, addressed to him, when he entered the breakfast-room, and the hand- BENEATH THE WAVE. 215 writing on this he at once recognized as Isabel's. Eagerly, then, he opened it, and read the following words:— "Dear Mr. Hayward, — As you have refused to help me, and are determined to stand by the will that wrongs my son and provides so handsomely for yourself, I am determined to do what I consider I have full right to do, namely, take charge of my own child. When you re- ceive this, therefore, I shall have left Massam, and taken little Reggy with me. Do not attempt to interfere with me. I understand that Sir George intended to endeavour to obtain a divorce from me if he had lived; but, luckily for Reggy and myself, he is dead, and I am not divorced, but am Lady Hamilton of Massam still. When you leave the Park, and take away the base-bom boy that you have brought there, I may return to Massam ; until then, I shall remain in town, and take immediate steps to overturn the will of 216 BENEATH THE WAVK. that unhappy madman^ whose crimes, I suppose, had upset his reason. '' I remain, yours truly, " Isabel Hamilton.' Hayward read this letter and then seized the room-bell, and began ringing it violently. The butler appeared hastily to answer his simmions. " Is Lady Hamilton gone ? " he asked the moment the man came into the room. " Yes, her ladyship left an hour ago,** replied the butler, " in time to catch the early train south. Her ladyship informed us last night," he added, '*of her inten- tions; and said that it was by your wish that she and the infant. Master Reginald, were leaving." "And she has taken the child?" said Hayward. "Yes, the child and the head nurse," answered the man ; and Hayward felt at that moment that Isabel had completely out-witted him. BENEATH THE WAVE. 217 But he was little Reginald's guardian, as well as young Juan's. He therefore determined at once to follow Isabel, and started for town two hours after she had done so. But when he got there he could not find her. He went to nearly all the principal hotels, but still he could hear nothing of Lady Hamilton. Then he went to the lawyer who had drawn out Sir George's last will. This gentleman was a jovial, smiling man, with a pleasant face and a smooth and pleasant tongue, and he listened smil- ingly to Hayward's tale. " She has no chance," he said, when the story was finished. " She may dispute Sir George's will, but unless she can prove he was out of his senses when he instructed it to be drawn out and signed it, the will will hold good. And," added the lawyer, "her own misconduct and Sir George's projected divorce from her will fittally damage any evidence she can produce.'* 218 BENEATH THE WAVE. -And you think the marriage with tUs Spanish woman — ^with young Juan's mother, can be proved ? " asked Hayward. '^ Certainly ; Sir Greorge instructed me how in the event of his death it could be proved," answered the lawyer. " There is no doubt, I suppose," he added, "that Sir George's death was a case of murder, and not of suicide ? " "Everything valuable that he had about his person had disappeared," said Hay- ward, " and there was no weapon near where he was found with which he could have inflicted the fatal wound." The lawyer looked thoughtful. " He had disappeared two days, had he not," he said, after a moment's silence, "before his remains were discovered? It would be a weak point in our case if there were any idea of suicide." " But " began Hayward, and then he, too, was silent. He was afraid, in fact to speak — afraid to think of the dark sus- picion which sometimes involuntarily had BENEATH THE WAVE. 219 crossed his mind regarding Sir George*s tragic death. "Well, we shall hear from her ladyship, I suppose, in a few days," said the lawyer. " In the meanwhile, I have no doubt that her little son is quite safe in her hands." They did hear from her ladyship in a few days. In fact. Lady Hamilton at once took formal proceedings to dispute her late husband's will. He was insane, she stated, at the time it was made, and her lawyers gave her cause to suppose that she might win her case. Sir George had been undoubtedly strange in his conduct for a long time, and after his miserable discovery of his wife's guilt, and of the dead woman's ring, at Brighton, his gloom and eccentricity had been obvious and remarkable. Then this will had been made after these events. And his sudden and violent death was also in her favour. Had he really been murdered ? Isabel instructed her lawyers to endeavour to 222 BENEATH THE WAVE. Hayward and smiled. Then Hayward was called ; but during a sharp cross-examina- tion he firmly stated his belief that Sir George was in his sane mind at the time the will was made. It was made, he said, after Lady Hamilton had left her husband, and after Sir George had deter- mined to acknowledge his first marriage with CataUna Mendoza. He had not acknowledged this until the present Lady Hamilton had left her home, and he then stated to Hayward that he had an elder legitimate son by this first marriage. This son he had left his heir, while in his sane mind, Hayward believed, and his marriage with CataUna Mendoza was an undoubted fact. But it is useless to go on with a long story, and to relate all the evidence and counter-evidence that was given during a case that lasted many days and was con- tested by the best lawyers in England. It is sufficient to tell that on the direct and simple evidence of Padre Fernandez BENEATH THE WAVE. 223 of Seville, a grey-haired and venerable priest, who had himself performed the ceremony of marriage between the unfor- tunate Catalina and Sir George, that this marriage was proved to the satisfaction of the special jury who tried the case. Thus Sir George, also, to the minds of the jury- men, had shown no signs of madness in leaving his eldest legitimate son his heir. The question of his murder or suicide re- mained unsolved, and the darker question of how the unhappy Catalina came to her death also remained a mystery. On this last point no cr««xanl.t."n extracted any information of the truth from the one person who knew. Hayward kept his dead friend's secret, and there was no one knew that Sir George had confided it to his ears. Lady Hamilton might insinuate what she liked, but Lady Hamilton had no proof to go on. The sea had swal- lowed up the only witnesses of Sir George's bitterly-repented crime. So Isabel lost her case. The twelve 224 BBNEATH THE WAYB. jurymen sympathized with the husband, dead though he was, whose wife had left him for another man, and could under- stand Sir George's gloom and his tardy acknowledgment of his first marriage when his second had ended so unhappily. In an able and powerful speech, the lead- ing counsel retained in favour of the validity of the will pointed out how this wife, who was now disputing it, had brought but shame to her husband and disgrace to her child. "She would have you believe he was mad," continued the counsel ; " the gloom that her own conduct had caused she ascribes to some hidden crime, to some dark secret, forgetting his betrayed aflfections, his blighted and dis- honoured home ! " Lady Hamilton was forced to sit and listen to these bitter words — ^was forced to sit and learn that she had lost her case, and that her shame was known from one end of England to the other. She went out from court a disgraced and \ BENEATH THE WAVE. 225 enrafifed woman; and the very man for who; she h«l s«=rificed », mad. rrfuBod. after such a public exposure, he said, to maJ^e her his wife. She was ordered also to give up the custody of her child, and furious, half-maddened, she returned to her hotel after the trial was over in a state pitiable to behold. But this unhappy disgraced woman had one visitor. During the time the case wafi pending Hayword had remained in town, and had naturally seen much of the Jervises. After it was over, and the jury had decided in favour of the will, he went to tell Hilda and Jervis of the decision. " And Lady Hamilton," said Jervis, after he had heard Hayward's news, "is there no one with her in this hour, that must be such a very bitter one to her?" " No one that I know of," answered Hayward, briefly. "No woman, I sup- pose, would now care to be seen with her." VOL. III. Q 226 BENHATH THE WAYS. Then Hilda looked at her husbandL "May I go, Horace ?"* she said. "Pel^ haps I might be of some use to her/' Horace Jervis crossed the room as Hilda spoke, and took his wife's hand in his. "Yes, go, my dear one," he said; "she will truly need someone like you to be near her now." So Hilda went. She asked for Lady Hamilton, but was told she could see no one ; and then she asked to see the lady's maid, Hitson. This woman came to her crying and tremblmg. " Oh ! • Miss Marston — Mrs. Jervis, I mean," she said, " my lady is in a fearful state ! She says she'll cut her throat, or do something to herself, and I don't know what to do." " Take me to her," said Hilda ; " I am her old friend. I will try to help and comfort her now." Then Kitson led Hilda to the room, where, pacing backward and forward, like BENEATH THE WAVK. 227 a caged wild animal, was the onoe beau- tiful and gracious Lady Hamilton. Her face was distorted with passion, and flushed and stained with bitter tears of rage and shame. She was panting and gasping, and turned round like a fury when she saw EQlda and Kitson enter the room. *' Who is that ? " she said loudly. " How dare you let anyone in here ? '' Then Hilda went forward, and in her gentle tender way tried to take Isabel's hot clenched hand. " Isabel," she said, " don't you know me? I am Hilda." " Yes, I know you ! " half screamed the miserable Isabel. "Have you come to triumph over me — come to say spiteful horrible things in pretended sympathy, like you women who set up to be good, do ? " "I am come to stay with you for a little while," said Hilda, even yet more gently and kindly. " Don't send me away, dear — we won't talk — you are tired and over excited." S28 BINKATH THE WAYS. Upon, this, the unhappy Isabel looked in Hilda's sweet, patient face ; and then saddenly burst into a passion of tears, and fell weeping on Hilda's neck. "You good women have the best of it^ I believe/' sobbed the miserable woman. "You never, at leasts were utterly for- saken, as I am now!" CHAPTER XIV. A widower's wooing. Hilda stayed many days with Isabel after this. Stayed, and tried to soothe her when she raved and tossed, and finally, when fever crept into her frame, and she lay stricken down and powerless. She was very very ill. It was low fever at first, the doctors said, and then typhus. When this word began to be whispered about, the proprietor of the private hotel where she was staying went to Hilda, and re- quested that Lady Hamilton should be removed. It seemed a hard thing to ask, the man said; but then every one must attend to his own interest. Hilda did not speak. She wrote a few 230 BBNEATH THE WAVE. lines to her husband to tell him of the intimation that she had received; and an hour later Jervis arrived at the hotel. " What shall we do, Horace ? " she asked when she saw him. "Who should be our chosen guests, Hilda ? " he answered, with his frank sweet smile. "The sick and sorrowing, dear and Lady Hamilton is both sick and sorrowing. Let us take her to our home I '' So they took the fever-stricken woman home ; Marion Marston and little Ned were sent away, and the baby Reginald Ham- ilton, but Hilda and Jervis remained, and watched and tended on Isabel for many weeks. Sometimes she knew them, and sometimes forgot all about the bitter past^ and spoke and rambled about the days when she had held her head so high. She had another watcher, too, some- times, or rather a visitor ; who once or twice went up to see her when she lay in a stupor, or rambled in her talk. BEHEATH THE WAVE. 231 This was Hayward. He forgave her then, and pitied her, and then turned away to sigh. But he loved her no more. There was another woman there, whose soul was so pure and true that he scarcely ever dared to look in her &ce; and yet that woman's presence was very dear to his heart. He saw no beauty now in the golden hair that lay uncurled on Isabel's pillow — no beauty in the straight features and the glittering blue eyes. The dark glimpses that he had seen of the soul beneath had utterly changed his feelings to her, and she was no longer lovely in his eyes. But Hilda Jervis always seemed very fair. As she moved about the sick-room, and about the house, Hayward caught himself watching and admiring her. But he always told himself that he must not admire her, and he very often went to see Marion Marston and little Ned, in the lodgings that Jervis had taken for tihem, so as to keep them out of the way 232 BENEATH THE WATS. of any infection from the fever-stricken patient lying at his house. Thus^ not unnaturally, Marion began seriously to believe that Hayward admired her. She was indeed a girl whom many men might have admired; but she was so different, Hayward always kept thinking, to Hilda. Not in appearance, for the sisters were very much alike, but there was something wanting. At all events Marion did not charm Hayward, and the more he saw of the sister he might have, the more he regretted the one he had lost. Then he returned to Massam, and shortly after he arrived there, he received a visit of congratulation on the result of the trial, from Mr. Antony Featherstone. Never had Hayward seen Antony in such full feather as he now appeared. The whole get-up of the man — his whole air-denoted ease and prosperity. " Well, you bowled her ladyship over very cleverly, Hayward," he commenced his conversation with. BENEATH THE WATS. 233 " Lady Hamilton is very ill, Mr. Feather- stone/" answered Hayward quietly. Hilda's example had impressed him too much to feel any triumph over Isabel now. "Ah, she's a cunning fox," laughed Antony. " What ! she's been trying to get over you again, has she ? Well, well, never mind she's a deuced handsome woman, and that goes a good way, you know, with us men ! " And Antony laughed again, and puUed his greyish whiskers with much self-satisfaction. " Yes, she is very handsome," said Hayward slowly. He was thinking of aU the evil that her beauty had brought — of her husband's broken heart and tragic death. "No doubt about it," said Antony cheerily. " But when a fellow thinks of marriage, he needs something besides mere good looks." And for the first time that Hayward had ever seen him do so Antony assumed an air of virtuous dis- cretion, which was highly amusing. 234 BESKAJB THE WATS. Ye&," said Hayward, smiling. But I must not foiget what I specially came for," continned Antony. " My daughter Ladnda and her husband are staying with us^ and Mrs. Smythe." '' Mrs. Smythe ? " repeated Hayward, as if he half remembered the name. ''Yes, Mrs. Smythe, of Leeholme Hall, Northumberland/' said Antony, with some- thing between a leer and a wink in his once handsome but now bloodshot eyes. " A rich widow, my boy ! What do you think of that?'' "Well, Mr. Featherstone, will it do?" said Hayward, with a laugh. "I'm willing!" answered Antony, with a loud laugh also; and to make a long story short, Hayward found this absolutely to be the case. This Mrs. Smythe was a widow, and a country neighbour of the Trevors at Sanda, and Antony had courted her, as he had courted many a rich woman before. But he did it under different auspices now. Mrs. Smythe knew nothing BENEATH THE WAVE. 235 of Antony's mortgaged acres — nothing of his difficulties and debt. She had met him at his son-in-law's, Mr. Trevor's, and the good-looking, jovial, middle-aged man had taken the widow's fancy. So she accepted Antony, and Antony now looked and spoke as if he had never had a trouble in the world. He was sorry for poor fellows in debt, and talked exactly as if he had been respectable all his days. And now he had come to ask Hayward to dine with them on a certain day that he named. "Patty sent me," he said, with another roguish look of his bloodshot eyes. " Patty ordered me to go and ask the best-looking young man in the neighbour- hood, she said — and Patty isn't a girl very easy to please, I can tell you — and like a good-natured young fellow, you know, as I am" (and Antony leered again) " I came. Well, sharp seven on Thursday, and until then, my dear lad, good-bye." 236 BENEATH THE WATS. Hayward went to dine at Peatherstone, and he could not help smiling somewhat grimly to himself as he dressed to do so. He knew well enough why he was con- sidered so good-looking now. The twenty- five thousand pounds that Sir Greorge had left him had straightened and improved his features in many eyes, he was well aware. We all really know these things, but some of us can afford to think of them with a good-natured smile. Perhaps there was some one who cared for us long ago, before the days of prosperity came ! Someone had cared for him. Hay- ward knew ; and he thought of Hilda as he dressed himself to go and dme with Patty Peatherstone. Patty and Lucinda received him with the greatest cordiality. Pine, tall, hand- some, reddish-haired Patty, had thought of Hayward since she heard of his good fortune, in precisely the same way that Marion Marston had thought of him. " He was a good-looking young man, and BENEATH THE WAVE. 237 he would do/' Patty had told her sister; and Lucinda was perfectly agreeable to assist her in her matrimonial projects. So Patty was very agreeable to Hay- ward, just as Marion was very agreeable to him. She went up to him smilingly, and introduced the stout lady, covered with black lace and bugles, who was the chosen one of reckless Antony's heart. But Antony was reckless no more. He took Mrs. Smythe down to dinner, and exerted himself to be agreeable, just aa Patty was exerting herself. The widow was not squeamish, and Antony's coarse «mplim<«te and hi^y.e.«>ned jokes we« very plesasant to her ears. The house looked very comfortable, she thought ; Patty was sure to marry, and Lucinda was well married ; and Mrs. Smythe thought that she was making a good match, as well as pleasing herself in the bargain. Only Mr. Trevor, the old pompous Squire of Sanda, did not look on very approv- ii^y. He knew where Antony's apparent 238 BENEATH THE WAVE. prosperity came from. He had lent Antony money, and he knew in his heart that Antony was deceiving the widow about his ways and means. But his good- natured Lucinda had persuaded the old man not to speak. " She has plenty for them both," Lucinda had told her husband ; and so everything went on smoothly, with Antony's court- ship. " Let me help you to a wing of this duck, my charmer, it's deliciously juicy," Antony was half-whispering to the widow during dinner, for she was a woman who loved good things, and enjoyed her meals as well as Antony's conversation. " Or just one Uttle slice off the breast, then ? " he went on insinuatingly, with his fork in the breast of the tempting bird before him, when the temporary butler, who waa waiting, mysteriously touched his arm. " What is it, Jackson ? " said Ajitony, looking round with a grand air, though there had been a time not very far away BENEATH THE WAVE. 239 when a little tap on the arm was rather alarming to him. " A person, sir wants to see you im- mediately," replied the temporary butler in a very subdued tone of voice. '^I'm engaged," said Antony, still grandly. "Ah, Mrs. Smythe," rolling his eyes at the widow, "how ttresome these people are, who are continually coming begging for some charity or other ! Say I'm en- gaged, Jackson," he repeated, looking round at the temporary butler. "I did say so, sir," said the butler, " but he won't go away" The widow heard the last words, and Antony heard them. The widow looked up curiously, and Antony looked down, and felt very uncomfortable. Then came a sort of scuffle at th^ dining-room door, and Antony rose hastily and went towards it. The guests at the table all looked round. Hayward was sitting by Patty, and he saw her face suddenly turn red and then 240 BENEATH THE WAVE. grow very pale. Then she also half rose^ but by this time Antony had quitted the dining-room^ and had closed the door behind him. A stormy interview awaited him in the hall. An old creditor whom Antony had dodged and put off for many a year^ had heard that he was at Featherstone again, and his rich son-in-law with him. The old creditor decided that this was his oppor- tunity for getting his money. He accor- dingly had arrived at the Hall' for the purpose of trying to do so, and had, as the temporary butler subsequently stated, taken "a drop too much" before he came. His wrath was therefore greatly excited when he found that a grand dinner party was going on in the house of a man who had kept him out of his money now so long. In vain the servants had tried to pacify him, in vain induce him to go away. No, he would see the cheating scoundrel, he a£5brmed, and he actually was forcing BENEATH THE WAVE. 241 his way into the dining-room, when Antony very wisely went out of it. And now he told Antony he would not go away without his money. " My dear sir," said Antony, " hush ! I am on the point of marriage," he whis- pered, dragging his importunate creditor into the breakfast-roofn, and closing the door after them ; " on the point of mar- riage with a lady of large fortune 1 Think of that — property, absolute real property in Northumberland ! " " Don't believe it," said the inebriate creditor. " But it is a fact, my dear sir !" cried Antony, in a perfect agony. Oh ! if he should miss his widow after all, he was thinking; and dew broke out on his red brow at the very idea. " I'll not stir without some of my money," said the creditor, doggedly. " But listen to reason," said Antony. "It's reason that I should have my money," repeated the creditor. VOL. III. R 242 BENEATH THE WAVE. Antony looked round in despair, and wiped his hot red face. He knew not where to lay Ids hand on any ready money at that moment, and he knew that if he went to ask his son-in-law, Mr. Trevor, tiiat the pompoua tiresome old man woiild make a hundred objections, and be so long in promising even fifty pounds that the widow must know that something mysteri- ous was happening. Then he remembered Hayward remembered tiiat he was a yomig man, and would part more easily, in all probability, with his money than an old one would ; and so he made up his mind to ask him for a small sum. *' It's a pity, on account of Patty," reflected Antony ; "but it can't be helped." So he told his creditor to wait where he was, and he would see what he could do. Then he aesut the temporary bntler with a message to Hayward in the dining room. Hayward smiled when he received this message, for he felt sure that Antony had got himself ^me trouble, and HI BENEATH THE VfAVS. 343 -wtmted Hayward to help him out of it. But the next moment he felt sorry for Fatty Featiierstone, by whom he was seated. The gpLrl's quick ears had over- heard t^e half-whispered message that her father had sent, and her face flushed deejdy, and an espreaaion of paia and annoyance passed over it. " What is it 1 " she said, with some agitation. "Your father wants to speak to me on huainess fer a minute, that is all," answered Hayward kindly ; and Patty gave him a grateful look with her bright biorwn; eyes as he said tiese few words. ** Excuse me a moment or two," added Hayward, rising; and he then left the dSAkgiomn^ and found Antony in a state P of great excitement waiting for him in the hall. "My dear lad," said Antony, seizing Hayward by the arm the moment he ap- pearec^ " can you do me a little favour ? . faliow^^ftif drank, of ooicw©— that I 244 BENEATH THE WAVE. owe a trifle to, wants me to settle with him on the spot. I haven't the sum in the house, and old Trevor — jou know what a pompous old fool he is — ^would be an hour before he got his cheque book out. So would jou mind just giving me a little accommodation, and I'll settle with you to-morrow ? " Hayward laughed, and drew out his pocket-book. "I have an unfilled cheque here, by chance," he said. "How much do you want ? " Antony's eyes sparkled with delight. " Thank you, my good lad I " he ex- claimed. "Ah, well ^you may as well fill it in for a hundred pounds. " "Won't fifty do, Mr. Featherstone ? ^ asked Hayward. " Yes, fifty would do, " admitted Antony, with a sigh. So Hayward gave him a cheque for fifty poimds, and in a few minutes Antony got rid of his creditor, and returned with Hayward to the dining- \ BENEATH THE WAVE. 245 room, trying his best to look as if nothing had happened. "Excuse me, my dear lady," he said to Mrs. Symthe, "but I was called out on some business connected ^with the ah, the parish and I was forced to get my young friend Hayward there to help me. " "Parish business?" repeated the widow. "Then I hope you are a good churchman, Mr. Featherstone ? " " I hope so," said Antony ; but he could not resist giving a roguish leer with his bloodshot eyes at Hayward as he spoke. In the meanwhile, Hayward had again seated himself by Patty Featherstone's side. The girl looked at him very kindly, but she was nervous and excited. She guessed exactly the transaction which had been going on outside the dining-room door. She saw, too, by both their faces, that Hayward had helped her father, and she therefore felt very grateful. This little affair, in fact, that Antony had feared 246 BENEATH THE WAVE. would destroy his daughter's chances with Hayward, made Hayward like Patty fiur more than he had ever done before. Both Lucinda and Fatty had a kind of honesty about them, which was very taking. They came straight to the pcmit whatever they were going to say, and the next time Patty saw Hayward after his little accommodation to her father she thanked him openly and frankly. ** I got it all out of the old maii^ * she said. ^'I was sure there was some trouble or other going on when he went out ; and I shall never forget your kind- ness, Mr. Hayward." "What nonsense," said Hayward good- naturedly, " a mere trifle like that !" "Don't you get into the way of accom- modating him with trifles like that," con* tinned Patty. " Poor old dad 1 I belieTS there never was such a reckless old man before." " And what about the widow ? Is it settled ? " asked Hayward with a laugh. BENEATH THE WAVE. 247 " Oh, I believe it's all right/' aiiswered Patty, " but somehow I don't quite take to my future stepmother." " No ? " said Hayward ; and he looked at Patty thoughtfully. She was a fine girl, straight and tall, and with an honest, good-natured, o^pien fece. She was not very refined. She lacked, Hayward thought, a kind of grace which some much {Gainer specimens of womanhood possess. She had a l<md laugh, and a loud (dear voices But ^le was a good girl, he believed, aiid would make -a good wife. He liked her better than he liked Marion Marston, and he had made up his mind that he wanted a wife. This conversation took place some three or four days after the dinner party at Featherstone; when Antony had been called out by his mebriate creditor. It took place o&e morning at Featherstone, and during it Hayward stood and looked thoughtfully at Patty. Perhaps a little 248 BENEATH THE WAVE. thing might have turned the scale, for small threads sometimes pull our destinies in very diflferent directions from what we originally intended them ; but just as Hay- ward was contemplating Patty, Antony and his widow walked somewhat abruptly into the room. Antony looked quite delighted, and the widow was apparently rather fluttered. " Ha, ha, ha ! " laughed Antony, *' you will never guess, you young folk, where we middle-aged ones have been?" Mrs. Smythe bridled at this, and cast down her eyes. " Really Mr. Featherstone " she said. "Yes, really y my dear," continued jovial Antony, looking at his daughter. " What do you mean, papa ? " said Patty, rather crossly. " We've done it ! " said Antony. " Come Patty, kiss your new mother. We were married half-an-hour ago, and by this time old Woodford will be telling it all over the place ! " BENEATH THE WAVE. 249 This startling news was perfectly true. Antony had got such a fright when he was called away from the dinner-table a few days before by his inebriate creditor, that other mischaaces might arise, that he had wooed the widow with what might be called almost desperate affection. His circumstances, he felt, justified him in this ; and the ardour of his devotion was re- warded. Antony would not wait — ^in fact, Antony could not. " Something might come be- tween us," he truthfully urged. " Patty might object — the lawyers, hang them ! might make delays. No, let us get married, and nothing can part us then ! " The widow — ^unfortimately for herself — listened with too tender an ear to Antony's eager persuadings. He wanted her money, and pleaded for it with passionate affection. Poor Mrs. Smythe believed he wanted herself, and so without any settlements she married reckless Antony Peatherstone ! " I've got it at any rate now," whispered .J "lUm*. CHAPTER XV. A TELEGBAM. Hatward saw a great deal of Patly Featherstone after her father's second mar- riage. She was constantly meeting him m the lanes and walks about Featherstone and Massam^ and was always very lively and agreeable to him. Hayward liked her very welL This was just one of those affabs which might have ended in matri- mony, if nothing had happened to prevent it ; and the probability is that these two would have jogged on together smoothly enough along life's troublesome way. It was not, and never could have been, a real affection. Not one of those absorbing atta<5hment8 which end in great happineas 252 BSNSATH THE WATS. or misery. These come once in a lifetime; but Patty's feelings to Hayward and Hay- ward's feelings to Patty can come many a time. In £Etct, most yonng men, and most young women, who do not many in their first youth, have had various small loves and smaU diaappointmente, before they finally settle for good or ilL So Hayward often saw Patty, and thought of her sometimes ; but then he had many other things to think o^ also. The management of the large estates entrusted to his care was no light task, and the management of the boy, the young Sir Juan, was also by no means easy. This lad, with the proud haughty Span- ish blood flowing in his veins, had been kept in better order by his late guardian, the venerable Padre Fernandez. This old man had intended the youth to enter the Catholic Church ; but now all this was changed. Young Juan knew of the great fortune that he had inherited, and was careless and impatient of control. At last BENEATH THE WAVE. 253 Hayward decided that it would be better to apply for him to be made a ward of Chancery. This finally was done, and the lad sent to Eton ; but before all this could be arranged, Hayward had his own troubles with the young Spaniard. He frequently heard from Jervis and Hilda during this time. Lady Hamilton still continued very ill. Sometimes Hilda wrote hopefully of her chances of recovery, and sometimes there seemed to be no hope She lay there watched, and tended, and prayed for just as if she had been a good woman, and a joy and blessing to her household and her home. Hour after hour Jervis used to pray or sit beside her, hoping and trusting to win back this poor strayed soul. But all still seemed very dark to Isabel. She could not forget her beauty, her triumphs, and her bitter and sudden fall. She used to tell Hilda of women whom she knew, who were far worse than she had ever been, who still held their heads high in their places in 254 BENEATH THE WAYS. the world. She could not repent. She lay there, alike dreading to die and to live. Her pride, her vanity, made her shrink fixHn once more facing the world that she knew would receive her badly, and she dare not face that Eternal one, where she had no fnend. It was a miseraUe state oi mind, and her mind re-acted upon her fevered and enfeebled frame. Truly she had sown the whirlwind and reaped the storm. At last there came better accounts to Massam. Some of the worst symptoms were passing away, Hilda wrote; and they began to hope that her originally fine constitution would triumph over the wast- ing effects of disease, and bitter mortifi- cation and pain. All this while — during her whole illness — ^her father had taken not the slightest notice of her existence. When she lay at the point of death Jervis had thought it was his duty to write to Mr. Trevor, a»d inform him of the dangerous condition BENEATH THE WAVE. 255 in which his daughter was. But the vain, pompous, hard old man had replied in a few bitter words. He wished to hear nothing further of a daughter who had disgraced herself so deeply, he wrote, and begged to iaform Mr. Jervis that Lady Hamilton was already dead to him. HiB kindly Ludnda .««, however, not SO hard. She secretly wrote to Hilda to know if Isabel had everything she re- quired in the way oi attendance, &a ; and she heard almost daily through Fatty, from Hayward, how Lady Hamilton was going on. She used to tell this news regularly to her old husband. The squire was human, after all ; and, though he was too proud to admit it to a stranger, he couM not feel quite insensible to his daughter's condition. No word was hard enough from the squire's lips when speaking oi Isabel, but stiU he never reproved his good-natured Lucinda for telling him how she was. 256 BENEATH THE WAVE. " She is getting better now, they hope, " at last said Lucinda. " She had better have died, ^ replied the squire, bitterly. Tet he did not quite feel this. He could not quite forget the beautiful girl of whom he once had been so proud. Isabel had stained her name, and brought shame to his vain old heart ; but she was his child still. I think he loved his Lucinda better than he had ever done, for her kindly words and thoughts of this &llen one. A few days after the news had come to Massam that Lady Hamilton was better, Hayward was startled one morn- ing by receiving a pressing telegram from Hilda. '* Come to town at once, " were the words it contained. "Horace wishes to see you immediately. " Was Isabel dead? was his first thought. He knew that a sudden turn for the worse might carry her off at any time. BENBATH THE WAYS. 257 and this idea was a shock to him. He had loved her once. He had given her what he could never give again — ^the chivalrous devotion of his young man- hood — ^the first deep passionate affection of a warm and sensitive heart. And was she dead — gone out on the lonely journey that we must all take? Hayward's eyes grew moist, and his hands trembled when he received this telegram, and believed that Hilda had sent it, so as to break the melancholy news. He went up to town by the first train that he could catch, and drove direct, on arriving there, to the Jervises' house. The servant who opened the door looked distressed, but she said nothing, but ushered him into the dining-room, and a few minutes later Hilda appeared, but paused almost as she crossed the threshold of the door. " Don't come near me, Philip, *' she said, with a sad ring in her sweet voice, " it is wiser for you not *' VOL. HI. B 258 BKNKATH THS WAYS. ''Why?" asked Bfayward advandng. " Is — is. Lady Hamilton dead ? ** «' Oh no, " answered Hilda, '' but I have sad news — ^we fear that Horace has taken the fever. ** CHAPTER XVI. NEAR THE GATES. " Horace ! " repeated Haywaxd, after Hilda had told her ill news. " Yes," said Hilda, slowly, and she sat wearily down on a .^ nir tte door, a. if she were quite worn out. "He has not been well for days," she continued. ** I have noticed how tired and depressed he seemed, and this morning he saw the doctor and and " "Well, we must hope he will throw it off," said Hayward, kindly. " I am glad that you sent for me, Hilda." " It was by his wish," said Hilda. " As soon as he heard that he had taken the fever he asked me to telegraph for you." 260 BENEATH THE WAVE. ''Yes?" '*And he has asked several times for you but at the same time, if you have any fear " " I have none," said Hayward. '* I shall be glad to go to' him at once." So Hilda led the way to her husband's bedroom, and as Hayward entered it and looked at Jervis, a certain feeling of awe came over his heart. Jervis was asleep — an uneasy, fevered sleep. As they stood and looked at him he moaned and tossed. Then he opened his eyes, which had a far-away look in them, unlike their usual cheerful and serene expression. " Horace ! " said Hilda, gently ; and at the sound of her voice something of the old familiar look stole back. " My dear one," he said, and held out a hot thin hand. '' Do you see Mr. Hayward ? " said Hilda. Then Jervis looked at Hayward, and a BBNEATH THE WAVE. 261 faint quiver, and then a faint smile, passed over his lips. " I am glad you have come. Thank you for coming, Philip," he said the next minute. *' But I'm sorry tg find you ill, Horace," said Hayward. Then Jervis smiled again — a strange, solemn smile. "I have received my summons, Philip," he said, quietly. " I believe I am going to eternal rest." There was no fear in the young man's voice — ^no shrinking. He was going to rest, and latterly there had been some dis- quiet, some sharp pangs of mental pain within his heart. "Oh, Horace!" wept Hilda, "do not talk thus do not leave me " Again Jervis smiled. '*It is all for the best, dear one," he said. " Our Father in heaven is watching over us now." " But, Horace," said Hilda, kneeling 262 BENEATH THE WAVE. down by the bed, and taking his hand, " why do you think this ? Do you feel so very ill?" . " Yes," answered Jervis, slowly, '* and I have much to do in the Uttle time that I have left. This is why I sent for you, Hayward," he continued, looking at Hayward. ''You must not leave this poor little woman alone in her time of trouble." *' I will do anything. What can I do ? " asked Hayward, much affected. "First, I want you to help me to make my will," said Jervis. " I will tell you what I want to do, and then will you draw a rough draft out, and take this to some lawyer, and have it properly pre- pared, and then bring it to me to sign ? " " Of course I will," said Hayward, speak- ing brusquely and shortly to hide his emotion. " Go, dear Hilda, then, until this is done," said Jervis. " It would only be painful to you, and I wish to see Hay- ward alone." BENEATH THE WAVE. 263 Then Hilda left him, with stareaming eyes; and after she was gone, in a cabn clear voice Jervis told Hayward how he wished his moderate fortune to be left. Everything to Hilda — but he also left certain directions and bequests regarding his many charities. To these he prayed "his dei wife" to continue his suLrip- tions, and left in her hands the sacred trust to give, as far as her means went, to those who needed. It was a very simple will, and Hay- ward wrote down Jervis's words just as he spoke them. Then Jervis said a few words about Lady Hamilton. *' Don't let her drift ftirther down, Philip," he said. "She will live now, the doctors say, so stand by her, and act as her friend." "But " hesitated Hayward. "Kemember the poor weak woman has an everlasting life to live," urged Jervis. Try to make her not forget this — ^you and Hilda — ^try to keep her straight by 264 BENEATH THE WAVE. being her friends, now when she wiU have so few." Hayward thought a moment, then he said — "I will try/' " That is right," said Jervis, with some of his old frank manner. "And now," he added, after a few moments' thought, "I have a few words to say to you, Hayward — ^that you m\ist remember are spoken now, becaiise I do not know how long speech may be left to me." "What are they, Horace?" " About Hilda," said Jervis ; and for the first time his voice faltered. " About the dear woman 1 have loved too well '' " Too well " repeated Hayward, as Jervis paused, evidently deeply affected. " Yes, too well," he said, solemnly and slowly, as soon as he had recovered him- self sufficiently to speak; "for my love blinded me ^to the feelings of her heart." BENEATH THE WAVE. 265 " What do you mean ?" asked Hayward, sharply. " The bitterness is passed," said Jervis, as if he were thinking rather than speak- ing. " But I know now that for her sake 1 am better gone " " Why do you say so ? " said Hayward, almost passionately. "Because," answered Jervis, "because 1 learnt too late that this dear woman this woman, whose love was so pre- cious to me ^whose love I believed was entirely, most truly my own ^had yet a secret from me " " What ? " said Hayward, sharply, as Jervis paiised. " A secret that she had 'kept, because she thought it was her duty to keep it," continued Jervis. " Can you guess now, Hayward, what I mean ? " Hayward was silent, but a deep red Audi spread over hi, &«. " I see you guess," said Jervis ; and for a moment a pang darted into his heart. 266 BENEATH THE WAVE. But the next, the serene faith of the man triumphed over this momentary weakness. '' She is a good girl," he said, " good and pure, and it was by no fault of hers that I learnt that what she gave to me -was not-Hayward, what she gave to you '' " Do not speak of it," said Hay ward, much agitated, and beginning to pace the room. "In a little while,** continued Jervis, with a ring in his voice so holy and so sweet that Hayward ever after remembered it, " for her, the sorrow for my death will be over. This is why I have con- quered the weak ^the last weak mortal pang that will stab my hearts and God has given me strength to conquer it. Do not think I did not suflfer, Hayward. She was the one woman I had ever loved but I loved God. He comforted me. His love is all sufficient for me. He has given me strength to tell you this ; after I am gone, you must love Hilda." BENEATH THE WAVE. 267 " Oh ! hush ! hush ! " cried Hayward. For a moment or two there was silence in the room after this. Then once more, in that sweet and ringing voice, Jervis continued : — " It was shortly before Lady Hamilton's illness that I learnt this. It was by a simple incident — ^accident I cannot call it. You had left your photograph lying on the table for Marion. I was sitting read- ing behind the window curtain in the dining-room, and Hilda came in. She never saw me. She took up the photo- graph and — and 1 watched her look at it, as she had never looked at me. Then she lifted it up, and pressed her Ups against it, and then the next moment flung it passionately down. I will not go on. Next I heard a woman praying, Hayward — praying that she might always make me happy — ^asking Grod there on her bended knees to give her strength to conquer the feelings of her heart ! It waa a bitter moment — ^nay, I will not 268 BENEATH THE WAVE. deny it but ^but with God's grace I bore it With God s grace I am able to tell it to you now." As Jervis ceased speakings a sob broke the silence in the room — a passionate, heart-wrung sob from Hayward. " I 1 ^told her once, " he said, in a faltering and broken voice, "that your heart was half in heaven, but but I never knew before there was a man on earth who lived so near to God. " • • • • • After a little while Hilda came into the sick room, and Hayward left it. There was no trace on Jervis' face, when Hilda returned, of the painful and unsel- fish words he had just spoken. Its sure serenity had always been one of the characteristics of this man s faith, and a great calm seemed to fall upon his spirit now. He had conquered the last mortal weakness of his heart when he told Hayward of Hilda s love ; and his last days were spent in perfect peace. BENEATH THE WAVE. 269 He did not linger long. The unhappy woman beneath his roof — ^the vain and beautiful Isabel — ^had lain for many, many weeks on her bed of fever and of pain. But the pure-souled Jervis had a brief passage to the grave. Before he went he sent a message of farewell to Isabel by Hayward, and she wept some very bitter tears when she received it. " What, dying I " she said. " It cannot — cannot be ! " " I fear there is no hope, '' answered Hayward, much overcome. Then Isabel cried out, "He is too good to live ! and I have killed him ; I 1 brought this fever to his ho\ise, miserable woman that I am ! " "He is fit to go — ^he is truly fit to go, Isabel, " said Hayward, trying to say some kindly words to her. " Let this console you, Jervis need have no fear." But Isabel would not be comforted. She cried and moaned until Hayward began to fear some serious consequences 270 BENEATH THE WAVE. to her own health would be the result. He hinted this to her, and Isabel grew afraid. ^'I dare not die/' she said shudderinglv. "Hay ward, I dare not die!'* It was close on midnight when Jervis left them. For some hours he had been apparently insensible, but just brfore the end came, he opened his eyes and looked at the tear-stained faces gathered round his bed. He moved his lips as if to speak, but his voice was gone. Then he looked at Hilda and at Hayward. He smiled, and with a last effort held out his hand. They both clasped it — both held it faat dux4g the next few momente —for in these next few moments the angels came for the soul of Horace Jervis. CHAPTER XVIL ''THERE ARE NO TRICKS IN PLAIN AND SIMPLE FAITH.** During the next dark dreary days — ^the days when the good man's earthly form lay still in the home which he had truly made a shelter to the homeless, there were bitter, bitter tears shed for Horace Jervis. The young widow, with her hands clasped over her hot and swollen eye-lids, lay in her darkened room crushed down with self-reproach and grief. Ah, had she known of his last tender thoughts — of his unselfish words to Hayward — what would she have felt? As it was, she recalled, with bitter and heartfelt regret, his con> 272 BE9KATH THE WATK. stant kindneas, his unfiulhig consideratioa and affection for h^sel£ And had she £Euled ? How often she asked herself this question. Had she ever by look or word betrayed her secret — the secret that she had hidden in her breast^ — and straggled with so long and sorely? She knew not, and guessed not^ that the good man who had left her had learned itm ; that it had been a bitter blow to him. Jervis had never even hinted this to her. She had watched and waited on him, and when his last hours drew nigh, almost with awe she had seen his calmness, his peace, his serene and perfect joy. Once or twice in her sorrow she cried out, when he was giving her some directions about duties to be fulfilled after he was gone. "Oh! Horace," she said, with streaming eyes, "have you no regret at leaving me alone?" " I am not leaving you alone, my dear one," he had answered, " I am leaving you in the care of God." BENEATH THE WAVE. 273 He knew at that moment he was leaving her an earthly protector also, but he said no word of this. It was better for her, he thought, that she should not know, and as he had lived, thinking of others, so he died. There was a long procession followed him to his grave. But of whom did it consist? Not of the rich or the great of the vast city where he had toiled. In that long procession were the widowed, the fatherless, and the fallen — ^to all of whom he had been a fnend. There was one poor girl — one of those gay daughters of sin — a girl yet young and handsome, whom Jervis had tried most earnestly to save. She heard of his death, and when he lay in his coffin she came to his house, and asked to look upon his face once more. Her message was taken to Hilda ; but Hilda had learned from the lips that now were closed, "that most excellent gift of charity," and she sent down a few kind words to her erring sister. VOL. III. T 274 BfiNEATH THB: W^AiYE. So the gid wenti upstairs and looked on his dead hce. Then she fell down by the side of the coflSn, crying: and. weeping, saying that it wsb the &ce of an ang^l, and from that hour she would! ain no more. She followed him to his grav^* Dressed in mourning) and caying bitterly,, sha stood by while the solemn and beautiful words of our funeral service, were read, in a broken and teaihchokedi voice by one of the many who had loved Jervis well;. Then^ just at the last £^e sprang forward^, said flung a great bunch of blue forgetrme^nots into the gra.ve. '•' I will never forget you ! " she cried« ''You were a good man — you tiied to save me — ^and your words shall not be lost ! " She kept the promise that she madfe beside his grave. In after days Hald% who had heard of this incident, helped hai^ and stood by her faithftdly as a friend* Thus many of his good deeds lived after BSKEATH THE YTATB. 27$) faim, and his' namia was blessed when he had long, been/ dead: When the first bitter days of bereave^ ment were past, Hilda and Lady Hamit ton went to a quiet spot by the seaside. Change was necessary for them both, the- doctors told Hilda, and Isabel was only too glad to learn that she might go. She was recovering from her dangerous illness slowly and feebly. But the sea- air worked wonders for her, and in a- little while the bloom began to steal back to her lovely face. When she saw this she grew inwardly restless, and impatient of the seclusion in which they lived. She hailed, therefore, joyfully the news that Hayward was coming to see them after they had been about a month at the little sea-washed spot on the coast, which- he had chosen as a^ fitting retreat for Hilda during the first weeks of her widowhood. 276 BENEATH THE WAVE* Hilda, watching Isabel, saw her on the day that Hayward was expected throw aside the dress that she usually wore, and don a more becoming one. Then she began twisting her golden hah- into some new fashion, and brought out her rings and ornaments. It was like a glimpse of the Isabel of old — the Isabel who had tried to wm the admiration and love of eveiy man who approached her. But Hayward when he came scarcely looked at her. He looked at the sweet sad face beneath the widow's cap, and saw at once how ill, anxious, and weary Hilda still looked. After the ordinary greetings between the three had passed, Isabel rose somewhat restlessly. "My dear Hilda," she said, speaking and acting like the Isabel of old, and so unlike the terrified and trembling woman that he had seen lying on her sick-bed, that Hayward could scarcely help smiling, "I would like to have a few words on BENEATH THE WAVE, 277 business matters with Mr. Hayward — if you don't mind leaving us alone ? " Hilda's face flushed, but she at once rose to comply with Isabel's request. " Why should Mrs. Jervis go away ? " said Hayward, quickly. " She knows of everything that we can have to talk about." It was now Lady Hamilton's turn to flush, but she answered Hayward coldly and haughtily — '*You forget, I think, that by that last insane will. Sir George left you the guardian of my son ? " *'No, I do not forget that," said Hay- ward ; but by this time Hilda was at the room door. ** Let me know when you have finished your conversation," she said quietly ; and Bhe left the room as she spoke. Then Isabel took a turn across it, as if she were thinking, but presently stopped before Hayward. " Well," she said, " about the boy ? Do 278 BSmATH TBB WA^ you mean to Imng him up to hate his mother T ''No, certainly not," answered Hajward, energetically. ''And I trust and hope, Lady Hamilton," he added, "that you will give me no cause to wkth to do so.** "You mean you hope 111 torn good, and walk in the straight path, eh. Hay- ward ? " said Isabel, with a Uttle uneasy laugh. "Yes," said Hayward, "I mean, I hope, ihsA none of us will forget — what ought, what must be a lesson to us all — ^the death of Horace Jervis." For a moment Isabel was silent. Then she said, "He was a good man ; the only good man, Hayward, that I have ever known." " He ^he was " began Hay- ward, but he could not go on. The memory of Jervis's last unselfish words to h^, of his last hand-clasp, utterly overcame Mm, and he ^ei '.way h^ ^head to hide his emotion. BENEATH THE WAVE. 279: "But we can't all be like Mr. Jervis," said Isabel, preseirtly. "He waa iom good, I suppose, just like most of «iis are bom — ^the 'Other thing ? " Hayward did not speak. "But I was not bom good" continued Isabel ; " and, in truth, Hayward, I am quite weaiy of Uving this quiet Ufe down here." " Where do you wish to go ? " 'asked Hayward. "Abroad tpeople won't cast up iheir hypocritical eyes quite as much at me there, yon know. And as I shall be pretty well off as regards money " **Yes, you will be well off as aregards mcoaey, " said Hayward, as Isabel paused. " But, Lady Hamilton " " Well, what have you got to say ? " said Isabel. "Shall I tell you," continued Hayward, in a trembling voice, "what the good iBEan w^o is gone .said io me about you before he left iis?" 280 B£N£ATH THE WAVE. '' No, no/' said Isabel hastily ; '' I would rather not hear, it will only make me uncomfortable." '^ But he charged me solemnly/' said Hayward, '^to look after you. He said I was always to be your friend, and if you go away, Isabel " "You think I will go to perdition, no doubt?" said Isabel again, with that light uneasy laugh. ^' But," she added, after a moment's thought, "for the boy's sake I won't do that — ^perhaps for your sake, though you have not been over kind to me — but I can't stand the dulness here." "But," hesitated Hay ward, "you are a widow now — ^would it not be the best and wisest thing that you can do to marry Captain Warrington?" " To marry Captain Warrington ! " re- peated Isabel, her face turning suddenly scarlet. "Do you know what that coward wrote to me, Hayward, on the day the trial went against me ? He who ought BENEATH THE WAVE. 281 to have stood by me ! He wrote to say that after such a public exposure he must decline to have anything further to say to me ! What do you think of that ? ^ she continued, passionately. " It was a gentlemanly action, wasn't it?" "It was a cowardly action," said Hay- ward, *'to strike you then, but '' "Oh, yes, I know what you mean," said Isabel, still in a rage. "You mean that perhaps I would have married you before that if you had asked me? So. I would ^but he didn't know it, and he behaved like a scoundrel." "We will not discuss it then," said Hayward. "What I meant was, you would be better married." Isabel laughed. " I had a happy experience, hadn't I ? " she said. " No. I am free now, and for a while at least I mean to remain so." Then she began asking Hayward about her money, and how it was to be sent, and making other arrangemente for Uying 282 BENEATH THE WATE. entirely abroad. In vain ^Hgqrward argued with her. ^^ I meaai to go,'" she said, looking at him, smiEngfy. *"WiH you ^^eome over to Paris to see nxe, or do you ^Ihirik I am too wicked for you 1;o trust yourself with mer* "I hope Ttot,*' «aid Hay ward, gravely. But be saw it was no use. Isabel meant to go. She was weary, as ^e ?did Hay- ward, 'df living with SBEilda. *'^he is 'always ^thiiifcing;" sflie said, ^' and I liate >feo thirik. ^So T want to live where I shall iiave no time to do so." And thus lihe went away. -She was a little — just a very little affected wiien she parted with HUda. *' Good bye," she said, «nd she kissed Hilda's c^heeks, wOiich ^was a rare action of hers. '"You have been very kind to me you are not a bad kind of young woman and I suppose by-and-bye, you and Hayward will be making a mattch of BENEATH THE WAVE. 288 " What folly, what nonsense I" said Hilda, blushing scarlet." " Oh, I dare say it will all come right," said Isabel, "and then sometimes rU come over, and see you and Reggy." Long afterwards Hilda told Hayward of Isabel's parting words about her little boy. And they often talked of them. These words left them a kind of hope -a hope, which, as time went on, and rumours of Isabel's Ufe reached their ears— that they clung to in vain; for she has never come baok. She lives in Paris, and when good women speak of the beautiful Lady HamUton they cast down their eyes and sigh. But there are other women who envy her — envy her beauty, her diamonds, her gay, careless, and easy life. But these women were not with her when she lay in the darkened room in Jervis' house in her deadly pain. They were not with her when she was ashamed to live, and afraid to die. She hates to think, she told Hay- ward; but sometimes dark thoughts must 284 BENEATH THE WAVE. come back to her. Sometimes the skele- ton that she hides away so well — Chides beneath her gay attire, her laughter, and the excitement and whirl in which she lives must shadow-like re-appear, warning her that the day will come when the dark hours of dread and fear will ine- vitably return. But twelve months or more had passed away after Jervis's death before Hilda told Hayward that Isabel had spoken of coming back to see her little child. By this time Hayward had asked Hilda to be his wife. He did this even then with a certain feeling in his heart that he was speaking too soon. But he had a reason for doing so apart from Hilda. This reason was that Marion Marston, who had lived with her sister during the last eight or ten months, had once or twice given Hayward what she called "a hint." As we have seen, Marion Marston lacked in a very great degree, the sensitive and BENEATH THE WAVE. 285 refined temperament that distinguished her younger sister Hilda. So as she thought that Hayward came too much about the house without ever distinctly saying what he came for, and as she cherished certain ideas about becoming Mrs. Hayward her- self, she contrived to allow him to see pretty clearly that she did so. But if Hayward had ever thought of her she ended her chances on the day when she gave him her "hint." Hay- w«d laugh^ at the time, said «>metl4 pleasant, and then turned away. But the next time he went to the house he asked Hilda to be his wife. When the faltering words had passed his lips — faltering and broken, yet under- stood by the blushing and agitated woman who listened to them, — Hilda was silent for a moment, and then looked up into his face, and held out her hand. " Oh ! PhiKp,'' she said, " is it not too soon to forget ? To — ^to be so happy — " "-He, too, is happy, my dear, and he 286 wished it," answered Hajwaucd; and as lie i^oke Hilda's head fell on the iHieaat of the man wfaoia she had loTed so fidth- faDj and so wdL 