FALLEN FORTUNES CHAPTER I, AFTER THE CHARADES. It is night, and the moon is rising over crag and coppice in its fulness, making all things, as is commonly said, “ as light as day.” Its silent, silvery splendours do not, however, vie witt the golden glories of noonday, but have a radiance of thei\ own, infinitely more enchanting as it gleams on wood and wave. Never does Nathay look so charming as when its smooth, swift stream mirrors the moonbeams, or steals coyly from them in eddy and pool beneath its bush-fringed banks. Never do the tall crags of Bleabarrow stand so grandly out as beneath this harvest moon. How distinctly does every giant boulder assert itself, every heather-clad knoll, and every mountain ash that leans aslant out of its rocky cleft, like a flag at a ship’s stern in calm ! To one who observes her closely. Nature has at this time a listening air ; the giant boulders, in their statuesque magnificence, seem to be awaiting something, the utterance, it may be, of some magic charm that shall confer a wondrous trans- formation ; the ash is leaning and listening ; even the tufts of heather stand stiffly up, as though in expectation. If he be alone in such a scene, Man himself mechanically listens also ; and to some a voice is vouchsafed — uncertain, vague, yet pregnant, so it seems, with eternal mysteries ; and by others there is no sound heard, save the whisper of the wind among the trees, or the murmur of the stream as it hurries to the fall. “ Listen, Kitty, listen ! Is it not pleasant to hear the Nathay tumbling over the weir in a night like this ? ” The speaker is a plump, fair girl in a housemaid^s dress, who is standing at an open window of a mansion commanding a view of the weir, and she addresses one of her own age and sex who is leaning over the window-sill beside her. To judge from the attire of the latter, which is a neat and cheap one, such as is bought for solid merit, as respects its washing qualities, rather than for pattern and texture, and by the little apology B 2 FALLEN FORTUNES. for a cap, made oub of imitation lace, that crowns her rich brown hair, yon would conclude her to be of the same station as her companion ; but Kate has an air of refinement that tho other lacks. They are both, however, what even bachelors, who have arrived at tho critioal age, would term pretty girls ; and if Mary (for that is the speaker’s name) is inclined to bo stout, that is no defect, so far as my poor judgment goes, in a pretty housemaid, but generally bespeaks content and good-nature. She is evidently one of those who do not “ work their fingers to the bone ” in the performance of her household duties, for her hands are smooth and delicate, while it is equally plain that her occupation lies within doors, for her complexion is as soft as cream, and almost as white. Her neck, too, though marred by the presence on either side of it of a large blob of mosaic gold in the shape of an earring, is free from roughness or sunburn ; and its delicacy contrasts prettily enough with the gay cotton handkerchief pinned above her bosom, in that old-world modest fashion which is rarely seen in these days, even when modesty is affected, as upon the stage. Upon the whole, we would say that Mary is a superior young person in her rank of life, and that her mistress is an easy one, and leaves her plenty of leisure to adorn and preserve her charms ; and woe be to the susceptible head gamekeeper (one would go on to prophesy) who, in his watchful rounds to-night, should behold that pleasant vision as she gazes out on Kathay’s stream and crags. Kate, like Mary, is a blonde; but the resemblance between the girls goes no further. She is a year or two younger 'than her companion — indeed, unusually young for one in domestic service — and has an air of delicacy so pronounced, that it only just falls short of the appearance of ill-health. Her cheek-bones might be termed too high, and her frame too angular, if it were not that Kature has not yet done wiiii her. Her beauty is at present in the budding stage, though it gives promise of great perfection ; and her eyes are too soft and spiritual, one would say, for the task of looking for cobwebs or dusting china. Tf she is to be up betimes to-morrow, and go about her work as usual, it strikes one that they ought long ago to have been closed in sleep, inste'ad of looking on rock and river with such a thoughtful and impassioned gaze. “ You hear the weir, don’t you, Kitty,” continued Mary, “though it seems you don’t hear “ A thousand pardons, Polly. Oh, yes, I hear it well enough, and I heal’d your question too ; but, somehow, on a night like AFTER THE CHARADES. 3 this, one likes to think, and -not to talk. It was very selfish of me not to answer yon ; but I was wondering how long yon river had run on like this, how many generations of men and women had listened to it, and how many inore y/dl do so, when yon and I shall have no cars for its ceaseless song.” “ iSTo ears, dear Kitty ? what a funny notion ! Oh, I see ; yon mean w^hen w^e shall both be dead.” “ Yes ; dead and gone, Mary. The moon will shine as calmly as it does now', yonder, glistening on those crags we know so well ; the sky will be just as blue and beantifnl ; the trees will be even grander and larger ; but we shall never see them more.” ‘‘ Well, of course not ; we shall be enjoying something better in heaven — at least, I hope so.” “ Do yon really hope so, Polly ?” asked the other, earnestly ; or is it only that yon hope yon are not going to the bad place ? I cannot help thinking that we often pretend we want to go to heaven, when we have in reality no expectation of the sort.” “Oh, Kitty, how can yon be so wicked?” But is it not wicked to pretend such things ? It seems to me to be attempting to deceive not only ourselves, but Him who made ns. How, on a night like this, and looking on so fair a scene, I almost feel as if I was in heaven ; as though, at all events, I was not of the earth — earthy — but was projected somehow — I don’t know how — into some diviner sphere. There seem influences about ns such as are not perceived at other times, if they then exist ; a sort of communion appears to bo established between our souls and Kature herself ” “ You are ‘ projecting’ me, dear Kitty,” interrupted the other, laughing, “ very much beyond my depth : for my part, I am quite content to leave speculation alone, or, Avhere there seems a hitch, to trust to the clergyman.” “ That is because you are conscious of being so comfortably located, that the very idea of change, even in one’s ideas, annoys you. From your cradle to your grave, you will, in all human probability, be out of the reach of adversity ; and therefore this world seems sufficient for all your wants, if not ‘ the best of all possible worlds.’ ” “ For that matter, you will be just as well off as I, Kitty.” “ So far as material wants are concerned, I suppose I shall ; but I cannot shut my eyes to the position of those who are less favoured by fortune. I often wonder if one were poor, and looked down upon (as poor people are, whatever we may say), and conscious of injustice and contempt, whether one’s views of 4 FALLEN FORTUNES. the future would not be altered as much as one’s views of the present. It seems to me that it is much easier for the rich to be what is called orthodox — to pronounce whatever is to be right, and to take matters as they find them mapped out for them, both here and hereafter — than for the poor.’’ “Yet I am sure some of our poor people here — I mean of those that belong to the estate ” “ A very different thing from the estate belonging to them^ Polly/’ interrupted her companion, drily. “ Of course it is. Providence has placed them in a sub- ordinate position ; but yet they are often better people — I have heard the rector say so — and more religious-minded, than their masters. They are ill- lodged and ill-fed, rheumatic, and Heaven knows what else ; but yet they never complain, nor seem to think it hard, though they see others so much better off.” “ Still, I confess I should feel it bitterly, Polly, if I were in their place,” answered the other, earnestly. “ I am afraid I should he a radical and an infidel, and all that is bad.” “ Well, then, I am very glad that you are not likely to be exposed to the temptation, cousin,” was the laughing reply. “If your papa gets into Parliament, he is quite clever enough to become a Minister, and then you will be a great lady ; when you will soon get rid of all these socialistic sort of ideas, and begin to patronise us all.” “ Patronise ! ” exclaimed Kate ; “ that is another thing that seems to me to embitter the position of the poor almost beyond endurance. There are people in our class even who seem to imagine that they have bought their fellow- creatures out and out — body and soul — with a few yards of flannel, or, very literally, a few ‘ messes of pottage.’ Even if they had settled a comfortable annuity upon their unhappy victims, they could not have the right to treat them as they do ; but to have bought them so cheap, and then to give themselves such airs of pro- prietorship, is to my mind a very offensive spectacle.” “ My dear Kitty,” cried the other, laughing, “ if you are not of a more ‘ umble ’ spirit, and do not feel more grateful for your perquisites than your language seems to promise, you will never get an ‘ upper ’ situation. Even as it is, you know, it w s noticed by Mr. Holt in the charade to-night that you looked above your place.” “ I daresay I should be very unfitted for it,” was the grave rejoinder, “ as well as for anything else that was really Tasefqh I often wonder — — ” AFT£I^ THE CHARADES, S What is the good of it ? You are always wondering, Kitty,'’ broke in the other girl. “ I can’t help it ; and I have heard it said that wonder is a stepping-stone to understanding. I say I often wonder, if papa and mamma were to be ruined, what use I could possibly be to them. How could I get my own bread, even, except by the very occupation we have been playing at to-night — that of domestic service ? As to going out as a governess, for example, what qualifications do I possess for such a post ? ” “ Oh, that is no obstacle, my dear Kitty, for I have had half- a-dozen governesses, and not one of them knew what she pro- posed to teach.” “ Well, I told you I thought it wicked to ‘ pretend,' and so I do ; so that the profession of teaching would be out of the ques- tion, so far as I am concerned. What on earth, then, should I do if I was penniless ? ” “ I will tell you. You would send an unpaid letter to Miss Mary Campden, Riverside, Bleabarrow, Derbyshire, telling her how matters stood ; and as soon as steam and wheels could take her, she would be with you ; and this would be her answer : — ‘ Come to Riverside, Kitty, and for the rest of your life make it your home. We have always been sisters at heart, though only cousins by birth ; let me now prove how much I love you.’ ” As Polly said these words, her pretty face was lit up with the brightest of smiles, and her voice had quite a touch of generous welcome. “ My dearest Polly, how good you are ! ” said Kitty. “ And you would come to me, would you not, and make this your home for life ? ” “ Well, you see, there would be papa and mamma, and poor Jenny and Tony. I could never leave them, and live in luxury, while they were poor.” “But we should never let them be poor, of course; I mean my papa and mamma would uot permit it. Even if you were not, all of you, the dearest friends we have in the world, blood is thicker than water, and has indisputable claims.” “ Then how is it that neither your people nor mine ever take any notice ot Uncle Philip ? ” “ Oh, Kitty, you must not speak of him; indeed you must not. He is rot your uncle at all, you know, legally. He is a person whose name should never be mentioned ; at least by young girls like you and me. We ought not even to be aware of his existence.” 6 FALLEN FORTUNES. I>ai since wo are aware ? ” “ then, wo slioukl ignore it. It is yonr duty, even more tlian mine ; for if the law Lad decided otherwise than it did, your papa wonld liavc been disinherited, and this man Astor would have succeeded to your grandfather’s property.” “ But this man Astor, as you call him, is my uncle, neverthe- less,” persisted Kitty ; ‘‘ and it was not his fault that his mother was not my grandmother.” What a funny child you are ! Of course it was not ; but a great many people in the world are victims to misfortune. It is the will of Providence. Why, it’s in the Bible itself, Kitty, that the sins of the fathers shall be visited on their children.” I know it is ; but it seems very hard, for all that.” “ But that is very wicked, Kitty.” What ! to pity Uncle Philip ? Then I hope I shall be always wicked.” Here there was a little pause. Mary knew by experience that it was idle to argue vdth her cousin upon general principles, and at once descended to particulars. I have hea^rd that Mr. Astor is a bad man ; dissipated and untrustworthy ; a sort of person quite certain to go to the dogs.” ‘‘ Who told you that ? ” “ One who knows him better than anybody, because he has more to do with him,; one, too, who is a great friend of your father’s, and a warm admirer of yourself, so that you should receive his opinion with respect on all Ctccounts.” ‘‘ I would not believe everything Mr. Holt says, if you mean him,” observed Kitty, quietly ; “ and even if he be right in this case, Uncle Philip is still to be pitied. I savf him once by acci- dent when I was quite a child ; so like in face, and even in voice and manner, to his brother, dear papa, and yet so different in their positions in life.” “ They are different every way, Kitty, if you only knew them better,” answered Mary, gravely. ‘‘ Mr. Astor is a mauveds sujet^ a vaurien. Mr. Holt tells me. he is about to leave England for good and all, to try his fortune in the Kew Worldj and from w^hat he said, I am confident that that will be a happy thing for all parties.” That is what people always say when they have contrived to shake some responsibility off their shoulders,” said Kitty. Kay, Mr. Philip Astor is certainly no responsibility of ours, at all events,” observed Mary, quickly. AFTER THE CHARADES. 7 I was nob tTiInking of Uncle Philip just then, Polly.” ‘^Ah, yon were thinking of Geolfrey, Well, of course I regret that mamma should have expressed herself in those terms to-night about him ; but it cannot be expected that the lad should live at Riverside all his life ; and since he has a fancy for the sea, why should he not indulge it ? ” “ But he has no such fancy ; it is only that he feels himself a burden — or rather, he is made to feel it ” ‘‘I don’t see that, Kitty; indeed, I don’t,” interrupted the other, sharply. ‘‘ Then you must be stone-blind.” Oh, no ; it is merely that I look at him with ordinary eyes, and don’t make a fool of the boy by pretending to be in love with him.” “ Ko ; you conceal your affection for him very well, it must be confessed.” “ I wish I could return the compliment, Kate. You make yourself quite conspicuous by your attentions to that young lad. It is a very mistaken kindness in you — to say the least of it. If you mean nothing by it, it is an act of cruelty to him ; and if you do mean anything, Geoffrey Derwent has scarcely a shilling he can call his own, and is not the sort of character to make a fortune, so that he will never be in a position to marry.’' “ I think this discussion is uncalled for, cousiu,” answered Kitty, drawing up her slight figure to its full height. ‘‘ You provoked it yourself, Kate, by reflecting upon mamma’s conduct to Geoffrey ; and while we are upon the subject, I would recommend that when your father comes to-morrow, you should be a little more discreet in your behaviour, for he has quicker eyes than your mamma, who has not such a know“ ledge of the world ” “My mamma knows all that she needs to know, though she knows nothing bad,” interrupted Kate, in indignant tones ; “ she is not only the best, but the wisest of God’s creatures in all that He deems to be wisdom ; and I would rather have her good opinion than that of all the world beside.” “My dear Kitty, I never uttered one word against her, nor have ever dreamed of doing so, so you need not be so fiery in your championship ; whereas you did reflect upon the conduct of my mother as respected Geoffrey ; she is not so fond of him as you are, but she has done her duty by him — and more than her duty — for the last ten years,” 8 FALLEN FORTUNES, “Till at last she is getting a little tired of it,*’ observed Kate, coldly. “ Yon have no right to say that, cousin ; Geoffrey has been brought up like one of the family — just as though he had been my own brother ; and yet he has no natural claim upon us ** “ For shame, Mary 1 ’* interrupted the other, indignantly. “ How can you talk like that ? Do you suppose I don't know how it all came about ? How old Mr. Derwent was your father’s dearest friend, and put him on the road to fortune, though he lost all himself. Ho natural claim ? Is gratitude, then, contrary to nature ? ’* “ What ! do you call my father ungrateful, you who know that Geoffrey has been educated entirely at his expense ? ” “Heaven forbid! He is the most kind and generous of men ; but I honestly tell you that I think he has done no more than his duty in paying for Geoffrey’s schooling. Why, I have heard him say myself — and I honour him for it — that he owes all he has in the world to old Mr. Derwent ; and what is Geoffrey’s schooling out of your papa’s ten thousand a-year ? Why, not so much as he pays to his second gardener ! I think it unworthy of you, Mary, to adduce such a thing as evidence that the poor boy has nothing to complain of, in the teeth of the scene we witnessed to-day ; I do, indeed.” “ I think that mamma was a little hard upon Geoffrey, Kate,” answered Mary, slowly ; “but not so hard as to evoke such indignation on your part. Of course if, at seventeen, the young gentleman is your accepted lover, you have every right to be in a passion ; but otherwise, you had better have been silent — at least to my mother’s daughter.” “ I am not in a passion even now^ Mary ; though what you have just said was designed to put me into one. If I know myself, I should have been just as angry to have seen any other person in a dependent position so contemptuously treated as Geoffrey was ; but if I have said anything disrespectful of your mamma to you — though I am not aware of it — I am very sorry for it. It was altogether wrong of me, and would have been so had I so spoken of her to anybody — far more to you. Mrs. Campden has been always most kind to me, I’m sure ; and a kinder hostess to us all it is impossible to picture.” “ Of course she is, because she loves you all ; not that she does not love Jeff too ; only she has such a notion of discipline, and of boys making their own way in the world. I think the only exception is your Tony, whom she certainly does spoil j but AFTEJR THE CHARADES. 9 nobody can Help spoiling Tony. How you will miss him, when he goes to Eton in October ! ” “ Yes, indeed ; and how dear mamma will miss him, and above all, poor Jenny ! Something to love and cling to, and pet, seems absolutely necessary to her existence. She is her- self so dependent on others, that to have some one about her dependent upon her, is an especial delight. Papa says she has taught Tony far better than his masters have done, and that he has got into the upper school at his entrance examination — he is but nine, you know — has been more owing to her than to them.” “What a clever family you all are, Kate ! ” observed Mary, admiringly ; “I am quite surprised that everybody is not afraid of you, instead of you being such favourites. I suppose it comes from your having such a clever papa. I sometimes think that if I could wish my papa to change in anything — which I don’t — I should like him to talk, and laugh, and make everybody admire him, as yours does. Is he always in as high spirits at home as he is everywhere else ? I need not ask if he is as good-humoured. I cannot imagine Mr. Dalton put out by anything.” “Well, I don’t say papa is never put out,” said Kate, laugh- ing for the first time, as though the topic of talk had begotten merriment ; “ but he is so soon all right again, that we rarely notice that there has been any interval of gloom. We have not seen so much of him at home of late, as usual, and we miss him sadly. I am sure, so far as mamma and we are concerned, we would much rather that he was not made a Member of Parlia- ment, for that will take him more away from us than ever.” “ Oh, but then think of the position, Kate, and the great things to which, in his case, it may lead.” “I am afraid I am not ambitious, Polly,” sighed Kate; “ and from what I have seen of ambition in papa’s case — that is, since he began to sit on ‘ Boards ’ — which, however profitable, must be very uncomfortable — and to take the chair at this meeting and that, and to busy himself in public affairs, I think it would have been better for him to have remained as he was.” “But the law was not to his taste, Kate ; and though it is true he had a competency of his own, it seemed like hiding his candle under a bushel to remain a briefless barrister all his days. If I were you, I should be so proud of him.” “ You cannot be more proud of him than I am, Polly, or so proud as dear mamma is; but for the reasons I have men 10 FALLEN FORTUNES. tioned, I regrefc, and so docs slio, I know, tkongli ske would never confess it, that ho is standing for Bampton. Since ho wishes it, we prefer, of course, that he will succeed ; but so far as we are selfishly concerned, if he fails to do so it will bo no disappointment. “ Oh, but ho will not fail ; he is far too clever, and he has laid his plans too wisely for that ; and though it will cost him a good deal of money, it is most important to his interests — so Mr. Holt assures me — to secure a seat.’’ “ Mr. Holt seems to have told you a good deal ; I wish he would mind his own business. It is he who persuades papa to ‘ go into ’ this and that, as he calls it, and tells him of ‘ good things,’ which I fancy don’t always turn out as good as they look. Mamma dislikes the man, I know, and distrusts him.” “ But, then, dear Mrs. Dalton is not a woman of business.” I don’t know about business, Mary ; mamma is the best manager of a household I ever knew, which is woman’s business, I suppose ; and as to people, though she does not talk much, and never says an uncharitable word, her instincts are always right ; and in this case my own agree with them. I don’t admire this Mr. Holt at all, and am very sorry your good father asked him down to Riverside, at least while we were stopping with you. I am not proud myself, you know, and care very little what occupation people follow, so long as they themselves are nice ; but I am surprised that Mr. Campden should have so ‘ cottoned,’ as Jeff calls it, to a man like that, who is also, I believe, a stockbroker.” Hot a word was spoken for some moments; nothing was heard but the murmur of the weir, and the melancholy tuwhit- tuwhoo of the owls, as they called to one another across the unseen mere above, from which it flowed ; then once more Mary broke silence with: ‘‘What is a stockbroker, Kitty, dear?” If she had asked. What is a stock-dove ? the inquiry would have been pertinent enough to such a scene ; but as it was, the question was so ridiculously inappropriate, that Kitty broke into a silvery laugh that woke the echoes ; it also awoke some one else, for a window was thrown up, immediately beneath that which the two friends occupied, and a thin but decisive voice cried : “ Mary, your father says that there must be no more charades if they lead to all this discussion afterwards between you girls ; I must insist upon your going to bed.” “ Indeed, Mrs. Campden, I am afraid it was ray fa/ult, not Mary’s,” answered Kate, penitently, from above. TEACHER AND PUPIL. II “No, no; 1 know it is not yon, Kitty. Mary wonld sit np all night, and perhaps be no worse for it; but you are much too delicate for such imprudences ’’ “ I’ll have both those young hussies discharged in the morn- ing,’^ broke in the bass notes of the exasperated Mr. Campden ; “ their tittle-tattle robs me of my beauty sleep.’’ “ What a nice dear old thing your papa is !” laughed Kate, as she and Mary softly closed their window, and prepared to divest themselves of their borrowed plumes. “If I was a housemaid, and he in the same service, I should certainly set my cap at him.” CHAPTEK II. TEACHER AND PUHL. There arc, no doubt, attractions of a sentimental kind that cling to fine old country houses, with which no other habitations can compete. “ I like your England only pretty well,” observed an American lady to me on one occasion; “but I do love her ruins.” Historical association was what her own land did not possess, and she valued it accordingly ; and, indeed, it has charms for most of us. It is something to dwell under the same roof which has sheltered Queen Elizabeth in her progress, or Charles II. in his wanderings ; and perhaps even to sleep in the same bed that was once occupied by the Royal Martyr. But there are objections to these stately ancestral homes, which make them more pleasant to “go over” as a tourist, with a half-crown in your hand, destined for the housekeeper, than to reside in as a guest. The rooms are stuffy, and the ventilation most observ- able in draughts under the doors ; the windows are small, and do not conveniently open ; there is generally a reputed ghost or two — which, however much we laugh at in broad daylight, is apt to appeal more strongly to the imagination when we are lying awake, during the small hours, in an antiquated four- poster. Lastly, the “ Castle,” or “ Hall,” or “ Tower,” or whatever imposing name it may bear, though generally what the auctioneers term “finely situate,” is by no means always placed in the most picturesque spot of those which its extensive lands afford for building purposes. In the good old times, when everybody was for interfering with his neighbour, or for avoiding being interfered with, the architect of the period was more intent upon preserving the personal safety of his employer, and making him inaccessible to the general public, than in 12 PALLE]^ EORTDNE^. providing him Witli an attractive out-look ; and we often sigti, as we contemplate some stately home, moat-ringed, as though wedded to old Time himself, “ Oh, why was it not built there, or here ? It is for these reasons that I prefer to be a guest — for in my wildest dreams I have never pictured myself as the proprietor thereof — at some modem mansion, though owned perchance by a City millionaire of yesterday, than to be enter- tained in what I have heard a certain gilt but irreverent youth — himself the lord of such a feudal residence — term a “ ghost box.’^ I can fancy few pleasures more solid and satisfactory than that of going about this fair land, with a hundred thousand pounds in one’s pocket or so, looking out for an estate with an eligible site to build a house upon after one’s own fancy — or, perhaps still better, to purchase one ready built. George Campden — a fortunate man in many things — had been lucky enough to find in Riverside a ready-made residence that suited his taste exactly, save in some particulars which his riches easily enabled him to make conformable to it. It had been built but a few years by one who had risen on the flood of Fortune only to be dragged down with its ebb ; and yet it had no objectionable trace of newness. How could it do so, indeed, when the flinty bowels of old Bleabarrow had supplied its walls, up which the creepers had been as prompt to climb as heath and wild-flower were to deck the crags themselves ? There was an affinity between stone and plant at Riverside Hall which I have seen nowhere else, and which made the whole edifice less like a production of art than nature. Yet art — and that of the most modern kind — was everywhere visible about it, from the divan-like billiard-room, with its electric marking-board, to the gilt gas-lamps fringing the garden path that led to where the steam-yacht was housed — a boat-house like a Chinese ;^alace. The lamps were by no means superfluous, though the steam-yacht might certainly have been termed so, since it was only after much rain that the Hathay would admit of its reaching Bleabarrow Mere, under pretence of navigating the waters of which that ambitious vessel had been purchased ; but the sailing- yacht, which the Chinese palace also contained, in addition to half-a-dozen pleasure-skiffs, was often put in requisition ; and, after a late picnic, or protracted voyage, the miniature lighthouse at the head of the boat-landing was useful enough, and the lamps beside the winding pathway saved many a bed of costly flov/ers from invasion and damage. The house was built upon elevated ground, that gradually TEACHER AND PUPIL. 13 sloped up to it from the river ; but at its back, and sheltering it from the north and east, a hill arose, so high that it could almost be termed a mountain, and yet so fertile that great trees grew almost to its summit, beneath which the insatiable sheep cropped the rich grass; while lower down clamps of tame deer wandered from shade to shade, with twinkling ears. The whole place, without and within, dis- played that perfection and wholeness which is only possible in a country residence when its possessor has large supplies of ready money. It was Mr. Campden's boast that if anything went amiss, from the bursting of the kitchen-boiler to the breaking of a window-pane, the mischief was repaired upon the instant. “ Ten squires, ten yeomen, mail-clad men,” might not indeed wait “the beck of the warders ten;” nor “thirty steeds, both fleet and wight,” stand “ saddled in stable day and night,” as the poet tell us “was the custom in Branksome Hall;” but there were steeds and serving-men in plenty at Riverside ; and man and horse were despatched to the county town with equal speed, and certainly on much less emergencies than were wont to send them forth from that Border tower. No guest ever had it brought home to him that he was sojourning at a country house from the occurrence of an inconvenience that extended beyond the hour ; while every luxury was supplied to him that London could produce. Even the lettuces in the salads were almost as good (though, if there was a weak point in the Riverside commissariat, it was that which is common to all country places whatsoever — the lettuces) as those bought in Co vent Garden itself ; while the asparagus was infinitely better. Not a bottle of champagne was ever opened that had not been duly iced. The daily papers arrived by express at 4.30 from the nearest railway-station, and from it was a branch telegraph to the Hall, by which the morning news came down, and was found upon the breakfast- table by the earliest riser. The guests of the house descended to that meal at any time they pleased, or, if they preferred it, had it served to them in their own apartments; but the hours for lunch and dinner were absolutely fixed (as they must be if the cook is to respect his art), and were stated on a printed card, and hung up in every bedroom, as prices are at hotels. The wheel of existence was made, in short, to move so smoothly at Riverside, that you forgot the mechanism of strap and cog that are in general so plainly visible, and were apt to take that as a matter of course 14 FALLEN- FORTUNES. whicli was in reality the result of infinite pains and provision. When you sliiftcd your quarters, it is true your mistake was immediately rectified ; but it was said, and said truly, by tboso who had experience in such matters, that to bo a guest with the Campdens' “ spoiled you ” for visiting anywhere else. What gave Riverside an advantage, however, it must be con- fessed, in suQh a comparison, was that it stood almost alone in being essentially a summer residence. Although the estate v/as large, there was little game upon it, and that little — the proprietor being no sportsman — was not preserved. Hence, when the house was at its fullest, other country mansions were standing empty, their fashionable owners having gone on the Continent, or yachting in the Mediterranean ; and when the hunter’s horn, or the whirring wing of the pheasant sounded their recall. Riverside in its turn became vacant of guests, and the Campdens came up to town for the winter months. Some- times their daughter Mary would precede them by a few weeks, which she would spend with the Daltons in Cardigan Place ; and sometimes she would tarry behind them, to enjoy “ the season ” a little longer, under the auspices of the same hostess. The two families, though they called themselves cousins, were only distantly related, but they lived in great familiarity and friendship ; Kate Dalton, in particular, felt almost as much at home at Riverside as beneath her father’s roof, and especially on the present occasion, when her “ belongings,” as she called them, were her fellow-guests. She had often stayed there alone, just as Mary Campden — her dearest friend, though she was her senior by two years — had stayed at Cardigan Place ; but the fact was, she was never quite, happy when away from her family. Her mother, whom she adored, was herself in delicate health, while her sister Jenny was a confirmed invalid, afflicted with a sort of chronic neuralgia, which at times made any movement of the limbs intolerable ; and Kate was eager to do her share of tendance, and also to take Tony oft their hands during his holidays, whose animal spirits — though he, too, was far from physically strong — were at times not a little “ trying.” It was from their mother that the chil- dren, doubtless, all inherited their delicacy of constitution, for Mr. Dalton was never known to have had ‘‘ anything the matter with him,” in wind or limb ; but for a certain nervous and impulsive temperament, which was common to them all, they had to thank, or to blame, their father. Under an appearance of the most perfect sang-froid, it was TEACHER AND PUPIL, 15 asserted hy those who ought to have known him best that John Dalton concealed a sensitive and passionate nature, and that though he was the most popular man of his day in clubs and on business committees — two very different characters rolled into one^he could show a deuce of a temper ” when displeased. As his wife and children evidently loved him to excess, however, it is charitably to be believed that these paroxysms, if he really did indulge in them, were rare and short-lived. Hb has not yet arrived upon the scene in person, but we may make some guess at his character from a specimen of his correspondence, perhaps. The morning letters, despatched in a private bag by express from Bleabarrow, arrived early at the Hall, and having been taken out of their repository by Mr. Marks, the butler, were carried up to their respective owners. ‘‘ There is a letter from master, ma’am,” observed Mrs. Dalton’s maid, as she entered her apartment, and laid tho missive in question on the dressing-table, at which that lady was already seated. It was, perhaps, impertinent in Lucy to say as much, but she has been many years in her mistress’s service, and is v/ell acquainted with all her ways, and even with some of her thoughts. She concludes, for example, that she has risen so early this morning from her anxiety to hear news of her absent husband ; and she is quite right in her surmise. Mrs. Dalton takes the letter quickly, and without any fashionable pretence of not being in a hurry to possess herself of the contents, yet opens it with a certain neatness of touch, of which characteristic no haste can deprive her, Nay, she even takes the opportunity of Lucy turning her back to set down the hot- water can, to press the handwriting to her lips before reading it, like one saying grace before good food. “ Bamptox, August 1,” began the note, which was, indeed, but a hurried scrawl — “ My dearest Love, — You will see me to-morrow without fail ; I hope by the train that gets to Bleabarrow at 6.30. Holt was over-sanguine, it seems ; and they tell me if I get in here at all, it will be a tight squeeze. The people are a roughish lot.” (Here the delicate pink fades from the wife’s cheek, as when you suddenly remove the light with which you are showing off your cup of egg-shell china : ‘‘ Good heavens, there is danger, then ! ” she thinks. ) ‘‘I have been soliciting their sv/eet voices for five hours to-day, at one place or another, and am dead-sick i6 FALLEN FORTUNES, of it, and as hoarse as a raven. The whole affair is what Julia would call ‘ quite too awful.* I do not myself think I shall succeed, and, unhappily, it is of great importance that I should do so. Do not say anything to Holt of this, however. Kiss my dear ones for me, and tell Jenny I found a fern for her, while I was out canvassing, which seems to me to he rare ; but I daresay it will he at once detected by her learned eye to be something communis, “ I shall see you to-morrow, sweetheart, whether I shall have to be congratulated or consoled ; that is something ; but ‘ would it were supper-time and all were well.’ “ Ever yours, John Dalton. “ P.S. — ^Don’t say a word to Holt, or anybody, of my mis- givings.” Mrs. Dalton read this letter again and again. There were things in it that puzzled her (such as the reference to supper- time. “I hope he is not. hurting himself by taking suppers, which never agree with him,” was her mental commentary upon that passage) ; but she knew those were not of importance : what gave her most uneasiness were the allusions to Mr. Holt, whose name was mentioned no less than three times. Mr. Holt was a stockbroker, as Kate had told her friend ; but even if she could have answered her general inquiry as to what a stockbroker was, which is doubtful, she could certainly not have explained the nature of the calling of Mr. Holt in parti- cular. Few persond^ indeed, could have done so. His doings were by no means confined to scrip and share ; he had a finger in every pie from which plums ” are ^picked ; and wherever there were wires, it was his aim to pull one. His influence over her husband Mrs. Dalton was well aware was great, though she did not know how it was obtained. It seemed to her very strange, and almost humiliating, that her John, who was so clever and brilliant, should allow himself to be persuaded into this and that by such a blunt, plain man as Richard Holt, one rather younger than older than himself (though he did not look younger), and who had nothing to recommend him beyond a character for shrewdness. She would have been indignant with anyone to whose opinion her husband had deferred ; but the influence of this man was peculiarly obnoxious to her, since it had drawn him into business and politics, which she detested, because they took him so much from her and home. She had hitherto seen no other evil in them, and certainly no danger ; TEACHER AND PUPIL. 17 bat a pbrase in her husband’s letter, or rather a word in the phrase, had now excited her apprehensions. “ I do not myself think I shall succeed ” (that is, in being elected for Bampton) ; “and, unhappily, it is of great importance I should do so.” Of course it was important that John should get into Parliament, but why should he have written “ unlia^jpilij, it is of great importance ? ” He was wont to write rapidly, to dash oft his words, indeed, as fast as his pen could form them ; but he rarely used an unfitting word, or a superfluous one. She had not thought so much of John’s becoming a senator as most wives equally devoted to their husbands would have done, but that was because she had so high an opinion of his talents, reputation, and social position that no adventitious distinction could, in her eyes, make him a greater man. It was simple in her to think so much of him, but it was singularly becoming. It had been once said by a very great reader of mankind — one who had studied “ each mode of the lyre ” of human life, and had “ mastered them all ” — that Mrs. John Dalton was “the nicest woman in England ; ” and though that had been said at a time when she was one of the prettiest, her niceness had not departed with the years. It might almost have been said that her pretti- ness had remained with her also — as one sees her standing now, with that letter in her hand, but gazing thoughtfully through the open window ; only “ prettiness ” could not have expressed that matured grace. Her once golden hair no longer ripples in bright waves, and is streaked here and there with silver ; her slight form has lost its comely outlines, and her whole appear- ance denotes fragility; bat the love-light in her eyes shines out as clearly as in her bridal days, and burns with that sacred flame which years of constancy and trial alone can give it, and which no loss nor cross can ever extinguish ; a saint as holy and as pure as any virgin of the cloister ; a guardian angel set in the niche of Home. She had not thought much, I say, of how things might go at Bampton ; but now that she heard that they might go wiliapjpily^ her feelings changed, and the matter assumed that “ great im- portance,” though she knew not on what account, that it wore in her husband’s eyes. Everyone said, and justly, how kind and unselfish Mrs. Dalton was ; how tender to misfortune ; how gentle as well as liberal to the poor ; how ready and eager to heal family differences. She had been appealed to, more than once, to intercede for a spendthrift son, and once even for a runaway daughter ; and not in vain ; and yet she only lived for c i8 FALLEN' FORTUNES. her husband and her children. Her heart was open to all the world — it was di*fficult to close it against even the wicked ; but in her heart of hearts were the images of those four beloved Ones set up alone as idols. “ God and my country ’’ was not her motto, though, perhaps, she would have gone as far to serve her country as the foremost of our female politicians ; but simply “ God and my dear ones ; for them, however, she would have laid down her life without a sigh. To no purpose she ransacks her mind for any sign that might point to the cause of John’s anxiety about this election ; it would cost him some considerable sum of money, she was aware, but she also knew that he had calculated the cost, and had the money to spare. It was not usual with him to confide his business affairs to her ; but he had told her so much as that in answer to her gentle expostulations against his embracing political life at all. The “ unhappiness ” could therefore have nothing to do with money matters ; and yet it had certainly to do with Mr. Holt, whose connection with her husband was based solely upon them. They had nothing else in common, she was quite sure. She had her doubts whether they were even quite good friends, though they were thought to be so by everybody. Indeed, she was aware that Mr. Campden had asked Mr. Holt down to Riverside entirely upon her husband’s account, and, as she suspected, even at his express request. ‘‘ Do not say any- thing to Holt, however , read she again. But why should she say anything ? Why should John suppose that she should have spoken to the man about such private affairs at all P He was a person, as her husband well knew, for whom she had no liking, and whom she kept at as great a distance as politeness permitted ; so that the injunction was quite superfluous ; and yet it was re- peated in his postscript. “Don’t say a word to Holt, or any- body, of my misgivings.^' She would not, of course, say a word to anybody, since he had forbidden it ; but without that warning, she would certainly not have dreamed of saying one word of John’s affairs to Mr. Holt. Mrs. Dalton has done with her letter at last, and every Line of it having been committed to memory, places it in her bosom ; then calling up a smile upon her face, she opens a green baize door, and knocks at another door behind it. “ Come in, dear mamma,” answers a cheerful voice ; and she enters the neat room accordingly. This is a luxuriously fur- nished apartment, hung with pictures, lined with books, and evidently not intended as a sleeping room ; yet there is a charm* TEACHER AND PUPIL. 19 ing little bed in it, with rose-coloured curtains hanging upon it like a tent, and also an article of furniture that looks like a second bed, though it is only a reclining couch of peculiar con- struction. Upon this latter a young girl of about seventeen is lying, propped up with cushions, at the window, and apparently sketching the prospect it affords. ‘‘ What ! up and at work already, Jenny ? Surely that is not prudent, my darling ? There is a look of pain but not of re- proof upon the mother^s face as she stoops down to kiss her child ; and it is reflected in that of her daughter. But the pain of the former is mental, and that of the latter is physical. “ I felt rather uneasy in bed, mamma, so exchanged it for the couch ; and when Lucy came she moved it to the window.’’ But, my poor child, what did you do with yourself till she called you ? Why did you not pull the striog for me ? ” She pointed to a little cord that passed under the tvro doors, and formed a communication between her daughter’s bed and her own. “ Oh, it was too early to wake yon, mamma ; and yet it was broad daylight, so that I could do my lace- work. There was a letter from papa, Lucy said.” “ Yes, dear. He will be here to-day, he hopes in time for dinner ; he wrote but a short note, yet sent an especial message to yourself. He is bringing back a little present for you ; ” and she gave Jenny the message about the fern. “ How good of him it was,” said the invalid, flushing up, “ to think of me when he was canvassing ! Was it not, mamma ? ” I believe your papa thinks of you at all times, Jenny. I hope you will have a good report to give of yourself to him, in spite of this bad night.” “ Oh, the night was not bad, mamma ; only a little long ; and as for me, Dr. Curzon says I am pounds better than I was when I last came to Riverside. He told me last night at the charades, that he hoped to see me act a milkmaid carrying pails next year, as naturally as Kitty did the housemaid with her broom. How charming she looked ! did she not ? And so did Polly, for that matter ; only I thought that Polly was a trifle too natural- looked the character to too great perfection.” “ Most girls in cotton prints and flyaway caps with red ribbons, would look the part that they were playing, my dear,” said Mrs. Dalton, quickly. “ Yes, but our Kitty did not. It was easy enough, as Mr. 2,0 PALLEN FORTUNES. Holt whispered to me, to see who was the princess in disguise. That was a pretty little compliment, no doubt, and had truth besides to recommend it. But do you know, mamma ’’ — here Jenny be^an to sketch most vigorously — “ I don’t much like that Mr. Holt.” “ Why not, my dear ? He seems a very inoffensive person.” Yes, he does not bite one, certainly ; indeed, the creature makes up to us as though he had very good intentions indeed.’^ “ The creature, my dear ! ” ‘‘ Well, I should have said the man, I suppose. But even you, mamma, whose good word is worth so little, as Mrs. Campden says, because everybody has it, even you could not call Mr. Holt a ‘ gentleman.’ If you except his hat and his boots — w^hich I own are very brilliant — he can scarcely be said to ‘ shine in society.’ ” “ As to shining, everybody is not expected to do that, my dear Jenny. But since your papa thinks him good enough to keep company with /im, Mr. Holt is good enough, I suppose, for most societies,” answered Mrs. Dalton, drily. “ Well, papa can make friends with everybody, mamma. He is equally at home with a bishop and a bargee.” “ My dear Jenny ” “ Hay, mother ; I was only referring to the versatility of papa’s genius. How, we are not all of us so talented in that respect ; and I, for my part, do not feel at ease in Mr. Bichard Holt’s company. It is ungrateful of me, I know, because he evidently intends to be extraordinarily civil.” “ It is not only ungrateful, but unjust, Jenny; it is plain to me that you are entertaining an unfounded prejudice against this person.” “ A prejudice, certainly ; but whether unfounded or not remains to be proved. Lookers-on, dear mamma, it is said, see most of the game ; and at the game of life, I, on my couch here, am fated to be but a looker-on. I am carried downstairs, and set down among the rest ; but no one takes notice of me — of course, I don’t mean dear,” added she quickly, in answer to her mother’s glance of tender reproof; ‘‘nor anyone that is dear to youi ; but I am referring to strangers generally. Then I amuse myself with making my little observations — ‘ the child amongst us takin’ notes,’ as papa calls me.” “Your papa spoils you, Jenny, and makes you think too much of yourself, I fear. How is it possible that a girl of your years, and with so small an experience of life ” TEACHER AND PUPIL. 21 Less than even that of most girls,” pnt in Jenny, quietly, by reason of my infirmity ; I acknowledge all that/^ ‘‘Well, then, how is it possible, my dear, that you can judge rightly of grown-up people ? ” “It is instinct, I suppose, or intuition; but papa says I have got it.” Jenny has at all events some sagacity, thus to invoke her father’s authority in corroboration of her pretensions. Mrs. Dalton suddenly dropped her tone of reproof, and answered laughingly : “ My dear Jenny, you are a shocking egotist ; and it is useless to reason with such self-conceit. But since you have already passed this infallible judgment of yours upon poor Mr. Holt, may I ask you what it is ? ” “ But, mamma, you won’t be angry ? ” “ Angry, no ; except with myself, perhaps, for putting such a foolish qiiestion to a child like you.” “ Well, it is my opinion that Mr. Holt is a H-IJ-M-B-U-G.” “ But why, Jenny ? ” “Nay, I cannot say why. An oracle gives its answer, but never its reasons ; indeed, I could not give mine if I tried. I have seen a hundred things in the man — of course, but little things — yet all pointing the same way. Mr. Holt is acting a part, as much as Kitty was acting one last night; he has something in view, from which he would divert the attention of others. But there” — and Jenny laughed a merry laugh, which had a certain goblin ring about it too — “ I will say no more, except that he is a humbug.” “ Considering that Mr. Holt is especially esteemed in the City for his shrewd and straightforward character, Jenny,” replied Mrs. Dalton, gravely, “ I think you have said quite enough to upset your pretensions as a seer.” “ That is suspicious, though,” said Jenny, slily. “ What is ? ” “ Why, his being so ‘ esteemed for,’ &c. How could he be all that, and in the City too, unless he was a humbug ? ” “I don’t understand you, Jenny. You might just as well say that because your dear papa is so admired and beloved by almost everybody, that he is a — that very vulgar word you used just now.” “ Oh, papa is like nobody else in the world, and is not to be judged by ordinary rules,” replied Jenny, naively. “It is his mission to make things pleasant, whereas it is not Mr. Holt’s mission by any means, and his endeavours to do so are mqst 22 FALLEN FORTUNES, ridiculous. His attempts at a joke are like the gamboling of that horso on his back yonder, all hoof and teeth, in the field ; they are only laughable because they are so clumsy.” “ But everybody can’t be lively and agreeable, like your papa.” Then don’t let them try,” answered Jenny, with irritation ; and, above all things, don’t let them try to be insinuating, and soft and tender, when they are obviously rhinoceroses and hippopotamuses, and cannot do it without blowing into one’s ear. Don’t let them ” Here she was interrupted by a soft drumming noise at the door, which gradually rose and swelled in volume, till it became an excellent imitation of a gong. “ Come in,” said Jenny, laughing ; ‘^come in, you naughty boy.” Then the door opened, and disclosed a youth of about nine years old, with a thin but merry face, set in a thicket of brown curls, and above the curls a parcel of school-books, which he held there by one hand, as a maiden holds her pitcher at the well. He closed the door softly, then took a noiseless run and slide upon the carpet that landed him at the foot of the couch. “ And how is my pretty mamma ? ” inquired he as he kissed her cheek. And how is my venerable coach ? ” added he, addressing Jenny. “Well, the coach is a little out of repair, Tony, this morn- ing,” answered the young girl ; “ and I doubt whether it will be able to carry all those passengers : ‘ Cornelius Xepos,’ ‘ Virgil,’ ‘ Csesar,’ and the wicked ‘ Colenso ’ ” ‘‘There was an old Bishop of Natal Who had a Zulu for a pal,” quoted the boy gaily. ‘ ‘ Said the Zulu, ‘ Look here ’ ” “ Be quiet, Tony ; I won’t have you say such things,” said Jenny, sharply. “It is all very well for grown-up people, but not for children.” “ But Jeff is not grown up — at least so everybody says, except himself — and he sings : “There was an old Bishop of Natal Whose views upon Moses were fatal.” “Hush ! ” said Jenny; holding her finger up rebukefully, and pointing to Mrs. Dalton, who was looking out of the window, apparently absorbed in thought. TEACHER AND PUPIL. 23 Pupil and teacher were very like to one another ; the former had all the hues of health, but they were delicate hues, and the expression of his thin features was feminine, though intelligent in a high degree. His eyes, too, though large and lustrous, were very soft, and as his curling hair mingled with his sister’s caressingly, the two might almost have been taken for sisters. “ What is troubling dear mamma ? ” whispered he gently. “ Hush ! Nothing. But you will trouble her if you sing songs like that. Why have you brought all those books with you this morning, instead of your lesson ? “Well, I want to get all my lessons over at once. I got up this morning on purpose to learn them ; for there are to be sports at Bleabarrow to-day, Jeff says — wrestling, and leaping, and all sorts — and Jeff is going to take me.” “Geoffrey would make you as idle as himself, if that w^ere possible,” said Jenny, her wan fingers playing with her brother’s hair ; “ but I don’t fancy you will be trusted to go with him to any such place. What do you think, mamma, of Tony’s going to Bleabarrow Feast under the wing of Master Geoffrey ? ” “ Indeed, my child, I don’t think that will quite do,” said his mother, thus appealed to. “ Mrs. Campden has, I know, a bad opinion of such gatherings, and Jeff is but a boy. I am afraid you must give them up, Tony, unless the sports can wait till after papa comes home. I have got a letter which says we may expect him to-night. Is not that good news ? ” “Yes, of course,” said Tony, hanging his head down a little. “ But couldn’t Mrs. Campden send Bobert with me ? ” “No, darling; a servant would, under the circumstances, be worse than nobody. A child should have some grown-up per- son, who is a gentleman, with him, when he goes to such places.” “Then I’ve got leave to go,” cried Tony, exultingly; “fora grown-up gentleman has promised to go with me, though I would rather have gone with Jeff and Bobert, if I could.” “You don’t mean to say you have inveigled good Mr: Campden ? ” cried Mrs. Dalton, not, perhaps, displeased at this proof of her little son’s powers of persuasion. “ It’s not Mr. Campden, mamma — it’s Mr. Holt. He heard Jeff say that he doubted whether Mrs. Campden w^oulcl like me to go with him, and offered to take me himself.” Mother and daughter exchanged a rapid glance of astonish- ment, and Jenny broke out into one of her musical but mocking laughs. “ Mr. Holt in charge of a small boy at Bleabarrow Feast ! ” 24 FALLEN FORTUNES, cried she. That will be a more amusing spectacle tban any the sports will have to ofPer.’* “ I think it was very good-natured of Mr. Holt/’ observed Mrs. Dalton, gravely, “and very unselfish; for, as you say, it is quite out of his line, and he has nothing to gain by it.” “ I don’t remember that I said that^ mamma,” observed Jenny, drily. “Well, if you are going to these sports, Anthony, we must go on with our lessons.” And pupil and teacher com- menced their usual task accordingly. CHAPTER III. IN THE EOSE-GARDEN. All rooms at Riverside Hall are good rooms, including those of the servants, which, instead of being ill-lit, ill-warmed, with sloping roofs and mere apologies for windows — such as are common in all those ancient mansions which we see pictured in “ Gentlemen’s Seats” or “The Ancestral Homes of England” — are comfortable, and of fair size ; but even at Riverside there are distinctions. The guest-rooms appropriated for bachelors, for example, though well and even luxuriously furnished, do not look out towards the front of the house. The penalty inflicted upon unmarried persons beneath that hos- pitable roof is to have their view restricted to the croquet-ground, the rosary, and the hill-park (as it is called) at the back of the house. The stables are hidden away in a hollow, and approached by a secret way known only to the household, for it is not Mr. Campden’s habit, as it is that of many country gentlemen, to lead his male friends thither after breakfast to discuss hocks and pasterns, and to inhale the fine flavour of the saddle-room and worse. But even this back view is not to be despised by those, such as Mr. Richard Holt, who had been shut up in Abdell Court, in the City of London, for eight hours a day through spring and summer, and doubtless that gentleman would have been enjoying it this morning, had he not had something more important to engage his attention. A goodly batch of letters had, as usual, arrived for him by the morning’s post, and in their contents, though he is up and dressed, and sitting at the open window, he is rapt for the present, to the exclusion of ex- ternal objects. He is one of those men — if you will take the opportunity of observing him — for whom the letter-bag has always paramount importance ; men who do not mix readily with those about them, or find pleasure or evert engrossing IN THE ROSE-GARDEN 25 employment in the present ; whose thoughts are semi-occupied, whose very gaze is filmed over, as it were, with the web of their projects. They are never sure of their movements, or of the length of their sojourn in any place ; all must depend, they say, “upon the afternoon post,” as though they were in a constant crisis of affairs, which a line of somebody’s handwriting must settle for them one way or another : an unhappy class of people enough, but whose anxieties, let us hope, are not quite so over- whelming as they would have us believe. It would be unjust, however, to accuse Mr. Hichard Holt of affectation ; he is much too sagacious to be affected, and often finds circumstances much too serious to need any exaggeration of their importance. Indeed, it is just now his constant en- deavour to avoid that appearance of pre-occupation peculiar to weaker brethren of his kind, and to play the part of a frank and easy-going man of the world — that is, of the thoughtless, high- placed, and luxurious world in which he finds himself, to confess the truth, for the first time. It must not, however, be supposed that our new acquaintance is a vulgar fellow. His appearance is good ; he is six feet high, and well-built ; his large features, if somewhat grave and still, are capable of considerable expression, and if he looks old for his age — which is five-and-forty — he has looked about the same age for the last ten years, and will probably look no older for ten years to come. His eyes are hard, and he knows it ; if he could make them otherwise, he would very gladly do so ; he can smile and speak softly, and his tongue has no lack of persuasion upon certain topics ; but when his talk ranges beyond business affairs, he cannot get his eyes to accompany his voice, and the result is a want of harmony. People talk about the intense significance of the jaw and chin, and, very possibly (for there is no limit to such folly), of the lobes of the ears ; but Mr. Holt, who was no fool, and never attempted to deceive himself (whatever his conduct might be as respected others), knew that his eyes were not what they should be, and that it was a great misfortune to him. They were not ugly, by any means : not those hard-boiled ones, the balls of which project like the yolk of a stale poached egg ; but long years of calculation and plodding, and standing upon his guard against rogue and scoundrel, had, as it were, set them, and they could never melt again either with love or pity, how- ever nearly his heart might be touched by either. However, he still finds them exceedingly usefnl ; one glance suffices to put him in possession of the contents of most of the letters that 26 FALLEN' FORTUNES. have arrived for him this morning, after bestowing which, he either tears the communication in small fragments, or places it in a huge pocket-book of Russian leather, which he always carries in his left breast-pocket, giving him the lopsided appear- ance of an amazon. Two notes, however, afford some cause for deliberation, and he gives each a second attentive perusal ; one is from his confidential clerk in Abdell Court. “ Mem. — BrooJcs has cabled as follows : ‘ Sell Lams : whole CONCERN A PLANT.’ ” On another slip of paper was written : Dear Sir, on the whole advisable not to telegraph to you, especially as the exchange had closed when the news arrived.''^ ‘‘Brand has got a head on his shoulders,” mused Mr. Holt, with a grim smile, as he read these words ; “ almost too good a head for my service. On the first opportunity I* shall let him run loose.” “ Astor left yesterday, but with no immediate intention, I have reason to believe, of quitting England. I hope you find the country air is doing you benefit —Yours truly, Robert Brand.” “ Well, that is a good riddance every way, though I should have felt happier had the scoundrel put the seas between him and a certain person ; the last man in the world, however, as it happens, he is likely to foregather with. Master Philip knew too much.” With a thoughtful brow, Mr. Holt takes up the second letter that he had reserved from the batch, and for the second time examined the postmark, Bampton. “ This comes just in the nick of time, for the news it brings will shape my views about the mine. I shall have the whole day to think about how to play my fish. It was uncommon sharp of Brand to recollect that they had a private wire here, which makes all communications public. “ ‘ 1 thought it, on the whole, advisable not to telegraph.^ Con- found his sagacity ! I will certainly get rid of him on the first opportunity, and select a less intelligent lieutenant. If he does not know too much, this shows he has suspicions, and I don’t like suspicious people about me. ‘ Bampton, Headquarters. — Our canvass is now over. The contest will be a narrow one. Mr. Griggs will be the man.'* ” That was all the second note contained, but it seemed to affect its recipient even more gravely than the first. “Things are coming, then, to a crisis,” muttered he, “and earlier than I expected.” He sat, plunged in thought, for a full IN THE ROSE-GARDEN 27 miniite; then, The man has nobody to thank but himself for what will happen,’^ exclaimed he, in a firm voice. If “ the man ’’ — whoever he was — had been standing before him in the flesh, and accusing him of having been the cause of his misfortunes, his denial could not have been more earnest and explicit. As he spoke, a clear and ringing voice made the air musical without : “ Birds in our wood sang, ringing through the valleys : Maud is here, here, here — in among the lilies.” He started up excitedly, his ordinary pale cheek flaming crimson, as a man flushes when another has given him the lie ; but as the song went on, a curious change came over him. The lines of thought and care seemed to grow faint upon his brow, and the whole expression of his face to soften ; his lips parted with a smile, and he lifted up his hand for silence, as though he had not been alone : ‘ ‘ I kissed her slender hand ; she took the kiss sedately ; Maud is not seventeen, but she is tall and stately.” Holt smiled softly towards the window, and, keeping himself concealed behind the curtain, peered cautiously through its folds. In the rose-garden, as it was called, from the flowers to which the little plot of ground was exclusively devoted, and immediately beneath the window, stood Kate Dalton, in the act of plucking a bud which she had just selected from a bunch that grew above her head. Her face was full in view ; the morning sun shone on her bright tresses, and transmuted them to gold ; its beams darted at her eyes so lovingly that she was forced to almost close them, so that their long silken lashes were made plainly visible ; the position of the rosebud necessitated her standing for an instant on her toes, and exemplified that particular grace of which the employment of high-heeled shoes is supposed (very erroneously) to supply an imitation ; the extended arms lent ^ fulness to the otherwise too slender bust; the shapely head seemed to be crowned with nodding roses. It w^as, indeed, “ a picture to make an old man young; and upon Richard Holt, who was by no means old, according to his own reckoning, it had a very singular effect — it made him giddy. His head went round with him ; his heart sank, down, down, with a feeling of sickness ; and for the moment he clung to the curtain to steady himself, if not to preserve him from a fall. The next moment he had stepped quickly across the room to his dressing-case — 28 FALLEN- FORTUNES. not tliG solid and elaborate affair that such articles generally were at Riverside, but a mere roll of leather containing various articles of the toilet — and taken from it a pair of scissors. Slipping these into his pocket, he left his room, and descended the stairs with hurrying steps. The breakfast-parlour, though empty, save for an attendant, had all things prepared for the morning meal ; but he passed by the door, and out into the hall. He paused for an instant at the hat-stand, doubtful whether he should select the “ chimney-pot,^’ which he usually wore, and which he knew suited him best, or the “wideawake,” which he had brought down in compliance with the fashions of the country. Unluckily for his personal appearance, he chose the latter, which had the effect of a clumsy disguise. It took away from him his City air, it is true, but substituted for it that of some confidential servant who has the immediate reversion of his master’s clothes. Aristocracy has not yet issued a stamp by which even the most distinguished member of it can be recog- nised in a bad hat; nor is it everyone who can “carry off” even a wideawake. The newer it is, the worse it looks on some folks ; and the wideawake of Mr. Richard Holt, of Abdell Court, was very new. If the handle of the pair of scissors that were lying in his breast-pocket had been but visible, one would have set him down, I am afraid, as a master tailor. It was not in the nature of things that Mr. Holt should run, but he moved rapidly across the gravel sweep, and through the shrubbery that led by devious ways to the rose-garden, and arrived there just in time to see Kate Dalton — kissed. It is terrible to have to record it, but it is the truth — kissed by a young gentleman. There was no time for Mr. Holt to restrain his headlong speed, and to pretend not to see it. His position was precisely that of the spectator described in that famous ballad, of which all the verses save one have been lost in the mists of time : “ I saw Esau kissing Kate, And the fact is we all three saw, For I saw Esau, he saw me, And she saw I saw Esau.” Only in this case it was not Esau ; for Esau, we have reason to know, was a hairy man, and the offender on the present occasion had a cheek as smooth as a girl’s. Hair is not hair (and how true this of many a native-looking chignon ! ) when it is down, and Jeff’s lip had only down to boast qf . This may not seqm of much IN THE ROSE-GARDEN 29 consequence to the reader, but to Richard Holt it was a great mitigation of the shock which he experienced. The attachment of a boy and girl is never more ridiculous and immaterial than in the eyes of a middle-aged man who himself has only just begun to feel Love’s dart. Moreover, Master Geoffrey Derwent’s lips had only saluted Kate’s fingers, and there is really nothing in that ; for does not the Queen herself permit the same liberty to mayors and consuls ? Kay, even for this transgression there had been a very sufficient cause, had Mr. Holt but known it. He had last set eyes on Kate, you remember, when she was reaching for the rosebud, and trilling that exquisite little verse : “ I kissed her slender hand ; she took the kiss sedately ; Maud is not seventeen, but she is tall and stately.” At that instant, if Mr. Holt had not been in such a hurry to bring the scissors, he might have heard a merry voice chime in with : Maud is tall and stately, but not tall enough to reach that bud without assistance ; ” and then a longer arm than hers interposed, and drew down the flower. When he had done that — not in a hurry, you know, but with a quiet deliberation and ever so much solicitude to remove the thorns from the stalk — it was only in accordance with the eternal fitness of things that he should “ kiss her slender hand and it is my firm conviction that she would have taken it “sedately” enough, but for Mr. Richard Holt’s unexpected intervention. As it was, though her face flushed like any rose around her, she merely observed : “ How rude you are, Jeff;” then turned to the new-comer with a cold “ Good-morning, Mr. Holt.” If she had been seventy instead of seventeen (she was in fact eighteen), she could hardly have carried off* that little incident with greater sang-froid, or more perfect self-command. Master Jeff*, on the other hand, a tall and. comely lad, with light hair, but bright black eyes, glared haughtily at the intruder, as though the rose-garden had been his own private preserve, which the other had violated ; while Mr. Holt stood dumfoundered, and slowly produced his scissors. “ I saw you from my window yonder. Miss Dalton,” — he looked up towards it, as though for corroboration of his story, but her eye did not follow his ; she looked as though, if there was one thing on earth absolutely indifferent to her, and without one scintilla of interest, it was the situation of Mr. Holt’s apartment; “and remarking that you had a difficulty 30 FALLEN FORTUNES. with your friends — or, may I say, relatives ? for there is a strong family likeness — the roses, I brought you this pair of scissors.” “ Thanks,” said Kate, not taking them from his hand; ‘‘ but I have gathered all I want.” She had but two buds, one of which she carried in her left hand, and the stalk of the other she was now tying to a leaf or two with a piece of silk, obviously getting it ready for somebody’s button-hole. That new word “Thanks,” so common in young ladies’ mouths nowadays, seems, somehow, to lack the warmth and grace of their old “ Thank you,” and to Mr. Holt’s ears it sounded particularly cold. He stood snipping the scissors, for want of something to say or do, and gazing longingly at the little bud, which she had by this time transformed into a fairy bouquet .Kate’s heart, which had been hardened by his mal-d-projoos appearance, began to feel some pity for this man, to whom she had certainly been some- what discourteous. “Mamma tells me that you have been kind enough to sacrifice yourself for Tonyas sake, Mr. Holt, so far as to accompany him to the sports at Bleabarrow. Jenny was ‘ spurting ’ him, as he calls it, through his ‘ Caesar ’ this morning, in order that he might go off to them early.” “ It is no sacrifice, I am sure — that is, if I can ever be of any use to you or yours, it never seems so.” “ I don’t see why Mr. Holt should trouble himself,” said Geoffrey, “ since I promised Tony to take him long ago.” “Yes; but then, you see, you are but a boy, like himself, Jeff,” observed Kate; “it would be like the blind leading the blind, to trust you with Tony among all those queer, rough people.” “ I don’t think them at all queer,” returned the lad, brusquely; “ they are honest and hearty folks, who never do harm to any- body, except now and then to themselves, through taking too much beer.” “But then they don’t know what they do,” remarked Mr. Holt, mildly, delighted to find Kate and himself conducting this little argument in concert. “Just so,” said Kate. “How don’t be cross, Jeff, merely because you have not arrived at years of discretion, which is a question of time, you know, though to some people of a very long time.” At this Mr. Holt laughed approvingly, though Kate had MRS. CAMPDEN ORDERS THE PONY^CARRIAGE. sliown no sucli appreciation of his allusion to her likeness to the roses, which he had thought particularly happy and oppor- tune. Jeff took no more notice of his laugh, nor of his remark, than if he had not been px*esent. “ Of course, I knew that Mrs. Campden would object to my going with Tony — she always does object to my doing anything — but I should have thought your mother would have trusted me, Kate.” “ Certainly, my dear Jeff, mamma would trust you ; she always says you are the best of boys. There now, you are taking huff again : and here’s a rosebud for your jacket — I mean your coat.” And with that she placed the little nosegay in his button-hole, while the young fellow thanked her with his eyes. “ That should make amends to Mr. Derwent for anything,” said Mr. Holt, significantly, as the three moved slowly towards the house. “ I am sure I would submit to be distrusted ” “ Or even to be called too young,” interrupted Jeff, stuug into unaccustomed epigram. “ Certainly, I would submit to that indignity,” continued Mr. Holt, good-naturedly — though his unhappy eyes would not look good-natured, in spite of all his efforts — “ and indeed to any other, for such a guerdon. You have still another flower, I see, Miss Dalton, and remember, I did bring you the scissors, though I was too late.” “ You are too late again, Mr. Holt,” answered Kate, gently, as they ascended the steps at the front- door ; “I have only this rosebud left, and I always give one, as you know, to Uncle George.’^ CHAPTER IV. MUS. CAMPDEN ORDERS THE PONY- CARRIAGE. Mr. Campden was not Kate’s uncle, being only, even by marriage, a distant cousin ; but the relations between him and the Daltons were so cordial, that the junior members of the latter family always called him by that title — which I am not quite sure that his wife relished, since she, who was the blood- relative, was never entitled aunt. He was a bluff, kindly man of some fifty years of age, and though he had always been engaged in commerce-— till fortune had filled both his pockets and enabled him to retire on his gains — his appearance was that 32 FALLEN FORTUNES. of a thorougli country gentleman. That he possessed some astuteness, his great success attested ; while that he had some ideas beyond mere money-making was certain, from his choice of Riverside as a residence ; but these mental gifts would never have been guessed at by ordinary observers ; indeed, Machiavelli himself would have been puzzled to make much of Uncle George, since he rarely opened his lips save to admit his meals or the end of a cigar. His existence had been, in fact, absorbed by the superior vitality of his wife. It had not, indeed, been always so ; there were some who professed to have seen him. make some show of resistance to her indomitable will ; but though her seizure of the poor gentleman had been very gradual — inch by inch, as a cobra swallows a rabbit — he had never recovered any portion of himself that had once been appro- priated, and the process of deglutition had long ago been com- pleted. Mr. Campden still drew his breath independently of his wife, and that was all : he never attempted to shape it, without her leave and license, into a word of command, or even the ex- pression of a wish ; at times, when elated, he would break out into a confession of his own state of thraldom — as a helot in his cups might have done — in which there was a touch of humour, bearing witness that he had some individuality still left in him ; but these little jets of independence grew every day more rare, and it was plain that their source was drying up. If he bad been a septuagenarian married to a young girl of twenty, his thraldom could not have been more complete than it had become of late, and an old friend had on one occasion taken the liberty to tell him so. “ I know it, my dear fellow,^’ he had replied, without a trace of irritation at this plain speaking; “and, un- happily, Julia is more than twenty.’^ Indeed, there was no reason — absolutely none — to a looker-on, why Mrs. Campden should have got her husband so entirely under her thumb. She had not been very young when he married her, nor very pretty, nor particularly accomplished ; and whatever might have been her attractions in these respects, they had certainly not improved with years ; yet every year she had placed him in closer bondage, till he could now scarce move hand or foot. He had still, however, a smile for everybody, and it was universally understood that he would do a good turn for anyone, unless his wife had issued a special ukase to the contrary. He was amazingly popular with all young people, and, indeed, with old ones also, although the more thoughtful of his friends regarded his state of servitude with just contempt. MRS. CAMPDEN ORDERS THE PONY-CARRIAGE. 33 When a man is downright henpecked,” said John Dalton, ‘‘ it almost always arises from his having committed peccadillos which have come to his wife’s ears ; but poor Campden has no such ‘ set-oflP’ to comfort him ; he has fal’en a victim to his Julia through sheer indolence.” And this was the true state of the case. Moreover, it cannot be denied that Mrs. Campden possessed that gift in reality which is always imputed to those members of our governing classes who have nothing perceptible to recommend them — administrative capacity. She was essen- tially a managing woman, and would have swallowed everybody else, inch by inch, if she had had the chance, just as she had swallowed her husband ; her love of power had stomach for them all ;” and yet a more unambitious and “ ordinary” looking little woman than Mrs. Campden it is not easy to imagine. Even now, as she sits at the head of her own breakfast-table, there is nothing of despotism in her look or manner ; and only by the unusual quickness with which the servants execute her orders, and wait upon her rather to the exclusion of her guests, would you guess her to be the Tartar she really is. Her skin, however, though not particularly delicate, is of that unfortunate kind that betrays emotion, and her pale face will glow like a peony on very slight occasion ; her voice, too, which is unusually thin and low, will, if opposed, become metallic. Curiously enough, this is the case, though in a less degree, with Miss Mary also ; and when mother and daughter have their little wrangles — in which the latter is always discomfited — their argument at a little distance resembles the dropping of copper coin — as if they were playing “ odd and even” for halfpence. This morning, however, Mrs. Campden is all smiles and harmony ; she has just succeeded in persuading Mrs. Dalton, who sits on her right hand, to accompany her in her pony- carriage that afternoon, for a long drive ; and her victory has flattered her, for she knows that Mrs. Dalton did not want to go, being anxious upon her husband’s account, who is sure to telegraph to her at the close of the poll. “My dear,” observed her hostess, “that is just the reason I wanted to take you ; the time will pass quickly, I hope, in paying our little visits ; and once away from the house, you wdll cease to fidget about the news that may come from Bampton.” “Well, as you please, my dear Julia ; but I am afraid I shall prove but a dull companion,” sighs Mrs. Dalton, after some attempts at escape — as vain as those of a gold-fish in a glass bowl. D 34 FALLEN FORTUNES. havo never found you that, dear Edith/' answers the other, laughingly. “ I wish, Mr. Holf, that you were ascertain of having a pleasant afternoon as I am with Mrs. Dalton. I fear you will find our Bleabarrow festivities very heavy.^' “Yes, indeed, I am sure it is most kind of Mr. Holt to go with Tony," said Mrs. Dalton; “for though I have the utmost faith in Jeff" — here she slid her hand down to Geoffrey’s knee, who sat beside her, and patted it, in sign of affectionate con- fidence — “ his good-nature has made him too much of a playmate with my boy, to admit of his ever using due authority." “ Oh, that is not to be thought of for a moment,’' observed Mrs. Campden, austerely. “ I don’t think any harm is likely to happen to my young charge," smiled Mr. Holt; “unless he should insist upon com- peting among the light-weights." “ And why not, if there are boys ? " inquired Tony, earnestly. “ Ob, how shocking ! " cried Mrs. Campden. “ That would be a pretty thing for a young gentleman to do : to wrestle with all those vulgar creatures." “ It would be only excusable if he were standing for Bampton instead of his father,” observed Mr. Holt ; “ then, indeed, it would go down very well, as a proof that, though a Whig, he had got no pride about him." “ By-the-bye, Mr. Holt, you have not chanced to hear any- thing this morning about the election, I suppose ? ’’ inquired Mrs. Dalton ; not because she thought it at all probable that he had done so, but in order to anticipate any question upon his part which it would be embarrassing to her to answer. “ Not a word," answered Mr. Holt, touching at the same time — whether in proof of his veracity, or to convince himself of the safety of the manuscript — the breast-pocket which con- tained the memorandum from Headquarters, “ But your husband is sure to telegraph directly the thing is certain." “Ob, I /moir," said Mrs. Dalton; “and that is why I was rather wishing to stay at home this afternoon ; " and she cast an appealing look towards the mistress of the house. Whatever that lady had once acquired, however, whether promise or con- cession, she never dreamed of giving up again, but used as a possession of her own, and a basis from which to start in search of further gains. “ You would not object if you and I were to lunch a little earlier than the rest, Edith, would you," inquired she, “ as we have a good many calls to make ? " MR. CAMPDEN ORDERS THE BAROUCHE. 35 Certainly not,” said Mrs. Dalton : the earlier she started, as she fondly hoped, the earlier she would be permitted to return and receive dear John's despatch. But she reckoned without her hostess. “ That’s right, my dear ; I knew you would not mind ; and that will jast enable me to push on as far as the Park, and call on Lady Brodie, who is generally a little beyond my beat.” CHAPTER V. MR. CAMPDEN ORDERS THE BAROUCHE. Thus, therefore, it came about that, at the usual luncheon- hour, four of the breakfast-party had gone their ways, and there were gathered around the great table only the host and the three young ladies — for Jenny generally made her appearance at the mid-day meal. “How, Uncle George,” said Kate, merrily, “ I hope you are going to be very polite indeed to us girls, because, you see, we have no other cavalier.” “Don’t say polite, Kitty,” cried Jenny; “ don’t waste your opportunities like that ; of course he’ll be polite ; say devoted.^^ “ My dears, I am devoted,” said Uncle George ; “ very much so indeed. If I can do anything to please yon, pray mention it.” “ He is a nice old papa, he really is,” remarked Miss Mary, like an auctioneer who is recommending some article to an audience who have doubts. “ He has done himself a mischief already, upon your account, young ladies, by eating luncheon out of courtesy ; let me tell you that,'^ observed he. “ Oh, papa, how can you say so, when you know mamma always cries out if you have two helps of meat, as you did to- day ; and you had bottled stout, too ! ” “ All for your sakes, my dears ; I felt that what Curzon calls ‘ support ’ would be necessary if I had to amuse you young people. And now I am prepared for further sacrifices. Suppose I take a glass of sherry ? ” It was very unusual to see Mr. Campden in such a lively mood : he was generally as dumb as any china figure, and almost as motionless ; now he was more like something in gutta- percha from which a weight has been removed, and which assumes its natural shape with elasticity. It was only very seldom that his wife was away at meal-times. 36 FALLEN FORTUNES, My dear papa, you will certainly go to sleep, and be of no use at all ! ’’ “Not a bit of it; lam all for exertion. Now suppose you and Kitty row me about on the river, and Jenny steers.’* “Oh, Uncle George, we have got blisters on our hands already,” said Kitty, “from rowing you about; you are really very lazy.” “ Well, supposing you girls dress up in Eastern costume — you are fond of dressing up — and come and dance before me. Pretend to be nautch-girls (if that is the way you pronounce it); and Jenny shall clap my hands together— if I like it — for applause.” “ It is a capital idea,” cried Jenny. “ Let us get out all Mrs. Campden’s beautiful Indian shawls, and do the thing com- pletely.” The three girls burst out laughing, partly at the audacity of this proposal, but principally at the very long face which it caused Mr. Campden to draw. “I don’t think that will quite do, my dears,” said he. “Now, what do you say to billiards? Mary and Kate shall play, and Jenny shall mark ! and I will show how you ought to have played when you make mistakes. That will give me a good deal to do, but I don’t mind.” “ You are very rude. Uncle George, instead of being polite, far less devoted,” said Kitty. “ Well, my dear, I only throw out these ideas as mere suggestions. If you are for archery, I can pull the bow against anybody, though I can never, somehow, shoot off the arrow ; and as for croquet, there are doubtless more stupid games than croquet, though I confess I have never ‘seen them.” “ But Jenny can neither shoot nor play croquet, papa,” observed Mary, softly. “ Oh, pray don’t mind me,” said Jenny, wdth a little flush. “ I shall be very happy looking on.” “ My dear Jenny, a thousand pardons,” cried Mr. Campden, vehemently, his ruddy face becoming quite purple. “ It was the stout that made me so stupid. The only amends I can think of is to leave our occupation for the afternoon entirely in your hands. Let the rest of us be Miss Jenny’s slaves, and do what- ever she pleases. What do you say, girls ? ” “ That will be capital ! ” cried Kate and Mary, simultaneously. “ Do you really mean it, Uncle George ? ” asked Jenny, gravely. MR, CAMPDEN ORDERS THE BAROUCHE, 37 “Unquestionably, my dear. I feel already like Herod when he made that imprudent promise to his step-daughter — but my word is passed.’’ “ But there are so many deliciously naughty things that I should like to do, Uncle George,” said Jenny, thoughtfully. “ It has long been my desire to go out in the steam-yacht with a few friends who do not in the least understand the machinery, and to see what will come of it ; whether it would ever stop, or not, of itself ; and what we would do beyond making it whistle.” “I am truly thankful to say,” observed Mr. Campden, piously, “ that there is not enough water in the river to float the steam-yacht.” “ So am I,” cried Kate and Mary, also gratefully. It was well known to both of them that Jenny was afraid of nothing, and that her love of danger and excitement was in inverse proportion to her feeble physical powers. “ Well, then — it is a great bathos, after my steam yacht notion — but, next to that expedition, I should like us all to go to Bleabarrow to see the wrestling.” “ Oh, how delightful ! ” cried Kate. “ Oh my goodness ! ” ejaculated Mary, “ what will mamma say ? ” Mr. Campden poured himself out another glass of sherry, and ran his hands through his thin thatch of grey hair. Beneath his breath he might have been heard to murmur, “ Gracious heavens ! ” but the expression of his face was pretty firm. “ You think jou would enjoy that sort of thing, Jenny ? — I mean these games ? ” “ I am sure I should — that is, looking on at them. I should not make much of wrestling myself. Jeff says it’s a noble spectacle ; and Jeff will be there, you know, and dear Tony, and Mr. Holt. Fancy how surprised they will he to see us ! They will scarcely believe their eyes. Come, Uncle George, you’ll keep your word.” Mr. Campden swallowed the sherry and rang the bell, for the discussion had lasted long after luncheon was over, and the servants had retired to their own mid-day meal. “Jeff took the dog-cart,” observed he, “and my wife the pony -carriage.” “ Then we had better take the brougham,” suggested Mary. “ No, my dear ; I think the barouche would be more comfortable for all of us ; and, besides, it will afford a better view.” 38 FALLEN FORTUNES, Uncle George, yon are thinking of what will be more com- fortable for me,” said Jenny, softly. “Well, it would not do to forget you twice in one afternoon, my dear,” was the pleasant response. “ Now, go and get your things on, girls, that we may start at once ; and then we can get back pretty early, you know — before your mamma comes home* John, let the barouche be at the door in twenty minutes.” He had not issued such a command without consultation with that barouche’s mistress, far less in direct opposition to her, for twenty years. “ My dear Jenny, I am quite jealous of you,” cried Mary Campden, as the girls trooped upstairs together, to attire them- selves for the anticipated treat. “ I am sure no seductions of mine would ever have persuaded papa to do such a thing. Why, it quite ‘ partakes of the nature of a lark,’ as Jeff calls it ; does it not ? ” “ She must have ‘ given him medicines,’ as Falstaff says, to make dear Uncle George so complaisant,” laughed Kitty ; she was a young lady who liked Shakespeare better than the musical glasses, and had a very pretty “ trick of iteration.” “ She has certainly given him medicines.” “No, my dears,” said Jenny, decisively; “it was neither my charms nor my medicines — though some people do take it medicinally : we owe everything to that second glass of sherry.” CHAPTER VI. THE GUIDE RACE. “ Sports,” as the celebration of country games is often locally called, are for the most part, in Derbyshire, much the same as they have now become in other places — an excuse for half-a- dozen excursion trains to convey the “rough” element from the neighbouring towns, and pour it over the peaceful fields, like sewage, only by no means with the same beneficial results ; but at Bleabarrow this was not the case. The prizes offered for competition were too small, and the place itself too remote, to attract much public attention, so that the proceedings were of a “ truly rural ” and Arcadian kind. The wrestlers were not attired, as they are now often seen in the heart of Westmoreland, and even in Cumberland, in party- coloured tights and fancy jerkins, giving them the air of street acrobats rather than of honest dalesmen ; no guerdon was THE GUIDE RACE, 39 offered for tlie neatest wrestling costume/^ but men came in their working- day clothes, and when they stepped into the ring, which was open to all comers,’’ merely threw down their coats and waistcoats, gave their old-fashioned “turnip” watches to a friend to hold, and kicked off their shoes ; then — save that when their names were called they rubbed their hands in saw- dus<^, so that they should not slip their “holt” — they were ready for the fray. Of course, there are objections to such sports in any shape, as there are to most things nowadays, thanks to the very superfine tone of our public morality ; but if the objectors never amuse themselves in a worse way, they must be w^hat advertising tradesmen term “ a selected lot.” To a mere ordinary mortal, to whom a little physical rivalry seems no more hurtful than any other form of the competition system, they afford an innocent and agreeable spectacle,- though the actors are, no doubt, as Mrs. Campden described them, “vulgar creatures,” whose “ Sunday best ” garments (if they possessed such things at all) are not much better than those that they cast upon the greensward. They are, after all, fellow-creatures, and it is not uninterest- ing to watch the play of human nature that accompanies this exhibition of thews and sinews. How anxiously, when a com- petitor’s name is called, he listens for that of his rival, which, like his own, is drawn at a venture from the hat ; and how the face lights up if it is a green-hand, and grows serious if it is a veteran whose laurels are not easily won. To the young ones, especially, who have perhaps entered their names for the first time, this in all-important, as their highest ambition is to live into “ the third round,” and their hopes of it can only reasonably lie in being opposed to antagonists of their own calibre. It is very unusual, however, for anyone to give up his chance with- out a contest ; a mere stripling will do his best against the last year’s “champion,” and very tenderly the giant will take him up — and in most cases lay him down. But now and then there is an unexpected resistance ; the youthful aspirant is supple and quick ; or the slippery grass gives him an advantage, and when all eyes are expecting an easy victory, the giant falls undermost instead of the pigmy. Then a shout of “ Bonny lile one” (for little one) breaks forth from the assemblage, that startles the buzzard on the peaks of Bleabarrow; and some- times a village maiden (his betrothed) will permit herself (for I have seen her do it) to be so far carried away by a natural enthusiasm as to give the “ lile one ” another sort of hug than 45 FALLEM FOR TUNER. that wliicli he has just experienced, to the admiration of all beholders. No one “ bites the dust ” in the Homeric way — in fact, there is none to bite, save wliab the combatants take up in their hands — and the danger, save of a “ ricked back or a sprained ankle, is slight indeed ; bub the strain, and the tug, and the tussle — every muscle at its fullest stretch, the legs vibrating, yet stiff as nails, the heart beating at highest pressure, the breath coming in sobs and gasps — are grand to see, and afford the elements of an epic. The spectacle of it all entranced young Tony to a degree not attained even at the Christmas pantomimes in London, with which he had been familiar from very early years ; for here all was reality ; and if there were no splendours in the way of glare and glitter, yet the amphitheatre of sky-piercing crags in which the sports were held had a certain majesty even for his boyish eye, while every point in the proceedings was made plain to him by Jeff (who had them at his fingers’ ends), an advantage which in the case of the pantomimes w’as often denied to him, the explanation thereof being beyond the wit of man. If the two youths were thus wrapt up in the combatants of the ring, their elder companion was equally preoccupied in another fashion : his face indeed was fixed upon the wrestlers, but his mind was busy with the contents of those two little notes we have seen him receive that morning ; his thoughts, set in motion by the one, crossed the far-stretching seas, and lighted upon a certain valley, shadowed by a mightier hill than any now beheld by his physical eyes, and canopied by a more cloudless sky ; the scenery was that of the - tropics, but the skilled hand of the mechanic had been at work therein, and had compelled the mountain-stream to do his bidding; there were water- wheeled stamping mills, such as are used in Cornwall, and all the apparatus employed in mining enterprises ; as Holt beheld it, the mill-wheels were still turning, and the huge hammers at work upon the spalling floors, because he was but recalling a picture that had once actually presented itself to his vision ; but he knew that no such busy scene was in truth being enacted in that far-off valley, since the Lara Mine had failed to produce its yield of gold. From Brazil his thoughts would leap to Bampton — for there was a connection between those distant spots — where they could make no such picture for him, because he had no personal acquaintance with the place, but wandered vaguely over booths and hustings, and THE GUIDE RACE, 41 excited mobs of men — such as he had seen elsewhere at election times. “ The two blows together will have a crushing force,” mur- mured he, not without a touch of pitj ; “ but he cannot blame me for either.” Thus it happened that the first contingent from Riverside Hall had their attention so engrossed that they never noticed the arrival of the second in the neighbourhood of the ring, where, indeed, as it had seemed that morning, they would have been as likely to put in an appearance as the bishop of the diocese to be seen at a man-and-dog- fight. Moreover, there were other carriages present, and some with ladies in them — for the local gentry and their wives were not all so exclusive in their views as Mrs. Campden — so that the barouche was no very conspicuous object. Mary and Kate enjoyed exceedingly the notion of watching Jeff, and Tony, and Mr. Holt, as they sat, all unconscious of their presence, in the very primitive grand-stand — a bank of rough seats, with a slanting roof of wood — which was the place of honour; but Jenny’s whole attention was directed to the sports. For her (as she lay propped upon soft cushions, yet even then not wholly free from pain) the feats of strength and agility of which she was a witness had a marvellous charm. She was not frightened, as her sister and cousin were, at the crisis of each combat, when one put out his strength to overcome the other, and to bear him to the earth ; and when the victory was achieved, and Kate would cry, “Poor fellow! how hard he struggled,” in pity for the vanquished, Jenny’s tiny palms were doing their best to swell the triumph of the conqueror. As for Uncle George, his principal occupation was to consult his watch, and calculate how far by this time his wife had probably progressed upon her “calls,” and how much, there- fore, of margin there was left for them to go home in, and still anticipate her return. Presently, a short stout gentleman rode up to the side of the carriage upon a pony, and addressed the party en hloc, “Well, I never! Who would have thought of seeing you here? I am sure the sport committee ought to feel flattered. How did you get leave, young ladies ? ” “We did not get leave. Hr. Curzon,” laughed Mary. “Mamma had gone out for a drive ” “ Oh, I see ; when the cat’s away — I mean — ahem ! ” and the fat little doctor rubbed his nose, which was enormous, and shot 42 ^ PALLEN'FORTUNES. out of liis bright black eyes a glance of sly significance at Mr. Campden. “Well, I tlionght there could be no possible harm in bring- ing the girls,” observed that gentleman, apologetically. “We were only driving by — you see the horses have not even been taken out — and just looked in for a few ” (he was going to say' “minutes,” for the fact is the whole speech was but the rehearsal of what he intended to say, when the time arrived, to Mrs. Campden herself. He would never have the courage, he felt, now that the effects of the stout and sherry had evapora^ ed from his brain, to own the whole truth) — But luckily at that moment a great shout arose over some prostrate wrestler, and spared him farther humiliation by attraeting his interlocutor’s attention. “Capital fall, by jingo ! ” cried the doctor; “ and how long it lasted after they got hold ! You were timing it, I see.” “ Two hours and a half,” said Mr. Campden, gravely, “ or perhaps even three.” “ My dear sir, it was not three minutes. What are you thinking of ? “ To be sure, to be sure. I meant three minutes,” stammered the squire, for such he loved to be called by his Bleabarrow neighbours. “A very pretty fall, indeed.” He had been thinking of the “ margin ” so exclusively that he had not even noticed the contest w^as decided. “ Have you seen our young friends yonder, and Mr. Holt ? ” “ Not 1. I am on my rounds, my good sir — professional duty ; only, as I was passing by, I thought I’d just look in — like you — upon these wrestling fellows. I did not expect to find my patient here ; ” and he turned to Jenny with a look the tenderness of which redeemed his monstrous nose and purple face, and made him almost handsome. It was a face of great intelligence, notwithstanding its colour — which was solely owing to the inclemencies of the weather, to which his practice exposed him ; and among the many advantageous surroundings among which Mr. Campden’s lines had fallen, that gentleman justly counted it not the least that Dr. Curzon was his neighbour. One of the greatest drawbacks of a country life is inaccessibility to medical aid, and also the inferior description of that assistance when it is procured ; but in Dr. Curzon the tenants of Biverside Hall had a doctor in whom they could have confidence, at their very doors — that is to say, but half-a-dozen miles away by road ; and only half THE GUIDE RACE. 43 that distance if you crossed the river and climbed the crags, and so dropped down upon the doctor’s cottage in Sanbeck Valley. He was welcome everywhere, not only by the sick-bed, but at the dinner table of those whose state of health never required his professional presence ; and nobody that was not quite a new- comer in the neighbourhood would have dreamed of saying that it was ‘‘only the doctor” when his staunch little pony, with its heavy burden, came trotting up their carriage-sweep. “ Suppose we say. Uncle George, that you brought me here to see the doctor!” cried Jenny, naively — “ to meet him by appointment at the sports ! When the people are not looking, I will show him my tongue, and he shall prescribe for me. Then it will be all right, you know, and no story.” “I don’t think that will do,” observed Mr. Campden, doubt- fully. “ No, no ! we were just driving out, and looked in ; which is, after all, pretty much what happened. There is no occasion to go beyond that. And I really think, my dears, that we had better be turning home.” “ But, Uncle George, there’s the Guide Bace,” expostulated Jenny; “you will surely not take us away before we have seen that ? ” “ The Guide Bace ! ” replied Mr. Campden, mechanically, as he fingered his repeater. “ What is that ? ” “Why, squire, you ought to know,” put in Dr. Curzon ; “ it’s a thing that we are very proud of in this country, because we flatter ourselves it assimilates us to the mountain districts. It makes old Bleabarrow hold its head up to think that it could possibly require the services of a guide, like Helvellyn or Sea Fell. It is but 900 feet, yet it is a stiff climb to that pile of stones yonder ; and I doubt whether any of these young fellows will do it in — what shall we say ? ” Mr. Campden’s lips were following the strokes of his repeater, which was talking in his waistcoat-pocket in obedience to its pressure on its handle. “ One — two — three — four — aye, and a quarter of an hour,” he answered, nervously. “ I’ll bet you a shilling they don’t do it under the five-and- twenty minutes,” replied the little doctor. “ It has never been done under twenty-five since Longstreet’s time, the very neatest cragsman of his time ; and the heat to-day is something Why, what’s the matter. Miss Kate ? They’re peeling for the race, that’s all 1 it’s not a fight.” ‘‘ Yes ; but look — looh — fhere’s Jeff amongst them. Jeff’s 44 FALLEN FORTUNES, going to run. How very angry Mrs. Campden will be with him ! “Pooh, pooh!’’ answered the doctor, sharply; “let her be angry — I mean she has no right to be anything of the sort. Why, it is very creditable to the young fellow to show such pluck ; and I hope he won’t be the last in.” “ Ob, papa ! ” cried Mary, “ do you see what Geoffrey is doing ? ” “ I see he’s taking off his coat and waistcoat ; and I should like to do the same,” said Mr. Campden. “‘I would take off my flesh, and sit in my bones,’ as somebody says, ‘ this weather, if the arrangements of nature permitted of it.’ ” “But he is going to run^ papa.” “Ah, there I think he’s a fool, Polly ; I wouldn’t run.” “ But he is going to join in the Guide Race up the hill — to run for money.” “ He is not, Mary,” cried Kate decisively ; “ I am quite certain that Jeff would not do that. The race is open to every- body, and he wishes to try his speed against the others, that’s all. You don’t suppose he would take any of the prizes, even if he won them, away from these poor people ? ” “At all events, I am sure mamma will be exceedingly put out,” said Mary ; “ but, of course, if papa has no objection ” “ Eh, ah 1 ” said Mr. Campden, who had once more abandoned himself to his apprehensions. “What is that you are saying about your mother ? What the deuce is the matter now ? ” “ Nothing is the matter. Uncle George, except that I want your arm,” said Jenny, gaily. “ I must stand up to see this, and you know I can’t do that without your help. There’s a dear good uncle ; and now don’t you move one inch till all is over. There are six of them, and Geoffrey makes the seventh. Now I call this delightful. There’s our dear friend, Mr. Holt — how I should like to see him run up the crags — and Tony looking at Jeff as though he were a demi-god.” “And, upon my life, he looks like one,” cried Dr. Curzon, admiringly. “ Step on the seat, my dear Miss Kitty, and lean on me ; the pony will stand quite still, for he has been used to be shot over, though not by such bright eyes as yours. Now, I call that the model of a young fellow. Who is that he has just given his watch to, to take care of ? I hope he’s an honest man.” “ My dear Dr. Curzon,” said Mary, reprovingly, “ that is Mr. Holt ; a friend of papa’s, or rather of Mr. Dalton’s. Did you not see him at the charades last night ? ” THE GUIDE RACE. 45 “ I daresay I might have seen him, Miss Mary, but I did not notice him. The fact is, my attention was wholly monopolised by a couple of pretty housemaids ; the fairest, flirtiest little Now, don’t you push me off the pony. Mr. Campden, I wush you’d speak to these two girls.” “ Speak ! you might as well speak to the winds,” answered the squire, his large arm enfolding Jenny’s waist with clumsy tenderness. “ Gad ! you don’t mean to say, doctor, they’re going straight up yonder, between those flags ? Why, at this distance, it seems almost perpendicular ! ” “ Seems ? nay, it 2^,” exclaimed the doctor, ‘‘ as you shall see. Here’s an opera-glass, which I brought for the very purpose ; and if Miss Jenny will honour me by using it We’ll call it a stethoscope at home, if you please : the doctor brought his stethoscope to the sports, as agreed upon. Eh, squire ? ” “Yes ; it is all very well for old bachelors to joke about other people’s wives,” grunted Mr. Campden ; “ but, by Jove ! if you had married Julia, and had taken her barouche to a prize-fight — that’s what she supposes this sort of thing to be — you’d be as glad of an excuse as I am. Thank goodness, they’re starting at last. You don’t care to see more than the start, do you, girls ?” “ Uncle George ! ” cried Jenny, earnestly, “ I must see this race out ; I never felt so excited in my life.” “ Which must be very bad for you, my dear Jenny.” “ Not a bit of it,” said the doctor; “it will do her all the good in the world. Guide races are recommended by the faculty for her particular complaint, which, as you see, is mostly ‘ temper.’ ” “ He’s over the wall ! ” cried Kitty, enthusiastically. “ Like a bird,” ejaculated the doctor. “ If it was ‘ Fire ! ” they could not have done it quicker — the whole seven — nor have had much less on them,” added he, sotto voce. “ By jingo ! but they’re close together ; you could cover them with a handkerchief ! ” cried the squire, roused to unwonted interest in the proceedings. “ There, now they’re scattering ;a bit. Now the pace begins to tell, and the amateur to succumb to the professional. It’s a case of ‘ bellows to mend,’ I fear, with Master Jeff.” “ Not a bit of it,” answered the doctor, indignantly ; “ he is only going round the wood instead of through it, which is the quicker way, although the longer. See ; two of them have followed his lead. Jeff has got good wits as well as good wind, let me tell you.” 46 FALLEN FORTUNES. Kitty’s little hand was leaning on llie doctor’s shoulder, though up to this point he had scarcely been aware of it; and now he felt it lean hard. She was thanking him by that silent pressure for his defence of her favourite. The scene had now become very exciting. The seven com- petitors had already reached the high ground, yet did not in the least relax their speed ; a thicket of brushwood immediately intervened, into which four plunged, whose heads and shoulders could be seen making way through it, at a diminished rate ; the three others ran round, and were first upon the other side, the young blacksmith of Sanbeck leading ; then Jeff ; then a certain gamekeeper, said to be able to tire out any sportsman upon moor or fell. Dr. Curzon gave a short biography of each of the half-dozen champions, with whose career he was perfectly familiar. “ I shall be able to certify that Master Jeff’s rivals were all emi- nently respectable members of society,” concluded he, slily, in Mr. Campden’s ear. “ Tush ! ” said the squire ; let me enjoy the race.” When the first climbers got to the steep rocks between the flags, they had become to the naked eye little more than moving specks ; and J enny alone could make them clearly out by help of the glass. “The blacksmith is still ahead,” said she; “and Jeff is shoulder to shoulder with the other man. What did you call him, doctor ? ” “Well, I said he was a gamekeeper; between ourselves, Miss Jenny” (this he whispered), “he’s a poacher.” “He’s ap. uncommonly good climber, at all events,” said Jenny, admiringly. “ But Jeff goes like a chamois too.” “ Let me have the glass a moment,” said Kitty, softly. Her heart was beating almost as quickly as poor Jeff’s, who was doing a very nasty bit of crag- work ; it looked as steep as a wall, even to her — to the others it was like a window-pane with three flies upon it. Hot a hundred feet above it was a pile of stones — marking the summit of the hill — which each had to round before beginning the race home. She had gazed upon it from her own room at the Hall a hundred times, but hence- forward it would have a personal interest for her. What endurance, what fatigue, was he not undergoing ! Matched against grown men like these, and all (as she well knew, in spite of Mary’s ill-natured remarks) for the honour of the thing ; for there was honour in it. “ He’s down ! ” exclaimed she, eagerly. “ Who’s down ? Not Jeff! ” cried Jenny. THE GUIDE RACE. 47 Jeff ? No!’' returned Kitty, contemptuously; it’s the blacksmith.” “Poor fellow!” said Mary; “he has not hurt himself, I hope.” “ You had better go up and see,” said Jenny, rather rudely ; “ for my part, I should like them all to slip except Jeff.’^ “ Oh, so would I,” said Mary, “ so far as that goes.” “ That is the true female view of justice,” chuckled the doctor. “ As for you, Kitty, you would like them all to have apoplectic fits, would you not ? ” “ No, sir ; I should like Jeff* to win, but to do it fairly.” The doctor patted approvingly the hand that rested on his shoulder ; forgetting that Kitty had quitted her hold to take possession of the glass. “ You need not squeeze Tmj fingers. Dr. Curzon,” said Mary, comprehending his error. “You need not talk about it, my dear, if I did,” answered the doctor, imperturbably ; he had been nearly half a century in practice as a medical man, and was not easily put out by a mistake. “ He is round the stones,” exclaimed Kitty; “both of them. Now they are coming to the steep place again — oh, surely they won’t run down that. I cannot look at them.” “ Give me the glass,” cried Jenny, importunately. It was popularly understood that she was “ all nerves,” but her hand was steady enough as she brought the instrument to bear upon the returning athletes. “ Jeff and the gamekeeper are far ahead,” said she; “ they are coming like the wind. Well clone ! Oh, I wish I was a man like you. Uncle George, that I could add, ‘ By jingo ! ’” “Why, what’s the matter, lass ? ” asked the squire. “Jeff has just jumped a boulder like a deer : they are leap- ing from stone to stone, as the w^ater comes down the fall in wet w^eatber. I would rather be able to leap like that than anything in the world.” The doctor pursed his lips, and gave a little sigh, but Jenny neither saw nor heard him. “ If nothing happens, one of these two will win. Think of that, Kitty ; Jeff will be second, at all events. Oh dear, oh dear ! they cannot stop themselves.” “ Good heavens ! what has happened ? ” cried the squire. Kitty did not speak, but the doctor felt both her hands suddenly clutch his shoulder. 48 FALLEN FORTUNES, Why, tliey’ll have to go tlirougli the wood instead of round it.” “ Is iliat all ? You gave me such a iurn,” said Mary, petlishly. “That is just what they could not give themselves, said Kitty: “they are coming right through the copse instead of round it.” “ They are wise,” said the doctor ; “ they have the ground with them this journey. By Jove ! it’s a fine race.” By this time the two leading figures were well in sight, and a mighty cheer burst from the excited throng of spectators, as now the one and now the other seemed to have a few feet of vantage. A stone wall lay before them, then a piece of slanting tnrP, below which was a gully, into which both had descended on their way up — it being of course impossible to clear it from that direction. After that was the “ run in ” over a level grass- field with another stone wall at the finish. Both topped the fir.-^t wall at the same instant, and then the gamekeeper began to lead : it was plain that, though not more agile among the crags, he was a trifle more speedy on the turf than his younger com- petitor. He would certainly be first at the gap that led down into the gully, and consequently first out of it, after which, barring accidents, the race would be his. The party from the Hall could discern this as clearly as the umpire himself, and a gloom fell upon them accordingly. A roar of exultation suddenly arose. “ By gad ! Jeff’s going to jump it,” cried the squire, excitedly. “He’s going to try it,” murmured the doctor, mechanically putting his hand to his pocket, to feel if his case of instruments was in its accustomed place. “ He’ll break his legs, if not his neck.” Jeff^s plan was indeed a desperate one. Finding himself out- paced by his rival, he had avoided the gap altogether, and was making straight for the gully at its highest point, intending to treat it as a ditch. If he cleared it, he would not only save something of the distance, but all the time which the other would consume in descending and ascending. But if he did not clear it, there would be twenty feet of fall upon a stony bottom — the bed, in fact, of a dry torrent. On he came like a race-horse ; there was no time to pull himself together, nor even “ to think about it” (as Jeff himself afterwards allowed, in depreciation of his own feat) ; and the next instant, that apprehensive “ Ah-h-h-h ! ” arose from the spectators, such as salutes all “ deeds of derring-do ” while in MAKING THE BEST OF IT, 49 progress, followed instantaneously by the shout which proclaims success. JefiP had lighted upon the tips of his toes at the very verge of the chasm ; there was not an inch of margin ; but he had done it ; and now he was half-way across the field before his rival had emerged from the gully. “ Oh, JeflP, dear Jeff*, I never liked you so much before ! cried Jenny, her frail limbs “ all of a tremble,^^ and the tears running down her cheeks like rain. “ Was it not plucky of him, Kitty ? But Kitty could not have spoken had she been offered, like “ Conversation’’ Coleridge, half-a- crown for every word. Her face was white, and her eyes seemed to start forth to meet the victorious boy, as he climbed over the last stone wall, not so lightly as he had crossed it last — but yet without signs of positive distress — and ran in to the goal the winner by half-a- dozen seconds. “ Back, back ! ” cried the doctor, riding in among the people that were pressing around the lad and cheering him vociferously. “ Give him room and air.” Then presently he reappeared at the side of the barouche. “The boy is well enough, but awfully ‘pumped’ and ex- hausted. It is my opinion” — and when the doctor used that form of words, he meant what he said — “ that he would be none the better for receiving your congratulations just at pre- sent, young ladies. He does not even know you’re here, you see ” “Ay, then we had better be off* before he finds it out,” put in the squire, eagerly. “Then we shall get nicely home before — that is, in time to receive your mother, Mary.” CHAPTER VII. MAKING THE BEST OF IT. “ Some one has been to call,” observed Mrs. Campden to her companion, as, driving up the carriage-sweep within an hour or so of dinner-time, her sharp eyes remarked the recent traces of wheel and hoof. “ I should not wonder if it was Lady Blanche Ealing.” “ Mr. Holt and the boys were going to the sports, were they not ? ” returned Mrs. Dalton, not, it must be confessed, with any signs of overpowering interest in the question ; for the last two hours her thoughts had been at home — watching for her husband’s telegram ; and neither the calls, nor her companion’s E 50 FALLEN FORTUNES, conversation, had been able to secure the attention which she would fain have given to them. “Mj dear Edith ” — she spoke with an emphasis dictated bj a due sense of the fitness of things — “ you don’t suppose I should have sent out anything but the dog-cart with that Mr. Holt ? There has been a pair of horses here — look at the hoof-marks. It is very annoying if it has been Lady Blanche, for that will be the second time I have missed her. Such a charming person ; the Earl of Beefampton’s daughter, and, socially speaking, the lady of this part of the county. Who has called, Marks ? asked she of the butler, who received them at the hall door. ISTo one, ma’am — leastways, Mr. Dimple came on some business about the church-sittings ; but it would do just as well, I was to say, with his compliments, another day.” ‘‘But some carriage has been here, besides the dog-cart.” “ Oh, yes, ma’am ; the barouche. Master took out the young ladies in it.” “ Is there any message forme, Marks ? ” inquired Mrs. Dalton, unable any longer to bear her suspense, though unwilling enough to interrupt the inquiries of her hostess. “ Yes, ma’am ; a telegram : Miss Jenny has it.” The invalid girl had been for so many years a child- guest at Riverside, that in old Marks’ eyes she was still Miss Jenny, and would probably remain so for ever. “ She is up in her own room, I think, ma’am.” Mrs. Dalton flew upstairs to the apartment thus indicated, where she found Jenny upon her spring-couch — the unwonted fatigues of the day having somewhat exhausted her frail frame. “ Oh, mamma ! there is a telegram from papa.” “ What is it, child ? ” inquired her mother, anxiously. Jenny put the slip of paper in her hand without speaking. “ Shall come by the 6.30 train, as proposed. Nomp.^^ “ Why, what does he mean by Nomp “ I am afraid it means he is not elected : he wished us to understand, without telling others, that he was no M.P. ; at least, that is what I make it out to be.” “ Dear, dear ! ” sighed Mrs. Dalton. “ I am very sorry, upon papa’s account, mamma, because I am afraid he will be disappointed ; but except for that — you know we have often agreed that he will be happier as he is.” Mrs. Dalton did not reply, but withdrew at once to her own room. There was something in the bareness of the communica- MAKING THM BES7' OF IT. St tion she had just received — though telegrams are not expected to be effusive — that chilled her, and seemed to give an additional seriousness to the missive of the morning. The latter had enjoined silence upon her as regarded her husband’s anticipa- tions of the election, and even now that it was over he seemed to have a disinclination to make known the result. What did ^ this reticence augur in one who had been wont — until of late ^ months — to be the most frank and demonstrative of men ? It ' was true that he had given utterance to no expression of annoy- ance, but the brevity of his message spoke to her, in language that she alone understood, of the chagrin and bitterness that he was enduring. “ Ho M.P.” was all he had said ; but no “ Form ” with which the Telegraph Company could have supplied her would have been sufficient to contain her para- phrase of those few letters. She was consumed with vague apprehensions upon his account ; for she knew not why her husband should be thus cast down, and that was the most bitter thought of all. She was far too wise, however, to consult upon such a matter with a third person, or to allow others to read her anxiety ; and she presently descended to the drawing-room, to await her husband’s arrival, as though only dinner had been in prospect. She found the rest of the company already assembled there, and became at once conscious that something unpleasant had occurred among them. The quarter of an hour before dinner-time is proverbially an embarrassing period, but it was obvious that on this particular occasion it had been a very uncomfortable one. Her first glance, mother-like, was given to her own belongings, and so far as they were concerned, it seemed that the explosion — which had certainly taken place, for the air was still heavy with the smoke of it — had spared them, whatever harm it had wrought to others. Jenny was on the sofa, with a book before her eyes, which would not have been the case — for she was bold as a lion — had she been under fire ; Kate, with a flushed cheek, was looking out of the window, to avoid, as her mother guessed, gazing on the victim under punishment ; Tony was standing by her with his hand fast clutched in hers, but his glowing face turned towards the scene of action ; Mary Campden was smoothing her gown, an action she used whenever ill at ease : all these, it was evident, were non-combatants. At the mantelpiece, with her back to the ferns and flowers which filled the useless grate, stood the mistress of the house, and by her side its so-called master was twirling his whiskers as though he would have twirled them 52 FALLEN FORTUNES. off ; and at some distance stood Jeff, with a pale face and angry eyes. “ I am sorry to say, Edith,’’ said Mrs. Campden, addressing the new-comer, with gravity, “ that my husband has thought proper — if the word proper can he applied to such a proceeding in any wise — to take your daughters with his own to Bleahar^ row sports.” “ Dear me I I am afraid my girls must have worried him very much to induce him to do it,” said Mrs. Dalton, good- naturedly. “ That is just what we did, mamma,” said Jenny, looking up for an instant from her book ; “ it was all our fault, but mine especially.” “ If my husband means to excuse his conduct at the expense of two young ladies ” “ There were three,” observed Mary, quickly; it was I who was most to blame, because I ought to have known you would not have liked it, mamma.” “ I am not addressing myself to you, Mary, at all,” continued her mother, with dignity ; “ be so good as not to interrupt me. I say it was shameful to take advantage of my absence, Mr. Campden, to order the barouche and take these girls on such an abominable expedition. It is natural, Edith, being my guest, that you should endeavour to make light of it.” ‘‘But, indeed, Julia, I don’t think it any serious matter,” answered Mrs. Dalton ; “ and, of course, the girls would be quite safe in your husband’s charge, in case of any annoyance.” “ Well, well ; you are easily satisfied, Edith,” returned the other lady, throwing up her hands ; “ but if you knew what I know about such places — what I can’t help knowing from my position here — the sort of people that attend them ” “ There was LordBiversdale,” observed Mr. Campden, drily. “ Indeed ! I am sorry to hear it. But not his wife, sir.” “I am sure I don’t know whether she was his wife,” said Uncle George, still more drily; “there was a youngish woman wdth him.” “ Do not heighten your disgraceful conduct by disreputable talk, I leg,'' answered Mrs. Campden, icily. “ I am quite sure that there was no lady at Bleabarrow, except those you took there in my barouche.” - “ I really don’t think that the girls can have taken much hurt, dear Julia,” reiterated Mrs. Dalton, the peace-maker. “I don’t know as to hurty Edith; but I suppose even your MAKING THE BEST OF IT 53 good-nature would draw the line somewhere. What would you have said, for instance, if any gentleman of your acquaintance had not only gone to such a place as Bleabarrow, but taken part in the sports ? entered as a competitor with drunken persons ’’ ‘‘ My good lady, no drunken person can run up hills, remon- strated Uncle George ; “you don’t know what you are talking about — you don’t, indeed.” “ Oh, thank you ! I’m sure you are the pink of courtesy ; as polite a husband as you have shown yourself a judicious father. However, I was addressing myself to Edith. I was asking what she would think if you, or any one of your guests here, should have taken it into their head to compete with such ruffians ? ” “Weil, really, I can’t imagine Mr. Campden doing that,” said Mrs. Dalton ; “ and, of course, it would be very in- decorous ” “ The height of indecorum,” interrupted Mrs. Campden, looking round triumphantly ; “ there ; were not these my very words ? You see, Mr. Geoffrey Derwent, that even those who are generally most ready to excuse you, have nothing to urge in extenuation of your conduct. Mrs. Dalton quite agrees with me — that for a person in your position, an inmate of this house, and who has always been treated as one of the family, to compete with common men for gain ” “ I did not compete for gain,” said Geoffrey, indignantly ; “ I gave the money — it was three pounds — to the man that came in second, and only kept the belt.” “ That is, you did not take what you had really need of — you threw away, forsooth, three golden sovereigns, like a young millionaire — and only indulged yourself by mixing with the lowest of the low ” “ It was by my advice, Mrs. Campden,” said one, in cold and measured tones. At the window, close to where Kate was, Mrs. Dalton per- ceived for the first time that Mr. Holt was also standing, half- concealed by the curtain folds. “ I own it was foolish and injudicious, but it was I who proposed that the young gentleman should enter himself for the Guide Race.” “ That had nothing to do with it,” said Jeff, sturdily ; “ I always meant to run, and should have done so whether anyone had proposed it or not.” Of course you would,” continued Mrs. Campden, con- 54 FALLEN FORTUNES. temptuonsly ; mix, as I have said, with the lowest of the low, and to earn their good opinion, was your only motive/^ What ! has Jeff been electioneering like me ? ” cried a lively and genial voice. The speaker, who stood at the open door, had a bright and buoyant look, which, by contrast with the faces around him, seemed to typify good-humour and ignore all angry passion. “Oh, John, how glad I am to see you ! whispered Mrs. Dalton, as she sprang into his arms. “ Oh, papa ! cried Kate, delightedly. Everybody in the room, including, perhaps, even Mrs. Campden herself, who had shot o2‘ all her sharpest arrows, seemed pleased to see John Dalton at that moment. Having kissed his wife, he turned at once to Jenny, to prevent her rising to receive him, and embraced Kate and Tony, and then made his salutations to the rest, like one who is used to be welcomed. A more conventional man would have addressed his hostess first, and his own family afterwards ; but Dalton always behaved as his instincts prompted him, and they fortunately happened to be good. He had not a handsome face, nor even an aristocratic one, yet it was one which attracted every eye. If you had seen him in the pit of a theatre (where, however, you never would have seen him, for he was not a man to patronise the pit), or on the crowded platform of a public meeting, you would have asked straightway, “Who is that man ? ’’ He had passed middle life, and his face- and forehead were deeply lined ; but neither, as you would have said, by thought, nor care, so genial was the smile upon his lip, so lively the sparkle of his eye. His complexion was dark to swarthiness ; his hair, worn much longer than was customary, though he had neither moustache nor whiskers, was black as jet ; yet so far from this producing a sombre effect, his appearance suggested gaiety. If he was not laughing, he always looked about to laugh, not at but vjith you ; his air and manner suggested not only the desire to please, but sympathy, and the readiest comprehension of your tastes and character. He was "not conciliatory, for if you showed antagonism — or even a slowness in reciprocating his advances — the sunshine left his face at once, and he set you down as a fool or a knave. I am bound to say, though sometimes guilty of a grave injustice in these hasty judgments, he was generally right. It was said by morose and ill-natured persons that John Dalton could be as “nasty in temper as anybody; but this was not MAKING THE BEST OF IT 55 true ; lie was hasty, however, and impetuous, and holding a deep-seated conviction that the man who could quarrel with so agreeable a fellow as himself must needs be a scoundrel, he behaved towards him accordingly. This conviction was a dogma of which — though more true than most dogmas — he had not been persuaded in a moment ; a long course of social success had induced it. Dalton had had neither high birth nor much money to recommend him to the notice of the world, yet had possessed enough of both to render a struggle for existence or position unnecessary ; he had not wasted time in setting his feet on the lower rungs of the ladder, but had had them placed there by his father, who had been a man of fashion and a hanger-on of the Court for a quarter of a century before his death. The sayings of Tom Dalton ” had been considerably quoted before the reputation of his son in the same line of business had caused them to pale and fade away from the recollection of Pall Mall. Some old fogies were still found in that cynical neighbourhood who averred that John Dalton was not, after all, so clever a fellow as his father ; but such remarks were justly ascribed to the disposition of persons of a certain age to praise the past at the expense of the present. He did not, indeed, possess the biting satire for which his parent, the friend and rival of Brummell, was distinguished — though if you trod upon his tail ever so slightly, he could give an epigrammatic snap that had marked more than one heedless gentleman for life — but his ordinary talk was bright and vivacious, and he was voted “ good company ’’ wherever he went. By profession he was a barrister, but he had never practised, or given himself the chance of practising. He had never done anything but please himself in all his life, yet in so doing had somehow contrived to please everybody else ; not so much from his kind heart nor his good- nature (though he could boast of both) as from a certain name- less charm of manner, which won over to him both man. and woman. He was not a hero, nor anything at all like it ; but if he had been one, his valet de cJiambre would have been the first to acknowledge it. He was not a prophet (for he little knew what was at this moment awaiting himself) ; but if he had been one, his own people would not have denied him honour. His wife was devoted to him, his children adored him ; and their sentiments had his fullest concurrence. “If people are only nice to me,^^ he once confided to a friend, “ I am the nicest fellow people can meet.^’ Unhappily, there are some people that cannot be nice, however 56 FALLEN FORTUNES, certain may bo tbe reciprocity ; and Mr. John Dalton had just been experiencing that fact during his canvass of the electors of Bampton. “Well, Dalton, may we congratulate you as a British senator, or not ? ’’ was Mr. Campden’s inquiry as he shook hands with his guest. “ You may congratulate me, my dear fellow, as having escaped being the representative of the most rascally constituency in England. It was a very narrow shave, however,’^ added the speaker, briskly ; “ another half-dozen votes would have done it.” Mr. Campden whistled mournfully, and the rest began to express their condolences after their several fashions, when Mrs. Dalton broke promptly in with “ John, dear, there is scarcely time, even as it is, for you to dress for dinner.” “ I know that, my darling, and therefore I am not going to do it,” whispered he. “But Mrs. Campden is so particular.” “I know that, too ; but I’m not going to dress. Pray do not wait for me one minute, ladies and gentlemen,” added he aloud, and then left the room ; not sorry, perhaps, notwithstanding all his presence of mind, that he had got over the declaration of bis failure. “ My husband hopes you will excuse a morning costume to-night, Julia,” said Mrs. Dalton. “ Nothing distresses him so much as coming in late for dinner, or keeping anybody waiting.” “Oh, certainly,” returned Mrs. Campden, with a stately inclination of her head. She w’as pretty well aware how the case stood, and felt satisfied to get an apology out of Mr, Dalton even by proxy. He was indolent, as regarded all physical exer- tion, and despised the small conventionalities on which his hostess set such store. She knew, or thought she knew, that all the members of “ county families” dressed for dinner every night, and was therefore resolved that her own folks should do so. So poor Uncle Greorge — who during his early life had never worn “black things,” as he called them, except on the rarest occasions — had every day to divest himself of his light summer clothing and put on broadcloth. Mr. Holt was always attired with the most scrupulous regard to the fitness of things ; and Dalton, as her guest, ought to have been amenable to her wishes in this respect ; but it was really very difficult, she complained, “to get him to conform to the most ordinary usages of society.” She did not dare to bo MAKING THE BEST OF IT, 57 imperative with him, for he was one of the few people of whom she stood in dread ; and when she had once attempted to what she was pleased to call reason with him, he had overset her with an epigram, which, if she had understood, she would have termed “very conceited/’ ‘‘Madam, nobody minds what is one’s suit so long as one is a Upon the whole, Mrs. Campden had her reasons for not liking Mr. Dalton, but she liked to have him at Riverside, from the popularity which his presence con- ferred upon it. She had more invitations from the county families— who, she had her suspicions, looked down upon her husband for being a nouveau riche — when the Daltons were with them, and a better chance of getting a morning call from Lady Blanche Ealing; nor was it without some gratification that she found John Dalton taking her in to dinner, though his conversa- tion flew over her head, and did not interest her half so much as the proceedings of the servants, or the state of the entrees. On the present occasion he was full of the topic of the election — not that he liked it, but lest he should be supposed to shrink from it as a sore subject— and very amusing in his description of his rival (and conqueror), one Mr. Griggs. This gentleman, who was no great orator, had accused him of “ labouring under the advantage” of being a skilled legal debater, which was certainly a most unjust imputation, as Dalton had but once opened his lips in court in his life, and then only to move for a rule. Griggs had also described Mr. Disraeli as being “ the greatest living statesman of this or any other age.” And Griggs had also told a story on the platform so discursive that it had touched upon almost everything, yet had somehow not arrived at the point. During the progress of it a voice — a somewhat thick and drunken voice, but still one with an evidently Liberal tone — had interrupted this narrative by a conversation with an imaginery friend, one “ Samuel,” supposed to be at the other end of the town-hall, which was crammed with Griggs’ supporters. As the story went on and on, the voice grew more and more dolorous, and at last inquired : “ Samuel, do you like this story ? ” — a question answered by such a peal of laughter, even from his best friends, as to destroy Mr. Griggs’ eloquence for the re- mainder of that evening. It was by no means John Dalton’s habit to monopolise the conversation, and it was only by public request that he now communicated these particulars ; but he had never seemed in higher spirits. Only two persons at table were aware that he FALLEN FORTUNES, 58 was acting a part, nor could one of these have detected it, but for certain exclusive information that he possessed. Mrs. Dalton, on the other hand, knew that her husband was “ not himself,^^ although ignorant of the precise nature of what troubled him. Behind those sprightly tones, the joyous laugh, she detected that Black Care was sitting. The subtle instinct of much love had discovered it to her, else there was nothing to indicate it, except perhaps an unwonted grimness in her hus- band’s humour. For example, Mr. Campden had inquired of him, since he had been last in London, whether town was empty. “]^o, sir ; there are still several toiling millions there, of our own flesh and blood.” The tone of the Platform, the air of the would-be Representa- tive, were admirably assumed : it was evident that the speaker was still contending with Griggs for the suffrages of the Bampton freemen. “ The club, however, had nobody in it, I suppose,” continued the laughing host, ‘‘ except Disnay ? ” “Disnay is out of town.” Oh ! that is impossible, Dalton : he told me himself that he had not left London for a quarter of a century, and then only to visit Brighton. Oh ! Disnay canH be out of town.” “ He is, however, I do assure you — since there are no intra- mural interments — for he is dead ! ” “ Oh ! Mr. Dalton, how shocking ! ” ejaculated Mrs. Camp- den. “ Yes, indeed, madam ; but the gentleman could not help it. If you had known him as well as your husband and myself did, you would feel sure of, that. He had no desire for change — except in one respect. Even when he dined alone on a mutton chop, he would always dress for dinner.” ‘‘And very right, too, I think, Mr. Dalton.” “ Ho doubt, madam ; and I hope he is at this moment reaping the reward of such undeviating propriety.” “Well, I am sorry poor old Disnay is gone,” sighed Mr. Campden. “ We might better have spared a better man.” “I caiTt understand how that can be, George,” observed the hostess, severely. “ When did the poor old fellow go off the hooks ? ” asked Mr. Campden, too affected to notice a reproof which, under other circumstances, would have reduced him to silence. “ Well, his ghost was seen at half-past seven last Thursday.” 59 JOB^S COMFORTER. ‘^His ghost ! echoed several voices. ‘‘Yes, it was seen coming into the club at what had been his usual dinner-hour.” “Oh, what nonsense!” cried Mrs. Campden. “How did they know it ims his ghost ? ” “ Well, they knew it was not himself, because he was in morning costume. Everybody said that Disnay must be dead ; and what everybody says must be true.” I don't think Mrs. Campden “liked that story,” any more than friend Samuel liked that narrative of Mr. Griggs ; but to the rest of the company it seemed droll enough. When the ladies had withdrawn, John Dalton was even still more amusing ; but it is my opinion that the talk of us men “ after dinner” should be as sacred as the conversation in the drawing-room, that takes place during the same period among the fair sex, and which- has never been revealed to mortal man. The talk was mainly between John and his host, for Mr. Holt said little. He was turning over in his mind what he should say presently in the smoking-room, or rather how he should say it, when he and Dalton should be left alone together. CHAPTER VIIL job’s comforter. The question of whether a “ little music ” after dinner is socially a desirable thing or not, has been much debated ; we know what a certain statesman thought of it — but then he was very bitter against every species of occupation that was not “ improving.” Musical people, of course, like to hear the piano going — if the performer understands her art — and there are a number of other persons who like to be thought musical, even if they are not, who hold their fingers up, and whisper “ Hush!” during the performance, and when it is over exclaim, “Oh, tlianlc you;” as if the notes had been five-pound ones, and they had pocketed them all. Hor do the rest of the com- pany much mind it, if the pieces played are not too long. Old gentlemen will go on with their gossip much as usual, and old ladies will keep time with their heads quite cleverly, until they drop asleep, to be presently awakened by the sudden silence. But if there are any present with a hidden care, it is curious how often their secret is disclosed by a few bars of music. They can no longer laugh and talk, but are left the prey of tlio 6o FALLEN FORTUNES, anxiety within, and it comes oat in the expression of their face, and in their very posture. Those earnest lines — “Dear friend, whom, grave or gay, we seek, Heaven-holding shrine, I ope thee, touch thee, hear thee speak, And peace is mine ” — were addressed to his piano, by a true lover of it ; and such persons, even when dejected, may be soothed by its sweet tones ; but that is not the case with those who have no par- f ticular taste for music. It makes their sad thoughts more ‘ gloomy, while it takes away from them the opportunities of disguise. From John Dalton’s face the smile has fallen away like a dropped mask, as he leans an elbow on the mantelpiece, and listens, or seems to listen, in the drawing-room at River- side, to his daughter’s singing. Kitty has a fine voice, which goes a great way up, and comes a long way down, and goes on without stopping for breath almost as long as a camel can go without water. Mr. Holt, who is turning over her leaves, finds that post no sinecure, and being utterly ignorant of rnusic, is never quite sure when she has reached the bottom of the page. Moreover, he cannot keep his eyes from wandering to that statuesque figure by the fireplace, that looks so cast down -even now — when it has not yet heard the worst, nor even half the worst, that must needs be told to-night. Others in the room have their troubles : JefiP, pretending to be immersed in a book, is frowning over the top of it at Mr. Holt, who must, he thinks, be an idiot not to see when a young lady would rather turn over her leaves for herself ; and Tony, only enduring the music as a lesser evil than going to bed, which, as he is well aware, would be the alternative. The windows are open, and he would gladly be in the open air ; but the rain is falling, as it often does at Riverside, so that that avenue of escape is barred. Mr. Campden has fallen asleep, which is foolish of him, as he will be all the more wakeful when the time arrives for his curtain-lecture, when all the wickedness of his afternoon’s expedition will be expatiated upon over again ; but the rest of the company are enthralled by the melody. Jenny is lying on the sofa with her eyes closed, in silent ecstasy, for the voice and instrument are both perfection in their way ; Mrs. Camp- den and Mary give still more demonstrative signs of approval ; and Mrs. Dalton has yet an added bliss as the mother of the singer. Every now and then, however, she steals a glance at her husband, and then thaJ Ipok pf maternal triumph fades awaj^. 6i JOB^S COMFORTER. “John, dear, you must be very tired,” she says, tenderly, when the little concert is over, and the ladies are retreating : “ I hope you will not have more than one cigar to-night.” “ I had some sleep in the train, and feel dreadfully lively,” he answers, brightening up ; “ and I have got some business to discuss with Holt, so I am afraid I shall not be very early ; be sure you do not sit up for me, darling.” “George,” says Mrs. Campden, “you hear that Mr. Dalton and Mr. Holt have private affairs to talk about, so that there is no excuse for you spending half the night in the smoking-room. I am astonished at your permitting Geoffrey to accompany you to such a place at all.” “ I do it as a warning,” answers the host ; “ that he may observe for himself thus early the pernicious effects of tobacco.” “ It is easy to joke upon all subjects ; but you are giving him a taste which is deleterious in itself, and which, in after- life, he will not be in a position to gratify.” “ My dear, he has got it already,” replies Mr. Campden, as he troops off with the other males to the divan. Under the apprehension of punishment. Uncle George would sometimes break into what those who did not know him would deem next kin to rebellion, but which was, in fact, only that state of wildness which prompts a man in for a penny to go in for a pound. There was still a cigar — which habit would enable him to enjoy — between him and the curtain-lecture. The smoking-room at Riverside was a model of what such a place should be ; it was on the upper floor, yet not so high up as to inconvenience those of mature age and impaired digestion who sought it after dinner ; its windows commanded a glorious view of hill and river, when to look out was pleasurable ; and when snugness and warmth were desirable, it possessed every element of comfort. It had lounging-chairs, roclang-chairs, con- versation chairs ; and three sides of the room were lined with books, bound with great elegance, but all of small bulk, so as to be easily held in the hand. It was said by Mr. Campden’s detractors that his upholsterer had supplied these books with the rest of the fittings ; but that was of small consequence, if he had not written them ; they were, at all events, far better chosen than what we find on the bookshelves of most smoking- rooms, which are but too often the “ Sporting Review,” in fifty volumes, and the old “ Gentleman’s Magazine.” There was a sunlight in the ceiling, for use on winter-nights ; but at present 62 P ALLEN' FORTUNES. the apartment was lit by shaded lamps, placed on small round tables. “Well, as these two gentlemen want to talk business, Jeff,’’ said Mr. Campden, as they all lit their cigars, “ you and I will have a turn at billiards.” The billiard-room and the smoking-room communicated with one another by double doors, one of which was of green baize, and through these the host and his young friend at once dis- appeared, leaving Holt and Dalton together. They sat down opposite to one another, at a table by the open window, with their legs stretched out before them, and their coffee by their side ; to all appearance, a very cosey couple. In front of them rose the crags of Bleabarrow, just silvered by the rising moon. For a minute or two nothing broke the silence save the babble of the river, and the dull and almost noiseless click of the balls in the next room ; both men’s faces lay in shadow, but it could be seen that Dalton was gazing on the scene without, while Holt’s elbow leaned on the table, and his eyes were shaded by his hand. ‘ ‘ This Bampton business is a devilish awkward one for me, Holt.” “ Yes, indeed.” “I fear it will have a bad effect with some of the doubtful ones. It was so important to appear to be important just at this crisis. And I spoke so confidently about the matter at the Board.” “You had a right to feel confident.” “ Of course I had. If a score of those fellows had not turned out to be the greatest liars upon earth — Jenkins and Fuller, for example, voted dead against me, though I had their written promise. I have got evidence against Griggs with respect to Fuller. There never was a clearer case of bribery in this world.” “ You are not thinking of a petition, however, are you ? ” “ Well, no ; that would, under the circumstances, be sending good money after bad.” “ If you unseated Griggs, they would have a shot at you, you mean ? ” “ Perhaps ; though I don’t think they would hit me ; but the fact is, I have got no money to petition withP “ The thing stood you in more than you expected, then ? ” “ My good sir, it cost me twice as much — three times. When it came to the last pinch, neither of us cared how deeply we JOB^S COMFORTER. 63 were dipped. It was like being ‘ pricked ’ at wbist. I could not have imagined that there was such an excitement in the thing.’^ “ Many a great family has been crippled for generations, my dear Dalton, at the same game.’^ “ That is no sort of consolation to me.” “Of course not; I only meant that you showed no unusual weakness in putting the pot on ; that you have nothing, in fact, to reproach yourself with.” “ By heavens ! but I have, Holt. It was not ambition, it is true, that sent me down to Bampton, but it was a piece of business of a very speculative kind. I feel that now, when the thing has gone the wrong way, I do assure you. Mind, I don’t blame you, but I ought never to have risked it.” “ Indeed, my dear Dalton, you should not blame me : my ideas, as you know, by no means coincided with yours upon the matter.” A short, sharp laugh broke from Dalton’s lips. “ You are not going to say that you always advised me not to go to Bampton, and prophesied what would come of it, are you ? ” Hot at all, my good friend. But I protest against being considered the cause of your calamity. For my part, I thought lyour election a certainty, and, considering your position and prospects, well worth any reasonable sum. Voila touV^ “ Let’s stick to plain ‘ English,’ ” answered Dalton, sharply, “ which anybody can perceive is your mother-tongue.” Mr. Holt’s pronunciation of the French language was imperfect, and the way he threw his hands out in deprecation of his friend’s remarks was certainly not a good imitation of continental “action;” but the reproof seemed unnecessarily severe. “ It is plain that you are out of temper, Dalton, and therefore unfit to discuss business matters, else I had something serious to say to you.” “ That is, you have some bad news to communicate.” “ I am sorry to say I have.” “Well, spare me it to-night, at all events. I beg your pardon. Holt, if I said anything offensive ; but the fact is I hardly know what I say. When I think of what this infernal election will cost me — close upon four thousand pounds.” “ What ! ” exclaimed the other, in horrified accents. “ Hot a penny less, upon my honour ! I say, when I think of the money I have thus flung away for nothing, and whose money, 64 P ALIEN' E0LTUNE3. I feel as though I could blow my brains out — that is, if 1 have any brains, which, after such a piece of folly, may well be doubted. I felt ashamed, when I came back to-night, to look my own wife and children in the face:’’ “ Yet, you were doing what you thought the best you could for them.” “No, I wasn’t,” answered the other, impetuously. “ I was gambling with the money I had stolen from them, in hopes to get it back again ; just as the shop-boy does who robs his / master’s till ; and then, to make restitution, goes to a betting- office and backs the loser.” “ Nay, nay ; you stole nothing, and have robbed nobody, Dalton ; so much, at least, you may comfort yourself with, under all circumstances. What you have done was, at worst, an error in judgment.” “ An error that will bring down those belonging to me, how- ever,” went on the other, vehemently, “from competence, to what, by contrast, they will feel as poverty. What a dolt, what an idiot, I have been ! To imagine that I was fitted to become a Leviathan of the City ; that I could make a colossal fortune by mere wits and common honesty ! ” “ You have been honest enough, Dalton,” answered the other, drily ; “ and that, as I say, should always be a comfort to you.” “ Comfort ! How can you talk such stuff as that, when I tell you what has happened. You have no ties, no responsibility of your own, or you could not do it. I tell you, when I have paid this Bampton bill, I shall have frittered away, from first to last, three-quarters of my fortune — nay, of my children’s fortune. I don’t know what your bad news is, though I suppose it is more trouble about the Board ; and if I lose my directorship — which, with this fiasco at Bampton, is more than likely — I have only one good horse left out of the whole string — the Lara, I snatched a look at the paper yesterday, and found the shares steadily rising. If that goes on, I may still recoup myself. I am bound to say you did show good judgment there^ Holt.” “ To buy, and then to sell out ; that is what I did.” “ I did not know you had sold out ; but, at all events, you must have made a pretty penny.” “ Dalton,” said the other, gravely, “ my bad news is about the mine.” “The mine ! ” exclaimed the other, starting from his seat, and turning deadly pale. “ The Lara ! You don’t mean to tell me that anything has happened to that f ” JOB'S COMFORTER. 65 ‘‘I got this from my clerk this morning/’ replied Holt, producing one of the little notes, with the contents of which we are already acquainted, from his pocket, “ Of course, things may not be so bad as they seem/' Dalton snatched the slip of paper from his hand, and read aloud: Mem. — Brooks has called as follows: ^ Sell Laras; whole concern a jplant.' " “ Brooks ! Who is Brooks ? ” ‘‘ He is the local agent at St. Jose. The news is but too true, I fear. Brand is very careful." “Good heavens! you talk as if I had but fifteen pounds at stake, instead of fifteen thousand. A plant ? That means a swindle. Did you know it was a swindle, sir ? " “I will not answer such a question, Dalton. I can make every allowance for your excitement, but I will not submit to insult. I believed in the mine as much as you yourself did, up to six hours ago ; and I had at one time almost as much money in it as you had. I always warned you to be content with a good premium, and to realise." Dalton did not appear to hear him, but kept his gaze still fixed upon the memorandum, with its few fatal words. “ Sell Laras. What does the man mean by that ? How can I sell them when I know the scrip is but blank paper ? " “Just so ; and especially when everybody else knows it. But Brooks is Brazil bred, and has a Brazilian standard of com- mercial life. It is too late, of course, to do anything of the sort, even if you would. There have been other telegrams besides this man's. I read in the City article of The Times — it lay within your reach in the drawing-room to-night, and I trembled lest you should have cast your eye upon it — that the shares had become unquotable." “ Fifteen thousand pounds," groaned the unhappy Dalton ; “ and four thousand this week 1 Good heavens I they will have nothing to live upon — my poor, poor darlings 1 " It was strange to see how the loss had stricken him. The lines in his face seemed to have already deepened, and of the gay delonnaire expression that had so characterised his features, there was nothing left. Holt, too, was by no means unmoved. His face had paled, and if there was no pity in his eyes, that may have been through their incapacity of expression ; his tones had pity in them as he replied : “ They have a friend in me, Dalton, please to remember — if I may venture to say as much. What- ever I can do " 66 FALLEN FORTUNES, At this moment there was a knock at the billiard-room door, evidently administered with the butt-end of a cue; and Mr. Campden’s voice was heard bidding them good-night. “I won^t disturb your confab; t)ut Tm off',^^ he said, rather lugubriously, for the time had come when he must needs suffer avenging fires for the transgressions of the day. Dalton waved his hand impatiently; and Holt, understanding the gesture, answered for him, ‘‘ Good-night.’’ He waited a little for his companion’s acknowledgment of his offer of friendly aid, but since the other did not speak, he again addressed him : ‘‘ What I wish to say to you, Dalton, is, that I am a rich man. I got ‘ a pretty penny,’ as you have suggested, by selling out of the Lara, as I wish from my heart that you had done; and my purse was tolerably well-lined before. I beg to offer it — to any reasonable extent — at your disposal ; to assist you, and those dear to you Hay, I mean no offence ” “ There is offence,” exclaimed Dalton, vehemently. “ Every- thing from you is an offence just now. One thing only you can do — this moment — for which I will thank you.” “ Consider it as already done ; what is it ? ” ‘‘ Leave me.” Holt rose at once. You will shake hands, Dalton, at least. Though things have gone wrong with you it is not my fault.” I Dalton neither moved nor spoke ; but his eyes, still fixed upon the crags without, looked fierce and hard. ‘‘ You will think better of this as regards myself to-morrow, old fellow ; I make every allowance for your feeling sore with everybody at this moment, even with a true friend.” He threw a sharp glance round the room — the tables, the mantelpiece, the very book-shelves were all swept by it. Thank goodness, there are no knives about,” he murmured ; then softly closed the door, and left the ruined man to his own thoughts. CHAPTER IX. WORMWOOD. For many minutes after his companion had left the room, John Dalton sat in the same posture, his hands lying idly before him, and his mind busy with the past. He had been a fortu- nate man all his life — so his friends said ; and up to within a year or two he had had no reason to disbelieve them. He had always had enough for his needs, and for the needs of those ho WORMWOOD. 67 loved, and these had not been of a simple kind. He had never been ostentations, but he had mingled with the best society, without any outward sign of inferiority as regarded means, while in other respects he had stood high in it. His company had been always sought for, but not as that of a mere raconteiir and dinner-wit, though he had the name of being such ; he had been invited everywhere on equal terms. In such a circle he had had, of course, no reputation for wealth, but his circum- stances had been more than easy ; he had had no lack of ser- vants and carriages ; and if his home entertainments had not been upon so splendid a scale as that of most of his acquaint- ances, they had been sought after for their intrinsic goodness, as much as for the genial reputation of the host. Mrs. Dalton possessed tact, in addition to much better qualities ; and though caring nothing for such matters herself, had looked after the little dinners in Cardigan Place with her own eyes, because she saw that her husband wished them to be perfect. She had been an excellent manager ” — but by no means in the sense used by the compilers of cheap cookery-books. She had taken care in the, first place that things should be good — the best of their kind ; and after that — but at a great distance — had made provision for economy. Her girls had been brought up sensibly, for the sphere in which they moved, but in a manner which by no means fitted them to endure poverty ; and it was poverty — and worse than poverty, ruin — which their father had brought upon them. Of course he had not thought such a catastrophe possible when he had commenced his speculative career ; he would not even have admitted that he was plunging into specu- lation ; all had looked safe and smooth ; nothing had seemed to be wanting but a little happy audacity to place a man of his ability and connections in the very first rank of “ business men.’^ He had always despised the class so termed, finding them, as he generally did, so much slower, duller and more ignorant — except upon one or two special subjects, such as a man of quick intelligence could master in a week — than him- self ; and his failure would have been galling to him, had there not been a score of other and more cogent reasons for his bitter- ness of spirit. As it was, the injury to his amour ^ro^e was not felt at all, in the agony of his deeper wounds. His pride — and John Dalton, though such “good company,^’ and “hail fellow, well met” with all degrees of men and women, was a very proud man — was, indeed, humbled to the dust ; but that was nothing in comparison with the humiliation he had wrought 68 FALLEN FORTUNES. with those whom — to do him justice — he had ever loved better than himself. What would now become of his wife and children ? was the question which beat importunately at the door of his brain, but which for the moment he was shutting out by reminiscences of the past, hardly less bitter. When and how was it, reflected he, that he had first been tempted to leave his former mode of life and to embark upon this sea of troubles ? As to who had been his tempter, he had no doubt ; but where had he first encountered him ? It was at a dinner to which he had been invited by a bachelor friend — a Guardsman — at Greenwich. The company had been mostly younger than himself, as was often the case, for his wit and animal spirits recommended him to the young ; and the only one present who was his senior, or rather had appeared to be so, had been Richard Holt. This man, it was evident, was not of the same class as the rest ; and beyond a passing thought of how the deuce he got there, Dalton would probably not have troubled himself about him, but for a circumstance that took place after dinner. One of the guests, a young man of title, had drunk rather too freely, and over an argument, in which he was clearly in the wrong, with Holt, used some contemptuous expression, reflecting upon his calling as a stockbroker. Holt behaved very well, putting much apparent restraint upon himself, for his host’s sake ; and Dalton, always generous and impulsive, had taken up the cudgels for him, and silenced his assailant. You have made a friend of the best fellow in England to help you out of a scrape,” whispered his entertainer, when the party was breaking up ; but as Dalton was not in the habit of getting into the sort of difficulties to which he knew the other alluded, he saw no reason to congratulate himself upon the alliance. However, during their drive home on the drag, it so happened that he found himself next the stranger, and a good deal of conversation took place between them. The topic, which Dalton himself had introduced in order to put the other at his ease, was commercial affairs, with which Holt showed himself thoroughly acquainted. He spoke of his own misfor- tune in having been all his life connected with them, which had produced his wealth, without the power of enjoying it in the way he desired. “ I find myself cut off from society, except that of such young gentlemen as these,” said he, “ who make use of my services without permitting me to pretend to their friendship.” He spoke with a certain mixture of pride and WORMIVOOD. 69 humility which prepossessed the other in his favour ; while his references to City matters inflamed Dalton’s ambition with that idea of ‘‘ growing rich beyond the dreams of avarice ” from which much better balanced minds are not altogether free. “ With your manners and your connections, Mr. Dalton, success would indeed be easy,” Holt had answered when sounded on this point : such an address as yours, if you will permit me to say so ” (a favourite expression of his new friend’s), “would fetch a very high price east of Temple Bar; we are cunning enough, but without the tact that at once persuades and conquers.” The flattery was coarse, but, administered after a Greenwich dinner, on the top of a drag, it was not found fault with ; their acquaintance throve apace, and before they reached town, Dalton discovered — he never quite knew how — that a certain connection already existed between himself and his com- panion, which at once established confidential relations between them. This bond of union was that Philip Astor, Dalton’s half- brother, of whom we have already spoken. That Astor was not a legitimate son of Dalton’s father was now incontestable, for it had been so settled by the law ; but it was admitted even by the legitimate branch of the family that his case had been a hard one. He was by many years John Dalton’s senior, and until his father’s second marriage — which was in fact his first — had sup- posed himself to be the son and heir. Not till he was almost of age had he been made aware of his true position, and the dis- covery had acted fatally upon his character. He had become reckless and improvident ; and though a considerable pecuniary provision had been made for him, he had squandered all his means long before his father’s death, which had not taken place till John had himself arrived at man’s estate. Then it was that Philip brought his lawsuit, and lost it ; but so far from feeling bitter against his left-handed kinsman, John had offered to assist him from his own purse. The two brothers had met, and though the interview had been a stormy one, they had parted with less of ill-feeling than might have been expected. The one could only proffer as a gift what the other would only accept as a right ; and so John’s generosity came to nothing. But he had always entertained a kindly feeling for poor Philip, and had contrived, unknown to him, to procure him the means of liveli- hood as a merchant’s clerk. This situation, however, upon dis- covering to whom he was indebted for it, Astor had thrown up, and down to that very night, John knew not what had become 70 FALLEN FORTUNES, of liim. To Lis great surprise, ITolt now informed him that Philip had been employed in his office for some years. Such had been the first introduction of the man of business to the man of fashion, and it had soon ripened into intimacy. As to Philip, he had doggedly refused, according to his present employer’s account, to hold any intercourse with his half- brother ; so no more was said about that matter. But Dalton and Holt did a good deal of business together — or rather in concert. Whether the latter had inoculated the former with the love of speculation, or whether he originally had it in his blood, is doubtful, though Dalton was now ready to put all the blame upon his late ally ; it is more probable that Dalton was eager, and that the other did but stimulate his wishes. But they had gone into a good many “ likely things ” together — doubt- less by Holt’s advice — and for a little time matters had gone very well with them. In return for his assistance in this way, Holt had suggested, rather than stipulated, that his new friend should introduce him, upon as equal terms as might be, into society ; and this Dalton had done. It was no small proof of his own social influence that he had brought Mr. Richard Holt into more than one exclusive circle, and kept him there, under what were certainly disadvantageous circumstances. The Campdens, though there was nothing absolutely vulgar about them, had nothing to boast of in the way of birth or breed- ing, nor was their position in the county so assured that they could afford to have a man like Holt living with them almost en famille ; he would never have found himself at Riverside but for his friend’s good offices. In more than one case Dalton had had cause to lament the fate which had thus made him a sort of Siamese twin of the prosperous stockbroker ; for the slights that had been inflicted upon the latter, or which he had more often brought upon himself, he had in some degree shared ; but his bitterest regret was that he had permitted this man to gain a footing in his own family. The thing had been unavoidable if he was to retain his alliance, but it had been done against the grain — so grudgingly that the other had scarcely thanked him for it— and it had turned out even worse than he had anticipated. Mrs. Dalton was a woman always ready to wel- come her husband’s friends, and make them, so far as was possible, her own. His social success owed more to her tact in this respect than perhaps he would have been ready to allow ; but she could not welcome this man, who was not his friend, but only his business ally. She had disliked him before she saw him. tVORMWOOD, n as tlie person wlio liad seduced her husband from his former pursuits — if sucb they could be called ; had persuaded him to exchange his role as a charmer of society, but one Tvho, never- theless, spent much of his time at home, for what she would have called in another a sordid ambition. She did not want him to get more money, and certainly not by associating with com- panions such as this man, whose manners and appearance were to her mind, though she did not speak her mind, by no means the worst of him. Kate did not like him, it was plain, and still less Jenny — Jenny, the invalid, who, though so fragile of frame, had so keen an eye and sharp a tongue ; and yet, with all these members of his family, as it seemed to Dalton, this fellow had afected a certain intimacy. When he had talked just now of ‘‘ those dear to him,” and had offered to be their friend, as though it were a favour on his part, he had felt inclined to knock him down, And yet, in truth, it had become necessary that somebody should befriend them. He himself was a hopelessly ruined man, while Holt was, by his own confession, very rich. He could not say that he had become so at his expense ; nor, indeed, had his own losses, so far as he knew, been of the least advantage to the other ; but, somehow, he felt as though he had been the man’s cat’s-paw. As to the Lara^ the speculation had been brought under his notice — like all the rest — by Holt, but in a more private sort of way ; it was a pet investment of Holt’s own, and at one time they had possessed nearly the whole mine between them. Then, as the shares rose, Holt had, it seemed, sold out — as, indeed, he had advised Dalton to do — while he had held on ; and the end was that the one had come out of it all safe, and with a large sum in pocket, while the other had lost his all, and more than his all ; for Dalton had not only lost his own money, but that of his wife, which, by her own wish, and from her unbounded confidence in him, had not been settled upon her at their mar- riage. His shame and horror were so great, that for the moment he had not dared to look that part of the matter in the face, but had forced his thoughts, as we have said, to tevel back over that fatal part of his life’s journey on which Richard Holt had become his companion. He had felt of late months that companionship growing more and more distasteful to him, but at the same time more indispensable ; he distrusted him in his heart, though, as reason told him, without any justification for such a feeling. He had begun to hate the man because he thought he saw he had had the audacity to look even beyond his friendship ; and though FALLEN FORTUNES, Tip to that night he had been able to regard his pretensions with grim contempt, he could not do so now. It was that reflection which had, in fact, made him so rude to Holt at parting an hour or so ago — for so long had he been chewing the bitter cud of memory — and which now made the man so loathsome to him. And yet his mind preferred to dwell upon him, and his relations with himself, rather than upon his own ruin, and the effects that must necessarily result from it. For what was underlying all his thoughts, and tincturing their sadness with a bitterness far beyond that of the waters of death, was the consciousness that when he left that room it must needs be to seek the presence of his wife, to tell that dear one of the blow which had hurled her and hers from wealth to poverty, and that it was his own hand that had inflicted it. How cold and cruel, in her stately beauty, Nature looked that night ! how unmoved by the agony of his soul ! How peacefully slept the moonbeams on the crags, as though to the lullaby of the river’s song ! If he shot himself, or cut his throat, she would still smile on. If he shot himself ! The thought recurred to him with a terrible impetuosity, before which all mere sen- timental reflections vanished. Would it not be better to put a bullet through his brain, and have done with life, the sweets of which had been squeezed out, and nothing left but the bitter rind ? He could do no good to his wife and children by living on, for he could never be their bread-winner. How could he — he who had done nothing from his youth up but fare of the best, without toil of brain or muscle — he who had paid nothing but a light jest or two for his place in the world — hope to support these helpless ones, being himself so helpless ? Nay, he would be a burden on them, rather, for a woman and children might find shelter which could not for very shame be accepted by a man like him. In all respects it would be better for them that he should die. As for the sin of it, and his own punishment here- after, it did not at that moment enter into his calculations ; if he thought of himself at all, it was to reflect that if he killed himself then and there, he should be spared the interview which was awaiting him below-stairs. He threw a glance round the room, just as Holt had done upon leaving it ; but it fell upon nothing in the way of weapon, unless a gilt paper-knife, with a tiger’s tooth for handle, could be called so, with which he re- membered, with strange distinctness, cutting “ Blackwood ” the last time he had visited Biverside in the spring. The magazine had contained some forecast of the coming general election, and IVORMWOOD. 73 amongst other places had mentioned Bampton as wavering in its allegiance, and likely, though after many years of fidelity, to return a Liberal candidate. The vacancy in the borough had taken place through the death of its representative — the con- stituencies in general not having as yet been appealed to ; but the apprehension expressed by the reviewer had proved ground- less, to his cost. How Campden and himself had smiled over it at the time, and how confident he had been of the contrary issue — for Bampton had even then been in his eye, although vaguely — and how valueless and utterly uninteresting the whole subject had now become ! If he had been a Member of Parliament even, instead of a rejected candidate, it would have availed him nothing, but only have made his fall the greater. It was not probable, thought he grimly, that any difierence would be made in the manner of his reception in the next world, from his having been chos,en by the electors of Bampton or not. A tiger’s tooth ! It was not by a bite, as he had read, that the tiger killed his man, but by one blow of his mighty paw. That must be an easy death to die ; but the method was exceptional, and not within his reach. He took from his pocket a little pen- knife ; its handle was of tortoiseshell, inlaid with silver, and upon it was a date engraved. Jenny had given it to him upon his birthday, years ago, when she was quite a child, ailing in health, indeed, but before her disease had declared itself. “ It will not cut our love, dear papa,” she had said, alluding to the proverb and her present. His hand trembled for a moment, and he felt that sting in his eyelids which is the precursor of the bitterest tears, but no tears fell. Since he loved her so much, it was the more necessary that he should do the best he could to smooth her life path ; and the best he could do was to die. That he honestly believed, for he was probably unaware how forcibly his own personal misery was impelling him to such a course. The blade was as keen as a razor, and had a sharp point. If he had been a doctor, or had had any scientific knowledge — whereas, thought he, bitterly, ‘‘ I know nothing ” — he would have known exactly where to strike, and all would have been over in a moment. He had read about “the jugular vein,” but he could not work up his mind to cut his throat ; he was not afraid to do so, but the idea shocked his fastidiousness. “ What a fuss that w^oman would make about her carpet ! ” was a reflection, too, that characteristically crossed his mind. He remembered to have seen a surgeon of his acquaintance indicate the exact spot in the left side where even the thrust of a needle would cause 74 FALLEN FORTUNES. instant death ; if that was the case, surely a knife like this — ^ — - Hero a circumstance occurred which disturbed him beyond measure. He heard the door behind him open and shut, and felt that ho was not alone. Was it possible that his wife, alarmed by his prolonged absence, and knowing that the others had long since retired, had come up to look after him ? His face grew damp, and, the night air blowing cold upon it, he began to shiver ; his hand became so unsteady that he could scarcely hold the knife, with which he now pretended to be paring his nails. “ I hope I have not disturbed you, Mr. Dalton,’’ said a cheer- ful voice. “ Thank heaven ! it is only Derwent,” muttered the wretched man. “ I came up for a book that I had forgotten,” continued the young fellow, “ and had no idea that you. were still here. Your cigar is out; shall I give you a light ? ” “Ho, Jetf, thank you.” There was something of sadness in the tone, that struck the lad’s keen ear. “ Can I do nothing for you ? You are not ill, I hope ? ” “ Hot I, my boy ; only a little down in the mouth, from being the rejected of Bampton. If you had had a vote, you would have plumped for me, would you not ? ” “ Indeed, Mr. Dalton, I would plump for you for every- thing ! ” The genuineness of the young fellow’s speech, and its sim- plicity, were such as a man like Dalton could not fail to feel, even in his present condition. “ I have no doubt of that, JeflP,” he replied, kindly. “ You and I have always been good friends.” “But the goodness was on your side,” answered the boy, gravely. “It is to no one’s advantage in this house to be a friend of mine. It is everybody’s advantage to be a friend of yours.” Dalton laughed so mockingly, that the other paused in wonder, and when he continued, his voice had a still more earnest gravity. It was evident that he saw something was very wrong. “ I am so powerless, Mr. Dalton ; but if the most I can do can be of the least service to you or yours, you will not forget to make use of me. I have thews and sinews — but that is all, I am afraid.” woi^Mwoon. IS ‘^And wind, Jeff— excellent wind, i£ what Tony was telling me to-night was true. You got into trouble about it, I hear, but you won the Guide Hace.’’ “ Yes ; I came in first, though it was almost by a fluke. If I had not gone at the brook, I should have been beaten. Here is the belt.’' And the lad exhibited that token of his prowess — which vanity had caused him to buckle round his waist, a broad leathern strap with a silver clasp — with conscious pride. “ And did you get a prize in the wrestling-ring also ? Were you Hercules as well as Hippomenes ? ” “ Ho ; Mr. Holt said he thought that it would be considered ‘ unseemly ’ — he' meant, I suppose, caddish — and yet I almost thought that Tony would have persuaded him to try a fall himself. He will do anything for Tony, or for the girls, or for Mrs. Dalton — that I will say for him.” What a pity he did not wrestle,” observed Dalton, . grimly. They might have given him a cropper, some of them, big as he is.” ‘‘ Yes, indeed ; but he laughed it off by telling Tony that he couldn’t do it because his life was not insured ; though of course he never meant to. I suppose I must thank him for sticking up for me to-night, and saying that it was by his advice I entered for the Guide Race : though it was not true ; and he only said it to please Kitty.” At any other time that suggestion would have excited Dalton’s wrath; but he had not heard the boy’s last words. A sentence that had just before dropped ^rom his lips quite accidentally was ringing in his ears, and made him unconscious of the rest. “Well, well, Jeff', we must not talk any more to-night, or Mrs. Campden will be accusing me of teaching you more bad habits — sitting up till the small hours for one thing. Good- night, my lad.” “ Good-night, Mr. Dalton.” As the boy withdrew, he noticed how his companion’s face fell forward on his hands, and felt that he was in sore trouble. It was so strange to see the man, whom he had always known so light and gay, in this sad case, that he was loath to leave him, even at his own request. Yet he felt he had no choice. He could not cure his grief, whatever I it might be, or even soothe it, being, as he had said, so powerless. ; He never knew that — powerless though he was — his entrance j into that room had saved a fellow-creature from self-destruction. The words he had quoted from Holt’s mouth, “ Because my life is not insured,” had reminded Dalton, who in his agony of regret 76 FALLEN FORTUNES, and shame had clean forgotten the fact, that his own life was insured, and that the policy would be made void by his suicide. There was no escape left for him in his wretchedness, even in death itself. CHAPTER X. A TRUE WIFE. When we poor sons of men are miserable, we are prone to think that we have reached a depth of distress beyond that which the experience of others has sounded, and approaching the very limit — and even exceeding it, since in despair we often seek refuge in the grave — which human nature can bear. The gen- tleman who has just been black-balled at the long-desired club ; the lady to whom the Lord Chamberlain has refused permission to present herself at Her Majesty’s Drawing-room ; the business man who finds himself unable to meet his engagements on the morrow; the wife who has just discovered the unfaithfulness of her husband : all these, although suffering such different degrees of woe, imagine that not in the condemned cell of Newgate itself is to be found a mortal so utterly forsaken by the gods as they. It is the poor privilege of the wretched to exaggerate their ca- lamities, and perhaps John Dalton indulged himself in this way like the rest. Yet it is difficult to imagine that that autumn morning dawned upon a human creature more wholly miserable than he, as he crept down the thick carpeted stairs and along the painted corridors of Riverside to his own room. Everything about him breathed of wealth and luxury, while every thought within him pictured ruin. Hour after hour he sat alone, till the cold grey light had broken over the crags of Bleabarrow, but not one ray of comfort had fallen upon him ; he had racked his brain for a single gleam of hope wherewith to mitigate the gloom of that confession which he must now needs make to his unsus- pecting wife, and had found none. He had prayed, and his prayer had come back to him, as it seemed, rejected. There are agonies in which the impatient soul demands some visible sign of God’s good providence, and being denied it, it dares to question His existence. There was no help for him, he cried in his exceeding bitterness, in God or man. As for himself, he was ready to own that he did not deserve such help ; and if he had stood alone in the world, he would have taken his punish- ment, doggedly perhaps, but without repining or complaint. He was no coward, though in that dark hour (as generally happens) A TRUE WIFE. 11 his very vivacity of spirits, quickened by long years of prosperity and success, showed his seamy side, and made him proportionably prone to despondency; but his apprehensions for the fate of those he loved, and whom his folly had dragged down to the dust, were overwhelming. His delicate and devoted wife ; Kitty, with her beauty and expectations ; Jenny, prostrated by her illness, and for whom until now everything had been done to prevent even the winds of heaven from visiting her too roughly ; little Tony, with his education but just begun, and looking forward to being an Eton boy : each of these pictures, to gaze on which had hitherto been the pride of his life, was now become to him terrible to look upon ; and yet, alas ! they were liviog realities. The prospect was not to be evaded or shut out ; not one of these beloved portraits could he turn with its face to the wall. As he drew near his dressing-room, his step fell more lightly on the carpet, and he turned the handle of the door very softly, lest his wife, who slept in the next apartment, should be disturbed. His intention was on no account to waken her, but to suffer her to sleep on until near her usual hour for being called, when he must needs tell her his ill news. It would be the last sleep free from care that she would ever have ; and as for him, there was small chance of his losing consciousness of his woes even for a moment. To his surprise, however, on entering his dressing- room, the window-curtains of which were of course closed, ex- cluding the dawn, he perceived a strong light under the door that communicated with the next apartment. At the same moment he heard his name called in those dear accents, the sound of which had hitherto been ever as music to his ear. Kow, they only evoked a shudder. Without trusting himself to answer, for he was sensible that he had lost control over his own tones, he summoned up a smile, and opened the door. To his great distress, he found Mrs. Dalton had not retired to her couch, but was sitting in her dressing-gown, awaiting him — as she had doubtless been for the last six hours. “ My dearest love, how can you be so imprudent ? ” He was careful for her health at all times, and there was an especial reason for her taking care of it for the next few months to come ; for the moment, he only thought of that, and not of the sad burden of woe which he had come to share with her. “I could not sleep, dear,’' said she, tenderly, “until I had seen you, and heard from your own lips what it was that has troubled you so.” I 78 FALLEN FORTUNES, Here, as it might seem, was his opportunity of gently breaking to her his terrible news ; but no sooner did it present itself than his courage failed him. What hurry was there, after all, to introduee this innocent and unsuspicious creature to irreparable calamity ? He had made up his mind, indeed, to do so that very morning, but it now struck him that there was no need for such great haste as that. The blow, indeed, must fall ; but it would not do so immediately, and it was his duty to prepare her for it by gradations. Any sudden shock to one in her delicate situation might have a serious effect, and was to be avoided. Though death was sweet to himself, because of the evil that he had wrought her, he shrank from contemplating it — miserable though her life might be — in connection with her. “ My darling, you alarm me beyond measure : to lose your natural rest is to do yourself, just now, a serious injury. My news, whatever it be, might surely wait for the morning.’’ “ I must know what it is, John — I must, indeed,” pleaded she ; and she rose from her chair, and placing a thin white hand upon each of his shoulders, looked straight into his eyes. “ Do not tell me it was the election only. Have I known and loved you all these years not to know better than that ? Thank God, you are well ! — in health at least — and the children are well. If I had not had them under my own eye to-night, I should have thought, when I looked upon your face, that there was something amiss with them. What else, John, can have hap- pened to so change you ? ” To change me, Edith ? I flattered myself my manner was much the same to-night as usual. But it is quite true that something has happened to trouble me.” “ Then it is a mere money trouble ? ” “ It ^ a money trouble, but a very severe one.” “ Thank God, thank God, it is no worse ! ” said Mrs. Dalton, fervently, “ That nothing of blame or shame could be laid to your door, I knew ; but I was apprehensive — I always have been — that your connection with Mr. Holt might lead you into some painful position. Your reference to him in your letter of this morning made me uneasy. None of us like the man ; we are only women, moved by instinct, and not by reason; but since such a feeling was common to all three of us — << There seemed something in it — eh, my darling ?” observed Dalton, finishing the uncompleted sentence. He found his task much easier now than he could have hoped for. What his wife had said was strangely consonant with his own recent thoughts. A TRUE WIFE. 79 He knew tkat Holfc was no favourite with her or with the girls, but he had no idea that they entertained any such suspicions of him — unreasonable, as she herself had said, yet suspicions which he shared. In her case, however, he did not wish that they should be corroborated ; it was better she should feel he had been ruined by his own folly than another’s fraud, even if there had been fraud. I know nothing against Holt’s honesty, my dear,” continued he, gravely. ‘‘ But I did not wish you to speak to him about the election, lest you should have heard something from his lips which should be told only by my own. It was most essential to me, as I thought when I wrote that note, to succeed at Bamp- ton ; my credit — by which I mean my commercial importance — would have been seriously affected by the result; but now all that has sunk into insignificance in the presence of an over- whelming calamity.” “You have lost your fortune, John ! ” Her tone was grave, but very soft and gentle, and there was a smile of content upon her face, very strange to see at such a time. “ Yes, dear, I have — God help me ! — every farthing of it.” “ But you have not lost us, John ; I am still with you ” — her voice trembled a little, but she went bravely on — “ and the dear children.” “Yes, darling; it is on your account and theirs — not on mine, God knows — that this has unnerved me ; that the burden seems more heavy than I can bear.” “ Then let us help you to carry it ; what is heavy for one is light for four. The girls are old enough, and wise enough, to bear their part. What is the loss of money when love is left ! ” “ Edith, Edith ! you know not what you say ; you have not pictured to yourself what ruin is. Did you not hear me say that I have lost my all ? — and, Heaven forgive me, your all also !” She sank down in a chair, for her limbs had failed her, still retaining his hand within her own. “ I did not understand,” said she, in a faint voice; “ God help us ! ” “Even she, devoted as she is, cannot image to herself,” thought he, “ my fatal folly, and forgive it ; such a baseness as I have committed is inconceivable to her innocent and unselfish nature ; I am condemned by the sole judge to whom I could have looked for mercy.” How wrong he was, how little he knew her, notwithstanding that he loved her so ! When we stand before the judgment-seat of Heaven itself we may know 8o FALLEN FORTUNES, — I trust we shall — a diviner pity, but here on earth there is no such unstinting fount of pity and forgiveness as the heart of woman. “ Pardon me, dear John,” were her first broken words ; ‘‘ the weakness has passed now, and 1 feel as befits your wife. Yes; and I would not change my place to-night, this moment,” taking his head within her hands, for he had cast himself upon his knees at her feet, and hidden his face in an agony of remorse and shame, “ with that of any woman in the world, no matter how rich — how prosperous ! And I love you, John, better in your poverty and your ruin than I ever loved you yet; and I will be true to you, and be your help — as help may be in me — and so will Kate and Jenny.” Then she broke down. She could have borne all herself, but the thought of her children, and what they would have to bear, was too much for her mother’s heart. Husband and wife mingled their tears together — bitter tears of self-con- demnation in the one case, and of tenderness and pity in the other. “ Hush!” said she — for a man’s grief who has not shed a tear since childhood is alw^ays loud — “Jenny is a light sleeper,” and she pointed to the door that led into the room of the invalid. “ How tell me all about it, John ; I can bear to hear it much better than I can bear to wait. I know the worst ; how can it hurt me, then, to know the shape in which it has come ! Hay, it is idle to talk of rest, of sleep ; I pray you tell me.” So, sitting hand in hand, John TJalton told her all, omitting only his suspicions concerning Holt. She listened attentively — asking a question calmly here and there, when she required some matter of business to be ex- plained — to the bitter end. “ Then if the bad news about the mine should not be con- firmed,” said she, “our affairs would not be so desperate?” “ They are already confirmed, Edith ; do not, I beseech yon, indulge in any hope on that head. The mine was a swindle from the beginning.” “ Yet Mr. Holt persuaded you to invest in it ? ” “ Certainly; he thought it a genuine thing and a very good thing ; he purchased largely in it himself ; that I know of my own personal knowledge.” “ And yet he sold them afterwards ?” “ Yes ; but at a high premium. If I had followed his advice, I am bound to say I should have made money by it. I had A TRUE WIFE, Si taken — I don’t know why, unless it was from what he had originally told me — a fatal fancy to the investment.” “ And to whom did Mr. Holt sell his shares ? ” I don’t know ; it was doubtless done through a broker, and he may not even know himself. Why do you ask that question ? ” “ From ignorance, my dear. I understand no more of such matters than our little Tony.” “ Poor boy!” sighed Dalton, despondently. The mention of his son brought keenly to his mind that sense of ruin which this discussion about the Lara had for the moment diverted from it. “ Well, darling, we must look about us,” said Mrs. Dalton, cheerfully, “and plan what is to be done. A man of your talents, who has got so many influential friends, need not, surely, long remain without any lucrative employment.” John Dalton had had some experience of place-hunting, though not upon his own account, and he knew that in that description of sport the “ blank days” were many, and that those even of the most skilful huntsmen who “find” at all are few. The humiliation of beggary would be terrible to him, and how often would he have to beg and be refused. “ There are the Skiptons, you know, darling ; they have always been such friends of ours, and Sir William, who is in the Ministry, would sure exert himself for your sake.” Her husband shook his head, as though he did not entertain much hope of assistance from that quarter. Sir William, al- though he was the Attorney-general, was a dull man, and Dalton had more than once expressed his opinion to that effect — of course in the politest possible manner — when they chanced to differ. Their families were very intimate, but the men them- selves were as opposite as the poles, and had no very high opinion of one another. Twenty-four hours ago, it would have seemed as impossible to Dalton to have asked a favour of Sir William Skipton as to pick his pocket ; he would not have done it had he been starving. But the question now was whether he could bring himself to do it, to provide bread for his children. “ Then there is Cousin Tatham, John ; I am sure he has always expressed the highest admiration of your talents.” Poor Dalton winced at this. Lord Tatham, a distant relative of his wife, was a venerable nobleman who enjoyed a certain in- significant appointment about the Court ; and though, from his appearance of wisdom and gravity, he might have sat upon the G 82 FALLEN FORTUNES. woolsack to represent the Lord Chancellor in his absence, he was, in fact, a. nonentity ; a mere stuffed personage with a bag- wig and sword. He was, it is true, always talking about his patronage, but it was only the appointment of the royal footmen that lay within his gift. While Mrs. Dalton thus imagined to herself that the Court and the Ministry would both be interested in her husband’s favour, he himself was rapidly reviewing in his own mind all file really possible chances that were open to him, and they seemed few indeed. He had friends, it is true, upon whom he could rely for sympathy, and even, perhaps, for material aid — though in a shape which, even now, he could not conceive him- self capable of accepting — but they were men of his own style and character, genial, agreeable fellow^s, and who had, with few exceptions, never sought to burden themselves with the duties, and therefore the privileges, of office. He felt that they could have nothing to give him in the way of employment. He had a slight acquaintance, indeed, with a Minister or two beside Sir William, but he had always attached himself to the other faction in politics, and it was unreasonable to expect that his late attempt upon the virtue of the borough of Bampton, though it had failed, would recommend him to their good offices. ISTothing very practical, indeed, came out of the long discus- sion that took place that weary morning, concerning future ways and means, between husband and wife, yet Dalton found an unexpected solace in it. He had never before taken Edith into his confidence upon the state of his affairs ; and her sagacity and common-sense, where- ever her knowledge of the grounds upon which to build was equal to his own, surprised him. We do not give the angels such credit for aptitude for worldly wisdom as perhaps they deserve. Mrs. Dalton’s views were doubtless sanguine ; she had much more confidence, not only in her husband’s friends, but in his own abilities, than he had himself ; but if sympathy is not help, it is next akin to it, and hope begets hope ; and before their talk was over, Dalton was certainly in a less despairing mood than he had been some hours ago. Though his wife had suggested much, she had stipulated but one thing — namely, that their misfortune should, if possible, be kept from the knowledge of their children until they return to their own home. “ Let them enjoy themselves for the few days that remain of our visit here, John ; it will be easier to break this news when we are all together under our own roof j nor do MR. HOLTS ADVICE. S3 I wish, unless you see any good reason to the contrary, that our host and hostess should learn what has befallen us, while wC remain their guests.^^ It was out of the true mother’s heart, we may be sure, that the first advice was given ; but of the source of the second I am not so certain — perhaps it was a little womanly pride. Her connection with the Oampdens had always been on equal terms, and she shrank, though the change must needs come sooner or later, from its being placed on another footing. Or, perhaps, she thought that Julia would not prove the most sympathising of friends at such a crisis. To both conditions Dalton would have willingly assented, but he feigned objections in order to gain compliance, by giving way, with a stipulation of his own — namely, that Edith should retire to rest for the little time that now intervened before her usual hour for being called. To this she was with difficulty per- suaded, and presently, worn out with watching, and weariness, and woe, she fell asleep. As the daylight struggled in, and lit up her delicate wan face, as it lay beside his own, a new fear crept into’ his aching heart, and mingled with its other tenants. Suppose that his faithful and beloved companion should perish in her coming trial, and leave him alone in the dark days to come ! The thought was agonising, but only in consonance with those which already beset him. That worst, at which, when we have arrived, it is said that “ things must mend,” he felt was limitless in evil, There are times when poor humanity rejects the smooth pro-! phecy, “Heaven will never desert me so utterly as to suffer this to happen or that but, with sickening fear, expects the utmost^ cruelty of Fate. CHAPTER XL MR. holt’s advice. When we lose one very dear to us, by death, the agony culmi- nates at once ; there is nothing more dreadful to be felt than it — it will break out again and again with intense severity, but always with a less violence than in the black hour of bereave- ment, and a day comes, sooner or later, when our friends — the best of whom do not know us half so well as we know ourselves — reraark to one another : “ He has got over it.” The effect of a great stroke of ill-luck — of a very heavy pecuniary misfortune, for example — is generally quite different. The blow prostrates PALLElSr FORTUNESs % us for the moment, but almost directly afterwards vitality asserts itself ; we are revived by a host of hopes, each insigni- ficant in itself, and which, since they cannot coalesce, have really no practical value ; but they inspire courage. A drowning man is said to catch at a straw, and ten thousand straws floating about him would doubtless proportionably excite his hope, though they would be of no more help than one, unless they could be formed into a straw Yich, And thus ifc was with John Dalton, when he woke — for “merciful nature ’’ had given him nearly an hour’s forgetfulness — to find himself, for the first time, a ruined man. We say “for the first time,” because many respectable persons are ruined many times, and to them the picture I have painted of this man’s wretchedness will doubtless have appeared too highly coloured. Nay, they will assert, “Not even at first did we give way in such a miserable manner.” Very likely, my friends. Are you quite sure that you really lost anything ? Had you anything of your own to begin with ? And did you not go into that particular line of business which proved so unfortunate with this catastrophe already more or less before your eyes ? Now, John Dalton could scarcely have been more astonished at what had befallen him had he suddenly found himself changed into a bird or a beast. He had left his own line in life, and entered into “ commercial enterprise,” it is true, with no higher aim than his own butler, who would doubtless now take a public-house with the money saved in his own service, namely, to “ better himself ; ” but he had had no idea of risking his all upon the result ; and the shock — now he found that he had lost his all — was by consequence the greater. Still, as we have said, the clouds seemed to lift a little that morning. He was able to put in a cheerful appearance at the breakfast-table ; nor throughout that day, except that he at times appeared pre-occupied, could you have guessed the load of care he bore upon his shoulders. The Fall Mall confirmed the news of the previous morning, however — another commercial collapse, though, fortunately, it was understood to afiect only a limited circle, had taken place in the case of the Lara mine ; it had been egregiously puffed, but had now gone the way of most mines ; the expert sent out by the committee of English share- holders had “ cabled ” news that the speculation was next door to worthless ; that the proceeds of the mine would not even pay for its working. The shares, which but the other day had been at a high premium, were now quotable. The fifteen thousand pounds which Dalton had invested in it, and which represented Mr. HOLT'S Advice. Ss about half the value of the English shares, were irrevocably gone. Convinced of this, he did not lose a post in privately com- municating with suchf' friends as he thought might have the power to serve him. He was frank with them, and yet concise. “ I have lost all my money, and urgently require some employ- ment — the more lucrative the better,*’ was the burden of each note. After despatching them he felt relieved, as a man will do who has done his best to help himself. “ From so large a principal of good-will,’’ thought he, ‘‘ I shall surely get a sufficient return of interest for my needs.” Nor did he in this calculation over-estimate his popularity ; almost everybody liked John Dalton, and would have done him a good turn if they could. At dinner he was exceedingly amusing, and excited Mrs. Campden’s indignation by a spirited defence of the Indian system of suttee. The chief objection to death, in the case of comparatively young persons, he argued, was that no dear ones have preceded them into the dark and silent land ; whereas the old may flatter themselves with the idea of rejoining their kins- folk and acquaintances. Thus, although it might be a little selfish in His Highness, nothing was more natural than that an Indian prince, finding himself on the point of departure from this world, should require his favourite wives and servants to accompany him upon his journey to the other, where it was only too probable that he would not find persons to understand his little ways, and make him comfortable. “ I call it most abominably wicked,” said Mrs. Campden. ‘‘ Doubtless it is, my dear madam ; I only said it was natural, which, indeed, corroborates the view of the Church of England upon original sin.” Mrs. Campden did not quite understand this logic, but she had a strong suspicion that her guest was joking — a thing which in itself she detested — and, what was worse, that he was joking at her own expense. She showed considerable annoyance ; nor could Mrs. Dalton avoid casting a reproachful glance at her husband. “ Is this a time,” it seemed to say, “ to give offence to friends, when it is so necessary to rally them round us ? ” But the fact was that it was the very consciousness of that necessity which tempted Dalton to show his independence, by carrying to some extremity that guerilla warfare which had always existed between his hostess and himself. Mrs. Campden had her revenge, if she had only known it ; for 86 PALLEN POR TUNES. she was very loquacious about certain plans for the future, in which Mrs. Dalton and her daughters had their share, with respect to her next visit to London. Mary, as had been arranged, was to stay with the girls in Cardigan Place for some weeks, during which all sorts of gaieties were to be enjoyed ; and then Mr. and Mrs. Campden were themselves to come up to town, and exchange their present position as host and hostess for that of guests. In all these projects the wherewithal was, of course, taken for granted and as a matter of course ; and it cut Dalton to the heart to hear the eagerness with which his daughters entered into them. In a few weeks’ time, as he bitterly reflected, there would be no home, even for themselves, far less to offer to others. His position during this unhappy day was, however, a less painful one than that of his wife ; for she could not escape without attracting notice from the society of those dear ones whose unconscious gaiety inflicted upon her a thousand stabs, while her husband could seek solitude or the companiooship of those comparatively indifferent to him, under pretence of transacting business. Indeed, he found some relief from his pressing anxieties in conversation with Holt himself, notwith- standing the unfavourable light in which he had begun to regard him. The man had a clear head for affairs, and was able to place his position and obligations before him with a greater definiteness than lay in his own power. It is something to know where you are, however uncomfortable may be your predicament ; and with this information Dalton was by this means supplied. If he was “ sold up to-morrow,” there would be three thousand pounds left for the support of his wife and family ! a sum which had hitherto about represented his annual income. “ So you can live a whole year, my good fellow, as you have been accustomed to do,” said Holt, cheerfully; “and, in the meantime, the deuce is in it, if, with such influential friends as you possess, some post is not offered you.” There were three things in this speech that annoyed Dalton excessively. In the first place, he did not like the familiarity of it — the phrase “my good fellow ” had not often been in Holt’s mouth, even if he had ever before used it ; it seemed to him that the man was taking liberties with him because of his downfall. Secondly, he thought he detected a sneer in the tone in which his “influential friends” were mentioned. It had been the MR. HOLTS ADVICE. 87 object of Holt’s ambition to be introduced to these friends, but their acquaintance could scarcely have been satisfactory to him, and it seemed probable that he meant to imply that they were broken reeds to lean upon, taking it for granted that they would be no more sympathetic with Dalton than they had been to himself. Thirdly, and most of all, he was irritated at the man’s supposing he could be so madly selfish as to continue the same course of life, under his changed circumstances, as he had hitherto done. Nevertheless, he restrained his passion. “ You must take me for a very phlegmatic fellow. Holt — not to say a knave and a fool — to suppose I could enp%j such a year of prosperity as you suggest.” ‘‘ Indeed, I meant no ofience. I have known many a man, in a worse pickle than you, go on precisely the same way as though he had not lost a shilling ; and in the end, none but himself and one or two more ever knew that he had lost one. With a year to turn about in ” “Don’t talk such sheer nonsense!” interrupted Dalton, im- patiently. “Such a phrase may mean something with your City friends, who have always got some scheme or another of enriching themselves at the expense of the public ; but as addressed to me, you must know it is mere moonshine.” “ Live on fifteen hundred, then, for double the time. Surely in two years ” “No!” broke in the other. “I am not likely to act a lie any more, I hope, than to tell one. I shall make no secret to any one, after I have left this house, of the ruin that has befallen me.” “ You will do as you please, Dalton, of course ; but I see no reason why you should cry stinking fish. Nobody likes a man the better, or feels more inclined to help him, because he is poor ; and then there is your family to be considered.”. “ Sir ! ” cried Dalton, sternly, “ I beg you will confipe your observations to those affairs in which T have asked your advice. My wife and children will be guided by my own judgment in this matter, and by it alone.” Mr. Holt shrugged his shoulders, and threw his hands up (in the style that he believed to be continental) with an air so peculiarly vulgar, that it would have aroused Dalton’s disgust under any circumstances ; as it was, he felt his contempt for this man fast changing into a consuming hate. “It is im- possible to discuss this question, Dalton, if, in every suggestion of mine, you are determined to find some ground of quarrel. In 88 FALLEN FORTUNES, my humble opinion, to inform the world of your ruin is to make that ruin certain. Men put water into a pump to make it draw ; but if they know there is nothing in the well, they spare their labour. Except in the way of charity, no moneyed man will help you if you begin by acknowledging yourself bankrupt.^’ “ And who told you, sir, that I was going to ask any man for his money ? The tone and manner of Dalton were so threaten- ing, that Holt, who had recommenced his continental shrug, de- sisted from it half-way ; his shoulders went up, but did not come down again, so that he remained like the famous jumping- frog, who could not start by reason of the small shot in his inside. “ I did not mean that you were going to beg, of course ; but money or credit may certainly be very necessary for you, and that at once, supposing there is bad news from Brazil.'^ “ Bad news from Brazil ! Do you mean as respects the Lara ? Why, we have had such bad news already, that I don’t see how it can be worse. I take it for granted that the shares must be paid up in full, and are worthless, and that all my fifteen thou- sand pounds are gone.” “ That is certain. But is it possible you have forgotten the fact that the liability is unlimited ? ” The conversation we have been describing took place in the library at Riverside — a magnificent room, . so contrived that to those within it there appeared no door at all, all the walls being lined from floor to ceiling with splendidly-bound books. These gorgeous volumes, all gilt and colour, as well as the three large windows on which the afternoon sun was shining, now began to revolve before the unhappy Dalton’s eyes ; the world spun round with him, and that so fast, that it seemed he had no breath to reply to his companion’s words. “You did know that they were unlimited, of course ? ” con- tinued the other, after a long pause. “ I did ; but you told me — you yourself — that they were only nominally so ; that the operations of the mine were on a com- paratively small scale, and that we should never be required to pay up the shares in full, much less to become liable for more.” “ I daresay I did, my good fellow ; but then I was deceived, like yourself. How could I know that the speculation would turn out to be so disastrous ? ” “ You mean that you did not know that it was a swindle ? ” “ Well, a swindle is a harsh term.” MR. HOLTS ADVICE. 89 ‘‘It IS tlie name, you have read, which the expert sent out by the committee has given to the whole concern : he says there is no gold worth speaking of, and that an attempt was made to ‘ salt’ the mine, in order to deceive him. In my opinion, to call men rogues who are capable of such a plot as that, is to pay them a compliment. They are unmitigated cheats and scoundrels, who deserve to be laid by their heels in jail, and would be likely to contaminate those they found there.” “ My good friend, one must take matters as one finds them. If I could have foreseen that the promoters of the enterprise were such as you describe, you may be sure I should not have invested my own money in it, even for a day. It is no use crying over spilt milk ; let us look at the matter like practical men. It is quite possible that the paid-up shares may cover all expenses ; but, on the other hand, they may not ; in which case it will be necessary that your friends should stand by you. I beg, my dear Dalton, that you will consider me as one of them, and certainly not the least interested in your welfare. I will myself be responsible for any liability yon may incur in the Lara, over and above the amount of the shares. If you doubt the genuineness of my offer, let me put it on paper.” “ You are very good, I am sure,” returned Dalton, keeping his eyes fixed upon the carpet, and speaking as if every word was dragged from him by force. “ Your word is quite a suffi- cient guarantee of your wish to serve me.” Whatever happened, he was resolutely determined that he would never lay himself under an obligation to this man. “ Good ? Not at all, my dear fellow,” replied the other, cheerfully ; “ it is in such circumstances as the present that a friend should show himself friendly. There is many a one who will lend you money, I don’t doubt ; but come to me first, I beg of you. As to security, be sure I shall never look for it ; and as to interest, I hope I may be allowed to say that another sort of interest, which I feel in the well-being of you and yours, will more than repay me for either risk or loss.” “You are very good,” repeatd Dalton, mechanically. It was not a hearty acknowledgment, far less an eager acceptance of his offer; but Holt seemed well content with it ; perhaps he felt that it was something that he had been allowed to say “ you and yours ” without awakening the pas- sionate resentment that he had aroused the previous night. If the gain was a small one, it had at least been made in a short time. 90 FALLEN FORTUNES. “ We shall not know about this precious mine, I suppose, for certain, until next mail ? ’’ inquired Dalton, after a pause. “ Nor even then, perhaps, as to the liability. They are sure of you, you see, confound them ! or think themselves so ; though, in such a case, considering how you have been imposed upon, there would be ample justification for your washing your hands of the whole matter. I know many a man that would do so, nor would the world blame him.’’ “ I don’t understand you. How could I wash my hands of it?” “Well, of course it’s a matter of feeling; I am not recom- mending you, mind, to take any steps of the kind ; but it would only be acting in self-defence, if you were to say : ‘ I have paid enough, and more than enough, for what was always worthless, and I will pay no more.’ You might realise what you could, and take yourself ‘ out of the jurisdiction of the court/ as the phrase is — to Sweden, for example.” “ What ! and leave the rest of the shareholders to bear the brunt of it ? ” “ That, of course, sounds like injustice ; but the question is, who are the other shareholders ? There is not one of them who has lost fifteen thousand, or five thousand, I will answer for it, beside yourself. Perhaps you are the only solvent man — I don’t know, mind, but it is as likely as not — of the whole lot. If you were out of the way, it might not be worth their while to have a shot at anybody else.” “ Then you think I should abscond to Sweden with my wife and family ? ” “ I confess I think small blame would be imputed to you, if you withdrew yourself, till matters were settled, either to that country or elsewhere ; but as to your taking Mrs. Dalton and the young ladies, that seems to me quite out of the question.” “ It is not more out of the question than that I should go myself. Holt,” answered Dalton, coldly. “ Pray understand that I am not yet a scoundrel, although I find myself connected with schemers, such as started the Lara ; it will save you a great deal of pains in making any future suggestions, if you keep that in mind.” As he said this, Dalton rose from his chair, and pushing open the “ dummy ” door, formed of the backs of books, walked out of the room, leaving his companion to his meditations. Mr. Richard Holt, however, was not a man to easily take offence (unless it was to his advantage — as it sometimes was — to do so) ; he doubtless made allowance for the soreness of one SYMPATHETIC INK. 91 in wliom the sense of ruin was so recent ; and when he met his friend an hour or so afterwards in the drawing-room, it was with his usual air and manner. Dalton, on his part, also soon re- covered himself ; he could not but reflect that he had heard Holt give utterance to the like lax opinions and advice with respect to others, and had not rebuked him ; so that it was not sur- prising he should have suggested such a course in his own case, without apprehension of giving offence. In spite of his dislike for the man, his company for the present was almost necessary to him ; he was the only person — save his wife, who did not un- derstand them — to whom he could speak unreservedly respecting his affairs. Holt might be useful to him yet ; he had a keen practical mind, and if his advice had been at one time fatal to him, it could be no longer harmful, since he had nothing to lose. So much of assistance it seemed to him he had a right to claim. But as to accepting from him any such help as had been sug- gested, that was not to be thought of. He had never been indebted to him for any favour — ^his instinct had warned him against that from the first ; and now least of all, in his wretched- ness and ruin, did he feel inclined to accept assistance at his hands. CHAPTEH XII. SYMPATHETIC INK. The days of Biverside went on as of old : there were croquet- parties, riding-parties, water-parties, during the day-time ; and in the evening there were dinner-parties, dancing-parties, and charades. The house was neither gayer nor less gay than it was wont to be, and in all these entertainments John Dalton bore his part — which was always the chief part. He possessed the re- putation of being the “ life and soul ” of every social gathering, and he had to sustain it ; just as a great nobleman must “ keep up his vast estate, although he is in reality as poor as his meanest tenant. It was not so difficult a task as many would imagine. The high spirits w’^hich had hitherto carried him so bravely and buoyantly on the very top of the wave, it is true, had vanished; but the light manner and the sparkling wit re- mained — they had become as natural to him as pomposity or melancholy to another ; and it needed a keen observer to note that paste had taken the place of the diamond. It was only remarked of him that he was growing cynical, a condition at 92 FALLEN FORTUNES. 'which most men of wit and pleasure arrive long before his time of life. Jenny, indeed, had gravely asked t “ Mamma, what is the matter with dear papa ? And when her mother had answered, “ Nothing, darling,’' she came to the conclusion there was some- thing very bad indeed. But Jenny, as we have heard her observe, was a looker-on at the game of life, and saw more of it than the players. On the third day, the answers to John Dalton’s applications to his friends began to arrive ; each of them a page of human nature, complete and characteristic in itself, yet differing from all the rest only in degree. He was a man too popular with the crowd — for the “ crowd ” is a term that suits with the highest fashion and the most cultured minds, as fitly as with the lowest and the most ignorant — to have secured the best sort of friends. He had “ dulled his palm ” too much with welcoming mere com- rades, to have grappled to himself true men with hooks of steel. That kind, perhaps, did not exist in the society among which he had moved, and where camaraderie rather than friendship was cultivated ; but such hearts as there had been to win, he had really won. He did not receive one letter such as satirists have described as the reply of a rich man to a ruined one. No man absolutely turned his back upon him, or offered him a five- pound note in compromise and farewell. His knowledge of the world had doubtless prevented him from applying to the intrinsically base. Yet these letters were very various — there were some that brought the blood into his cheek for very shame, and some the tears into his eyes, with their outspoken tenderness and generosity. There were ap- prehensive letters — or what, perhaps, his soreness only took for such ; letters in which he thought he read a fear lest the writer should be called upon to put his hand into his pocket; and there were letters in which such offers as the following were to be found, couched in more or less delicate phrase : “As to money, my dear fellow, though you do not mention it, and I am afraid would be backward in doing so, pray remember, if you should want a banker, to apply to me.” Three letters in which that suggestion was made came from very wealthy men, who had never in their lives known what it was to want a shilling, or a thousand pounds. If they had made their money, their readiness to appreciate the want of it in another would have been less surprising. As it was, their generosity overwhelmed him; while it pricked his pride only SYMPATHETIC INK, 93 a very little, for lie had not the smallest intention of taking advantage of their offers. These last two classes were, of course, at the opposite ends of the scale of his correspondents. Between them came a number of replies representing less marked varieties of character. What was most displeasing to him were the conventional condolences which were expressed, and es- pecially the confident expectations the writers affected to entertain that all things wonld be well with him by-and-by. “ A man with ready wit like yours,” some said, “ cannot long be without some profitable employment ; ” and one even wrote that “ he could hardly help congratulating a man of such abilities that he would be now compelled, though the compulsion for the moment might seem irksome” — (“Confound his impu- dence ! ” exclaimed Dalton, in a fury) — “ to apply them to the benefit of the State ; for, as to getting some high post under Government, there could not be the smallest doubt.” As to this last, almost all his friends were agreed in the same view; they had not “the smallest doubt” that he would get something — “and at once,” added the more sanguine — “which would relieve him from his anxieties, and perhaps place him in a more agreeable groove of existence than he had hitherto oc- cupied.” Only a few honest friends allowed that he was “ in a hole,” and hoped, evidently against hope, that he would be soon out of it. He noticed, with a bitter smile, that these last persons had themselves been place-hunters in their time, and understood the difficulties of the pursuit. For the rest, the answer to the main question which he had addressed to each was in every case the same, and identical with that given to all beggars : “ I am very sorry, my good man, but I have nothing for you.” Dalton felt that they had spoken the truth ; but the truth was only less bitter than if they had replied : “ We have something, but we will not give it to you.” Such would in effect be the answer of Sir William Skipton, he knew, no matter in what terms it was conveyed, and he was not going to put himself in the way of such a rebuff. He had already exhausted every channel to which he might reasonably look for aid, and it was idle indeed to make application in less likely quarters. A day or two more passed by, and the last of the replies had reached him. They all told the same tale. There was nothing for him but to wait and not hope — there was no ground, in truth, to build ever so small a hope upon. He had laid all the letters before his wife, and she had perused them with infinite 94 FALLEN FORTUNES. care ; not glancing through them with a sort of scornful im- patience, as he had done, and then throwing them aside, hut well weighing every word, and from some extracting here and there a grain of comfort. Bat her great consolation and hope of help lay elsewhere altogether. “John, dear, God will never forsake us; however we may have deserved His wrath, He will never leave our innocent children to starve.’’ “You have deserved nothing but good of Him,” cried Dalton, passionately. “ That is what makes it so bitter to me.” “ Oh, John, how can you talk so ! ” pleaded she, earnestly. “ We have little — at least I am sure that I have fallen very, very far short of my duty, and many times ; and even if it had not been so, if I had been what your blind love supposes, does not St. Paul call himself the chief of sinners ? ” “Yes, but he did not believe it; or, if he did, he had his reasons : you never went about persecuting people, for example, to persuade them to be Pharisees.” “ Oh, John, John ! I beseech you, whatever happens, do not give up your faith. It is certain we are all sinners.” “ I am quite willing to own as much in my own case,” answered her husband. “ I don’t say I have not deserved even such a blow as this ; but as for you and the children — you will not tell me, I suppose, that Jenny, whom nothing but a miracle could have healed from the first, and who will now perish from sheer lack of means to save her, has deserved it ? There, darling, I am sorry : don’t give way like that. I was wrong, very wrong, to talk so, but I feel at times so desperate. It is over now. You shall never hear me question the decrees of Bate again.” He kept his word to her from that hour; but in his heart he did still question them, and resented them ; for bright, and even brilliant, though it was, John Dalton had a very undisciplined mind. Moreover, he had been all his life a favourite of Fortune, and now that she had turned her back upon him, he was as furious as a lover who has just been jilted. The world was not only out of joint Avith him, because this Lara mine had turned out an ill-success, but both worlds. The whole system of the universe seemed to him either to be thrown out of gear, or to be wrong ah ovo : a state of mind which will appear not only intensely wicked, but absurdly unreasonable, to all persons who have not experienced a like misfortune. In sober fact, the three thousand pounds or so. which still remained to him, and which SYMPATHETIC INK, 95 some would no doubt regard as a small fortune, seemed to one of his habits a mere stop-gap — a halting-place upon the road to ruin ; and in his place, it would probably have so appeared to most of us. Hs felt himself “ going under” — not, indeed, at one plunge, but quite as surely as though it had been so, and that he was dragging with him those he loved into the depths of poverty — a condition which they were utterly unfitted to endure. Escape for himself there was none ; he no longer looked, or wished for any such ; but how to rescue his wife and children was a problem that was never absent from his mind. And at last a plan occurred to him. He had had it, fitfully, in his mind before, but had always discarded it for a certain reason ; but now it was suggested to him anew by his host, of course, un- wittingly, since he had not been let into the secret of his mis- fortune. Mr. Campden was a man who, though not exactly what is called “ self-made,” had risen* from comparatively small begin- nings ; his father had had a moderately good business, which enabled him to send his son to college, where he had first become acquainted with Dalton ; and this business — it was type- founding — the younger Campden had greatly extended. But the mass of his fortune had arisen — with great help from a quarter already mentioned — from the eligible investment of his savings. He held on to what he had once bought through good report and evil report, and in almost all cases — even when the stock was depreciated — had found his account in doing so. He contended that in this consisted the great advantage which a rich man possesses over a poor one in the matter of speculation — that he can afford to hold on He had shares in every description of property : in banks, in railways, and in ships ; and taking them all round, his invest- ments had been very fortunate. He was the last man to boast of his wealth — purse-pride was a sentiment utterly beneath and foreign to his wholesome nature ; but he did plume himself a little upon those transactions which had done credit to his judg- ment. Some ten days after the misfortune that had befallen his guest, a certain dividend came to him by the morning post which afforded him unusual satisfaction. He threw it across the table with a chuckle, and bade Dalton look at it. How little he knew that he was behaving like the. cruel school-boy to his hungry class-fellow : “ Do you like cake ? then see me eat it.” He would rather have cut his hand off, or FALLEN FORTUNES. 96 at all events a finger, than have insulted the ruined man with the display of his good fortune. Dalton ran his eye over the sum-total, which was in four figures. “ You must have a heap of money in the concern,^’ said he, carelessly, “ to produce such a dividend as this.” “Not at all,” replied the other, gleefully; “but it has never paid less than ten per cent, since the Board took my advice in a certain matter. It’s the Falm Brmich Insurance Society F “ Indeed,” replied Dalton, as coldly as before ; but he felt the colour rush to his cheeks, and then ebb again. The Falm Branch was the company in which his own life was insured for five thousand pounds. “And how was it you raised the divi- dend ? ” “ Well, it was the simplest thing in the world. I had long noticed that the insurance companies that were most popular with the public are those which cover every description of L ss, and which do not haggle about exceptional risks. A man don’t want to go to the Cannibal Islands — and as a matter of fact doesn’t go — but he also does not like to be told that he may not do so if he chooses. Well, I, as their chairman, persuaded my brother-directors to sweep all these restrictions away, and the results have been surprisingly satisfactory. Our applications for policies have almost doubled, and yet we are not a penny the worse. A man may even join the Balm Branch, and cut his throat the next morning if he pleases, and yet his widow will get her money.” “ And nobody has ever done it ? ” It seemed to Dalton, as he put this question, that every one was looking at him, though for his part he looked at none, but, toying with his tea-spoon, stared at the bottom of liis cup. His wife, he felt certain, had her eye upon him, and Holt also. “ Of course nobody has done it,” returned his host, con- temptuously ; “ and it is ten thousand to one that nobody ever will. If he does, so much the better for us. We should pay his policy in a month by the increase of our clients. ‘ The Balm Branch for our money,’ they will say, ‘for it makes no objection to anything.’ Other companies are already copying us so far as to allow their people to put an end to themselves after six months ; but that is a half-measure which will do neither good nor harm. It is the most satisfactory suggestion in the way of business that ever I made.” » SVJl/PA THETIC INK, 97 ‘‘ I think it a very Iiorrid one/’ remarked Mrs. Campden, sententiously. “ Then yon mustn’t drive your new pair of ponies any more, my dear,” was her husband’s quiet reply, “ for the price of them came out of it.” “Well, I suppose it is not so bad as it looks,” returned the hostess, in a more mitigated tone ; “ but, on the first blush of it, it appears almost like a premium upon suicide.” “ No, my dear, the suicide pays the premium, not we ; though perhaps he may only do it once.” “ I do not see anything to joke about, Mr. Campden, on so shocking a subject,” observed the lady, austerely, as she rose with the rest of her sex from the now finished repast. “ I assure you, my dear, I only wished to remove your scru- ples about those ponies. They are really not the price of blood, because nobody has yet reaped any advantage from our new arrangement. There is, perhaps, a little temptation to some of our clients when they shave; but as to using their razors for ” “ Ugh! ” interrupted the lady, as she swept out of the room in the rear of her retreating force. “ Don’t talk of such things, I beg. If that is what you call humour, I am glad I don’t un- derstand it.” “ Now, my wife would drive those ponies, Dalton — and with just as great satisfaction — if half our board of directors should cut their throats to-morrow,” observed Mr. Campden, as the door closed behind her. “ But not if the chairman did it, I hope ? ” said Dalton, smiling. “Well, I think in that case she’d wait — perhaps a week,” answered the host, with a cheerful laugh. His dividend had put him in great good-humour. For the moment nothing more was said ; but when Dalton and his host were presently smoking their cigars together in the garden, the former resumed the subject. “I suppose,” said he, “this obliging permission of yours, to all whom it may concern to make away with themselves, is not retrospective ? You don’t allow people to do it who have in- sured with you under the old system ? ” “ Well, no; because there is nothing attractive about that to new clients. But at the same time there is some doubt — at least so our secretary thinks, who is a lawyer — whether they might not take advantage of the concession if they would. It H FALLEN FORTUNES. 98 seems deuced bard that a man who has insured with us for twenty years, for example, may not blow bis brains out if be pleases, while any fellow who joined us yesterday cujoys the privilege. For my part, however, I think the law would be upon our side, and — setting aside that the thing is a crime — the Gospel too. We have agreed with the old set for a penny a day ; and if we choose to give the new ones twopence, the former have no right to complain.” “You mean no legal right?” observed Dalton, to whom a parable from the Scriptures had just now no overwhelming force of conviction. “ Well, yes. Of course there would be something to be said morally — if the subject admitted of morals — upon the other side. The man who had insured with us for twenty years, for example, would certainly not be as guilty of fraud, if he were to commit suicide and to conceal it, as he would have been had our new system never been inaugurated. There would, at all events, be more excuse for him, since his case would, by comparison, be a hard one.” “ And yet I suppose you would not pay a policy thus for- feited ? ” “Yes ; I should recommend it to be paid, because I think it would be our policy to pay it. It would be a most splendid ad- vertisement, and would not cost more than the usual method of advertising. You have no idea what a lot of money is spent in that way, even by an insurance company.” And Mr. Campden went off into statistics upon that subject, and the topic of life-insurance was dropped. Mr. Campden was a man of large ideas in business transac- tions, and hated details, unless they were of real importance ; he had never had the curiosity to peruse the list of policy- holders in the 'Palm Branch, and was quite ignorant that his guest — who, on his part, never troubled his friends with his own affairs — was insured in it. Mrs. Dalton, whose parents had died while she was little more ^ than a child, had come of age shortly before her marriage, and, as we have said, had refused to have her fortune of ten thousand pounds settled upon her in the usual way, but had given the absolute disposal of it to her husband ; and he in his turn — though at that time he had thought the money as safe from any act of his as though it had been tied up by the most stringent of deeds — had insured his life for half that sum, namely, five thou- sand pounds. He had not dreamed, although the thing had 99 JENNY^S SUSPICIONS. chus been done in the way of a ‘‘ set off,” that tbis provision for his family would ever be a matter of great moment ; but its im- portance, if “anything should happen to him,’* had now become paramount. This sum, added to the three thousand pounds which he still possessed, would secure them a competency. On the other hand, if he should continue to live on, the three thou- sand pounds would be spent all the quicker, for instead of being the bread-winner of his family, he would only be the largest consumer of their bread ; while the insurance itself would be a millstone about their necks, by reason of the yearly premiums, one of which, as it happened, was due in a month’s time. CHAPTER XIII. jenny’s suspicions. Although the affliction from which Miss Jenny Dalton suffered was not one which the visits of general practitioners (or even of physicians) could appreciably benefit, the family doctor was accustomed to call upon her daily in Cardigan Place ; and even in the country it had been some source of comfort to her mother that good Dr. Curzon should “ look in ” and see how matters were going on with the invalid, at least once or twice a week. He was as kind as he was clever, and his kindness, at all events, seemed to do her good. Jenny “ believed in him ” implicitly, though her faith was by no means lightly won. He never in- dulged in the commonplaces of his craft, or prophesied smooth things to her. She might get a little better, he told her ; but he never held out any expectation of her getting well, which indeed, if it had happened, would have been a miracle. To a looker-on, her condition seemed not only hopeless, but neces- sarily unhappy. To move with pain, and often to be unable to move, without assistance, at all; to pass bright summer days stretched upon a sofa, and to lie awake, sometimes in pain, through weary nights ; to see girls of her own age busy with their mallets in the croquet-ground, or taking the wholesome kisses of the air on horseback, while she had to content herself with books or lacework, seemed a hard lot. The future, too, ap- peared to be more full of vain regrets and sad comparisons than the present ; it was certain that she would never feel a lover’s kiss or know a husband’s love. The dreams and hopes of girlhood were not for her, and yet Jenny was far from being unhappy. Her intellectual tastes were catholic, and she was an om- niverous reader. In her huge mahogany desk — she had others, 100 FALLEN FORTUNES, of rosewood and mother-of-pearl, but this one, a gift of her old nurse, Haywood, years and years ago, was her special favourite — she kept a store of treasures hidden from every eye, the laying up of which was more delightful to her than the growth of a miner’s store — precious manuscripts in a fast-flowing hand — tragedy, comedy, pastoral, pastoral-comical, scene indivi- dable, and poem unlimited ” — all the various coin that comes from the mint of the teeming brain of youth. If she could not mix with the world around her, she had a world of her own, peopled by creatures of her own invention, into which no mortal could intrude without her leave. When others thought her wholly wrapped up in weaving that fairy filigree of lacework which was so greatly admired and extravagantly estimated by amateurs, it was often only her fingers that were thus employed ; her brain was busy with that other work, of which no one knew the secret, though perhaps one — so keen is a mother’s love — had guessed at it. Concealment is not always like the worm i’ the bud ; in the case of the literary aspirant, it is a wholesome sign, and has a wnolesome effect ; the scribbler and the witling pine for fame and the immediate fruition of their gifts, and shrink only from the critic ; but modest worth, ere its blossom blows, shrinks from the very eye of day. If Dr. Curzon had known how his patient employed herself — not only in times suitable for study, but not seldom in the weary watches of the night — he would perhaps have forbidden such employment ; but as it was, being totally ignorant of the well- spring of her content and patience, Jenny was simply a phy- siological marvel to him, the cheerfulest caged and suffering bird he knew. “Doctor,” said Jenny, one morning, when he had concluded his professional inquiries — such as they were — and had touched, in his funny way, upon all his several topics — lacework, litera- ture, Tony, and the condition of some of his own poor folks whom Jenny had privately under her wing, so far as it could shield them — “ Doctor, can you keep a secret ? ” “ My dear,” returned he, “ I was born for that very purpose ; Mumm’s champagne is not so still.” “ But, dear doctor, I am in earnest. It is a serious matter, and one which, perhaps, since he himself has not spoken to you about it, I ought not to mention ; but it is my belief that papa is ill.” “ Your papa ill ? Well, he ought to be, no doubt, considering JENNV^S StJSPlCiOEtS. lot the rich men’s feasts at which ho has sat so constantly for the last twenty years ; but I have very little hopes of it.” “ Hopes of it ! ” “ I speak as a professional man, my dear. As a friend, of course 1 should be sorry to see any signs of a break-up in his system ; but he seems to me to be made of iron.” “ On the contrary, I am convinced that he is very unwell. He has no appetite ; his spirits are forced ; his manner is wholly changed. I don’t think he hears what is said to him once out of three times.” “Liver.” “ Perhaps ; but, at all events, it should be looked to. He will never tell you a word about it of himself. He only believes in doctors for other people, you know.” “ That is something, however ; I have met wretches who have not even that faith by proxy. Well, am I to ask your papa to be a good boy, and put out his tongue ? Nothing can be done, you know, without that.” “ You can find out what is the matter, without appearing to be inquisitive, doctor, as I know very well.” “But do you mean to say that your mother is ignorant of this indisposition — that is, supposing that there is really any- thing the matter ? ” “ No, indeed ; she is quite aware of it, but has been forbidden to speak. I know her so well, and also how papa dislikes any fuss made about himself. It is making her very wretched, I can see. We go to town next week, and then he will fall into the hands of Dr. Jones — if he is persuaded to consult anyone — and I don’t believe in Dr. Jones.” “ Quite right ; vote for Curzon and country air, my dear.” “ Well, at all events, papa has confidence in you, and will listen to what you say ; you have tact, as I have said, and our medical friend in town has none. It will be very bad for mamma, in a few months’ time, if papa was to have a bad illness.” “ So it would, no doubt. She is not one to bear much worry at any time. I mean, she would bear it — God help her ! — like a hero, only it would kill her.” “Oh, doctor, don’t say that ! ” cried Jenny, quickly. “Nay, my dear; don’t be frightened. Even if your father had a fit of the gout, your mother would get over it, and he is not likely to have worse than gout. I was, of course, only speaking of some very serious trouble, such as, let us hope, is 10:2 FALLEN FOk TV NFS. not likely to befall either her or hers. She takes things to heart too much, and at the same time is inclined to keep all her miseries to herself. That is my view of her.” “ I cannot say what is my view, doctor, it keeps changing so. It seems to me, to-day, that I cannot love her more — that she is all perfection ; but to-morrow I shall have found out some fresh excellence in her, I know, which will lay upon her children a new debt of gratitude and affection. I have had no experience of angels, but I shall be quite content if I find heaven peopled by such folks as my mamma.” The doctor smiled, and laid his hand upon Jenny’s luxuriant tresses, in tender approval. “ And you tremble lest this mother, to whom you are so justly devoted, should be soon going to heaven, Jenny ? ” said he, gravely. “ Am I not right ? ” “Yes, doctor,” answered she, in a half-choked whisper. “ Such is my selfish fear. I dread her exchanging this world for eternal happiness in the next, where, perhaps, I shall not be. O doctor, tell me truly, do you think she is going to leave us ? ” “ No, Jenny,” was the quick reply. “ I see no reason for any such apprehension. She is delicate, of course — almost as fragile as yourself ; and she has a trial before her which I wish she could be spared ; but so long as she has no anxieties — and she has none now, for you are certainly getting stronger — and can keep her heart up, she will do well enough.” “ Then that is only another reason why papa should take car e of himself, or rather be taken care of. I am, I repeat, quite confident that he requires care. That he should fail in spirits is a portent that it is impossible to disregard, if there were no worse symptons.” “ But that may be from other causes than physical indisposi- tion. He has his troubles, of course — for all his mirth and brightness — like other people ; perhaps they are just now a little thicker than usual. There was that disappointment down at Bampton, for example.” “ I thought of that, of course, doctor ; but I have made certain it is not Bampton. I have heard him say myself, in a manner that I am sure was genuine, that he does not regret his defeat, except, of course, for what it cost him ; and the money, as I know, he made up his mind to spend.” “ Well, well, my dear, I will do my best to physic your papa, if he really needs it, in spite of himself ; you shall work it up in his food for him, like the poisoners.” JENNY'S SUSPICIONS, 103 But in spite of his light way of treating the affair — which was indeed natural with him — the doctor knew Jenny far too well to doubt that there was something really wrong with her father, though he was not so ready as the majority of his calling would have been to set it down, as he had pretended to do, to “ liver.” The fact was that Dr. Curzon — than whom a discreeter or more prudent man was not supposed, in that part of the country, to exist — had himself once lost five hundred pounds, his entire savings for many a long year, in “ a perfectly safe investment ; ” and knowing the strength of that sort of temptation, if he had heard that the Archbishop of Canterbury had been obliged to let Lambeth Palace for the season to some opulent Hebrew, on account of speculation in “ Turks,” he would not have been astonished. In the case of an idle and extravagant man like John Dalton, it seemed to him the most natural thing in the world that he should have burnt his fingers ” with some at- tractive speculation or another, and that the loss had affected his appetite. Perhaps the good doctor was not wholly free from that sense of pleasure said to be excited by the misfortunes of our friends ; but if it was so, this, in his case, solely arose from the complacent satisfaction he derived from so sharp a fellow as Dalton having fallen into the same pit as himself. He had no idea, of course, of the depth he had fallen, nor how much he had hurt himself, or there would have been no room in his kind heart for anything but the sincerest sympathy. If this was the nature of his friend^s ailment, he could indeed do nothing in the way of help ; so that, upon the whole, he would have com- pounded for him to have been menaced with a good sharp attack of gout or rheumatism, against which his professional aid might be of use. It was hardly more likely — as he was well aware — that Dalton should consult him in the one case than in the other; but as he happened to have an opportunity of being alone with him on that same afternoon, he thought he would ‘‘just have a shot at the ducks” — a playful expression he was accustomed to apply to all experiments of an empirical nature. “My dear Dalton,” said he, “now we have done talking of your daughter, I should like to say one word about yourself. She has told me — quite in confidence, indeed she has told no one else, not even her mother — that you have been getting out of sorts lately.” “What on earth makes her think that?” replied Dalton, laughing. “ I am as hard as nails, and as fresh as paint.” 104 FALLEN- FORTUNES. Then I am sorry I spoke/^ said the doctor, drily. You need not be that, Curzon. Of course I shall not tell Jenny that you mentioned it.’^ “ I was not thinking of Jenny. I said I am sorry, because, of course, I have no right to pry into your private affairs; and since you tell me you are not ill, it is clear that you have some serious trouble. I am quite sure Jenny has made no mistake as to something being the matter.^’ “ Well, then, I have a trouble,’^ said Dalton, quickly ; “ and I have no objection to reveal its nature to you — provided that it goes no farther. If it was to be known, I should lose, for one thing, my self-respect.” “ I hope that is an exaggeration,” answered the other, gravely. “ It is not uncommon with men to accuse themselves of having acted improperly, when they have, in fact, only made an error in judgment that has cost them dear. Nevertheless, if you feel it a humiliation to speak of the matter, do not do so.” Dalton smiled. “ I am grateful to you for your delicate con- sideration, my dear doctor; and am quite ashamed to have evoked it by what, I fear, you will consider to be false pre- tences. My ailment is very slight, though I allow I have one. The fact is, I have been worried day and night for the last week by toothache. I am a shocking coward not to have it out, of course, and that is just what I donT want people to know ; and that is the loug and short of the whole matter.” “ Let me look at the tooth.” “ Not I,” said Dalton, stepping back with a light laugh. “Your fingers shall not come near it. I donT doubt that you have some terrible instrument up your sleeve at this very moment. At all events, I won’t trust you. I daresay a less excitable man would think nothing of it ; and I could grin and bear it myself — indeed, I thought I had done so pretty well, only it seems Jenny’s eyes were too sharp for me — if I could only sleep o’ nighis.” “ It’s so bad as that, is it ? ” “ It is. I have absolutely no rest. My appetite too, I daresay, seems to have fallen off ; but that is because I am afraid to eat. There is no pleasure in life while this thumping and jumping are going on in one’s jaw.” “ You have the character of being a very clever fellow, Dalton ” “ Oh, never mind that,” interrupted the other. “ I may be twice as clever as Dizzy himself, but you may be sure of one JENNY^S SUSPICIONS, 105 thing — that I won’t have it out. I have had a tooth out before ; a double one, just like this. The first pull was only torture ; the second I thought was the end of the world ; the third, the man broke my jaw. Of course there is such a thing as chloro- form, but I have reasons for objecting to chloroform.^’ “ I was about to say, Dalton,” observed the doctor, coolly, that although you were such a clever fellow, you have, in this instance, fallen into a mistake, from which your intelligence should have preserved you — the mistake of undervaluing the wits of others. I am country-born and country-bred, and, I have no doubt, very inferior to your London men of the world ; but I am not quite such a fool as you seem to have taken me for. It would have been wiser in you — and, I venture to add, more friendly — to have told me the truth about yourself, or to have told me nothing.” “But, upon my word and honour, I have the toothacbe.” “ I don’t doubt it ; I did not pay you so bad a compliment as to suppose you capable of a downright falsehood. But when you said, ‘I will tell you what is my trouble,’ I expected to hear it, and not merely what is doubtless an aggravation of it ; but still ” “My dear Curzon, I scarcely know what I say,” interrupted the other, gloomily. “ For Heaven’s sake, bear with me, for I am sick at heart.” “ You ? Of all men, I should have said you were the least likely to be that. You have a wife, of whom any man may well be proud ; your children are just the brightest and the dearest ” “Don’t speak of them, Curzon; it is upon their account — God help them ! — that I am so unmanned.” He pushed the still plenteous hair back from his broad forehead with both his hands, and paced the room with rapid strides. “ It is curious that you should have spoken to me this afternoon upon the very subject that I have been wishing to speak to you for many a day. I want your advice, doctor ; your best advice, upon a matter of which, as I believe, no one has as yet any suspicion. We are liable to interruption here ; and if I consulted you up- stairs, it would excite remark.” “You wish to speak with me, then, professionally? ” “ Of course. How else should there be any secret about it ? When am I most likely to find you at home ? ” “ I will make a point of being so at any time you please.” “ Let us say at noon to-morrow, then. I will take the boat io6 FALLEN FORTUNES, over, and drop down on you over tlie crags. I can go that way without any one suspecting it, and be back at luncheon without being missed. Perhaps you will think of something in the meantime for my toothache — a drop or two of laudanum at bed-time, for example, will give me a night’s rest.” “ I’ll send my boy over with some this evening.” “No, no ; don’t trouble to do that. I don’t want my wife to know that I have said a word about my health ; and the arrival of any bottle from your vineyard would be very suspicious. I would rather bring it back myself to-morrow.” And so the matter was arranged. CHAPTER XIV. now DR. CURZON’S LITTLE ACCOUNT WAS SETTLED. An American philosopher has likened the position of a man “ waiting for something to turn up ” to one who goes into a field, and sits with a pail between his legs, expecting that presently a cow will back up to him to be milked ; and though John Dalton was unaware of the metaphor, his sensations were identical with that of the man with the pail. Indeed, they were still less sanguine, for, to his eyes, there was no cow in the field at all. He had hitherto — save with respect to the state of health of his wife and Jenny,' about which he was always more or less appre- hensive — been a stranger to anxiety. He had had no grounds for it in any direction. His position and income had been a.s- sured. He had not been an extravagant man, but had always lived up to his means, wdthout saving a penny ; for there had been no need to save. He had not laid up anything against a rainy day, because his atmosphere — like that of some tropical regions — seemed incapable of rain. And now a deluge had fallen, the unexpectedness of the catastrophe had overwhelmed him, quite as much as its magnitude. Moreover, bad as things were, it was certain that they would become worse ; it was only a question of time as to its being all over wdth him and his. His condition w^as precisely that of one who stands upon a rock at present a little above the waves, but which the advancing tide is as sure to cover with eight feet of water as is the sun to set or the moon to rise. Some men — perhaps most men — would stick to that temporary refuge, wet and shivering, to the very last, while limb after limb was being submerged ; but others, though they could not swim a stroke, w’ould “ take arms against that sea of DR. CURZON^S LITTLE ACCOUNT. 107 troubles, and by opposing, end tbem^’ — would plunge in, and anticipate their doom. To one of Dalton’s sensitive and nervous organisation, sus- pense would perhaps in any case have been harder to endure than calamity ; but his was suspense which could only have one end — that of hopeless ruin; and meanwhile, the ruin was always before his ejes. Already he saw his wretched store dwindling day by day till nothing was left ; his delicate wife, his ailing child, suffering all the inconveniences of poverty, the hardships of want, and then the pangs of destitution. As a matter of fact, the last was out of the question, for two reasons : they would never live through the two first stages ; nor would their friends, even the least genuine of them, have permitted the third. But the only alternative was the humiliation of dependence, the bitterness of beggary. And this was supposing that the three thousand pounds on which he had calculated would remain intact ; that there would be no further liabilities for the Xam mine than the shares in full. He fed upon these miserable thoughts both night and day, and upon the top of it ad was the necessity of appearing calm and free from care — nay, of even keeping up his character for high spirits. A duller man would have taken matters more quietly; a wiser man would have called in some philosophy to his aid, and would certainly not have abandonedhope ; but with this man — with hislightways and undisciplined mind — it was as though a butterfly had been caught in the “ frozen palms of winter. It was not to be wondered at, under the circumstances, that life was growing intolerable to John Dalton. There had been rain for a day or two which had swollen the Hathay to unusual dimensions, and Uncle George proposed at breakfast one morning that they should take the steam-yacht up to the mere — a suggestion that met with great applause from the young people. It was the first time that the voyage had been practicable since the Daltons had come to Riverside, so that to Kate and Jenny and Tony it had all the charm of novelty. Indeed, the Campdens themselves had as little pleasure out of their steam-yacht — save what they might derive from the mere possession of so fine a toy — as it is possible to imagine ; and even on the present occasion the water in the river was said to be falling so rapidly that it was necessary they should start at once, while there was yet enough of it to float the vessel. If they waited till the afternoon, they might reach the mere, but would scarcely get back again, was the verdict of the Admiral of the Fleet, as the chief man in charge of the boats io8 FALLEN EORTUNES. bad been called by Jenny; so that there was no choice about the matter. “ 0 papa, can you really not come with us ? ’’ exclaimed Kitty, piteously. He had already taken care to explain that he would be engaged that morning, in order to be free to keep his appointment with Dr. Curzon ; and the proposed expedition was welcome to him, since it would secure his departure from observation. “No, my darling ; indeed, I cannot,’* said he. “ But your company is half the battle,” observed Mrs. Camp- dtn, graciously. “Nay; you will have no battle at all without me,” replied he, in laughing allusion to his frequent combats with his hostess. “ I mean, sir, that we shall never get on without you.” But, my dear madam, you never get on roiih me.” It is impossible to describe in words the air and manner which made Dalton’s speeches void of offence ; but even his enemies allowed that he had an “ agreeable insolence,” which it w’as very difficult to resent without being put entirely in the wu’ong. If he had made up his mind not to do a thing, it w^as known for certain by those who knew him — though he never gave a flat refusal — that he would not do it ; and his hostess made no further effort to persuade him to join the water- party. He retired to the library after breakfast, in accordance with his pretence of writing letters of business ; but he had, in fact, no business now, while of writing letters he had had of late more than enough. He was indeed only w^aiting until the others should be off and the cost clear for him to start upon his visit to the doctor. Now he would pace the room with impatient strides, and now — when a footstep came near the door — would seat himself quickly at his desk with the paper and pen before him ; and now he would start up again and resume his walk ; and now would aimlessly take down from the well-lined walls a book, and read a few lines, then put the volume back mechani- cally, like one in a dream. He felt that he was losing his volition ; that except for that certain line of conduct which he had marked out for himself, and which, since yesterday, was ever present to his mind, he had no adaptability, nor force, nor will. Everything else was outside of him, as it were, and possessed no interest for him. It had been with the utmost difficulty, when, at breakfast-time, his host had asked his DR, CURZON^S LITTLE ACCOUNT, 109 opinion concerning some Cabinet question treated of in the newspaper, that he could gather his wits together to express his views. The difference between Whig and Tory had become even less to him than that between Tweedle-dum and Tweedlc- dee. He was above all things, in his political feelings, an Englishman, and yet he felt that if news had come that morning that his country was at war, it would not have quickened his pulses by a single beat. Only one thing gained his attention for a moment — a volume of the “ Annual Register had been one of those which he took up, and in it his eye chanced to light upon a strange tragedy that had, years ago, taken place in France ; it was the story of a humpbacked boy, a mere child, who had lost his parents, and been left dependent upon an uncle for subsistence. This man had worked him like a slave, yet was always beating and ill-treating him ; and when the poor child was away from his wretched home, the boys in the street would jeer at him, because of his defect in shape. At last, wearied out by toil and ill-usage, and the universal contempt, the humpback had ended his misery by hanging himself in a wood near Paris. At the bottom of the tree was found a scrap of paper with these words upon it, “I have had enough of it,” signed with the little fellow^s name. The whole story was contained in a paragraph, but it was the tragedy of a human life. Under other circumstances, Dalton would have given a sigh of sympathy for the victim, uttered a curse against his persecutor, and have forgotten the wretched tale as soon as possible. But now it clung to him like a very shirt of Nessus, and filled him with poisonous thoughts. Here was a child, sent into the world deformed, to be tortured in body and mind until he was driven to put an end to himself. Where was justice z Where was mercy ? Where was Provi- dence ? Some persons in Dalton’s case would perhaps have comforted themselves with the reflection that, however un- pleasant their lines in life had fallen, they were, at all events, far preferable to those of the poor hunchback', they would have extracted consolation from the fact that they had deserved worse things than this unhappy child, yet had experienced better, and would perhaps even have felt gratitude on that account. But Dalton took up the cudgels against Fate itself, upon the child’s account, almost unaware that he was moved to do so by his own consciousness of wrongs ; indeed, to do him justice, he had not himself, but only his belongings, in view. He was ready to own that he deserved considerable punishment no FALLEN FORTUNES, — not perhaps quite so severe as had befallen him, but punish- ment within reasonable limits — but as respected his v/ife and children, he was very bitter and rebellious. ‘‘ They have done no hurt, and yet they are doomed to misery ; and though I have sinned, I have not sinned so deeply as to deserve that I, who love them so, should have been the cause of their ruin.’' ‘‘ It was a wretched, ill-goveriied world in which such things 1 were possible,” was the reflection that he made to himself, ( though he would not perhaps have ventured to say as much. He kept on repeating to himself the last words of the poor hunchback : “ I have had enough of it — I have had enough of it — I have had enough of it ! ” not consecutively, but from time to dime, and after intervals of gloomy thought. Presently, the noises that betoken the departure of a party of pleasure were heard in the hall without ; the chatter of female voices, and the ripple of laughter, the opening and shutting of doors, and the eager cries of Tony. Then a light footstep in the passage, and a gentle knock at the door. “ Well, my darling, we are going. I thought it right to go, lest the girls should think something w^as amiss.” His wife was looking very pale, but the smile on her sweet face was as bright as ever. It was put on for him, he knew, and had cost her not a little. “ How brave and good you are, Edith ! ” Don’t, don't talk like that, John, or I shall utterly break down,” replied she, earnestly. “ You will be at home w^hen wo come back, dear ? ” ‘‘ Yes, dear, yes. Perhaps I may come up to the mere from Bleabarrow way, when I have written my letters.” She knew that he had no letters to write, at least of any consequence, and had but little hope of his coming up to the mere. Yet she answered : “ Oh, that will be so nice, and be such a pleasant surprise to the children ! Good-bye, my darling ! ” “ Good-bye.” They kissed one another, as though they had been young lovers parting for the first time ; indeed, they had never loved one another more than since these evil days had come upon them. Then she went out, throwing back a look of loving farewell, to play her part in the gay picnic — for into such the excursion had resolved itself — while he was left a far easier task — to bear the importunate Care alone. He sat down with his head between his hands, as though with, that faithful partner, Hope DR. CURZON^S LITTLE ACCOUNT III itself liad fled. It is no exaggeration to say that he looked older by some years in those few moments ; for the sense of irremedi- able loss — of separation for ever — was heavy npon him. His step, when he rose up and crossed the hall to fetch his hat, was slow and hesitating, like the gait of an old man. Once ont of doors, however, the open air revived him ; the scent and beanty of the garden flowers, the bright sunshine, and the loveliness of the surrounding landscape, had also their effect. When Nature frowns, it is certain that our wretchedness is thereby intensified. A November evening, with thick fog abroad, has probably turned the scale, in some desponding wretch’s mind towards death, when, under brighter external influences he would have lived on ; and Nature’s smiles have life in them, even when they seem to mock our misery. More-; over, in Dalton’s case, there was physical action demanded of him, which is, above all things, the foe and conqueror of despondency. Without calling for the assistance of a servant, he unfastened the smallest craft among the little flotilla in the boathouse, and rowed himself — not without the necessity of putting forth some skill and strength — across the tawny, foam- flecked river ; and if his boat had come to grief in that whirling stream, he would have fought and struggled for his life, no doubt, though existence had become so hateful to him. Then, when he landed on the other side, and had fastened his boat to shore, there were the steep crags to be climbed, the call on wind and muscle, and the air of the hill-top, crowning all. For the moment his eye drank in the glorious prospect at his feet, without that consciousness of misfortune which sur- rounded him now, as with an atmosphere, through which all things came to his senses, deadened and dull. Before him lay the long, deep valley of Sanbeck, an unsung Dovedale, w^hich Kitty was wont to affirm she had discovered. At all events, until the Daltons came to Riverside, there had been no great enthusiasm displayed about its beauties. It ran very steeply down from the moorland mere to the great plain of Bleabarrow, taking a sharp turn before it debouched upon it, so that the whole valley seemed complete in itself, and shut out from the external world. But for the height of its hills, and the length to which its windings extended, which made it appear even narrower than it really was, it might have been called a dell, so solitary and self-contained it was. Yet a road which could be almost termed a highway traversed each side of the valley, crossing it near its head, where the ravine was only a narrow II2 FALLEN FORTUNES. fissure, wliicli a few miles on grew wide and deep, and in which an imprisoned stream ceaselessly bewailed its fate. At the bridge was the hamlet, consisting only of the little grey church and a score of scattered cottages of stone, and perched on the spurs of the hills were two or three farms. As Dalton rapidly descended, he passed by one of these homesteads, which, as it will have an interest for us hereafter, may here have its line of description. Like its neighbours, it utterly ignored landscape ; the side that looked — or would have looked, had it had windows — upon the valley was a long barn built of stone, and lit with long slits in the masonry such as are common in old fortresses. The dwelling-house was very ancient, with a porch covered with a luxuriant creeper, that also stretched over the whole edifice, half hiding it in tangled greenery. In front was a paved court- yard, with the barn on one side, and on the other a terraced garden of small extent, but very full of the commoner and more odorous sort of flowers. There were yew trees in it, which gave it a quaint rather than a funereal aspect ; for the place was altogether bright and cheerful, and singularly clean. There were no stables near it — nothing but the barn and another farm building, under which entrance was given to “ the l!^ook ” — as the house was called — by a picturesque archway. If its builder had been a man of modern taste, many things would doubtless have been changed for the better ; but taking it for what it was, a farm-house of three centuries old, it was singularly free from all that was unsightly or unsavoury. Of the beauties of San- beck, indeed, its indwellers could see nothing ; but they had their garden, and their courtyard with its sundial, and even a little fountain upon the terrace — altogether a very sufficient home prospect ; and they had only to pass through the archway to behold a scene that few localities could rival. The place was not now used as a farm at all, but was at present in the occupa- tion of a wealthy yeoman, who had retired from business, and was well pleased to pass the evening of his days in the spot where he had made the rays to gild it. Mr. Jonathan Landell — or “ Old Joe,” as he was usually termed by his neighbours — ^had a curious passion for the collecting of ancient books, of which he was said to possess a surprising number ; but with what object this store of learning — or rather the materials for it — had been acquired was doubt- ful. By some it was stoutly maintained that Old Joe had, from very small beginnings in the literary line, become one of the greatest of living scholars ; while by another party it was DR, CURZON^S LITTLE ACCOUNT. ”3 teerted with, equal confidence that the old gentleman knew nothing of his hooks beyond their titles. However that might be, the Nook and its owner were each remarkable in their way ; and perhaps the peculiarity of the one reacted upon the other, and enhanced the public interest in both. If presentiments could take their rise from inanimate objects — if the room where we are to breathe our last, for example, could inform us of the fact beforehand — a new interest would be added to many things ; and could Dalton have foreseen the part that the Nook was eventually to fill in the drama of his future, or rather of the future of those dear to him, he would not have passed it by to- day with such scant notice. He had seen and admired it more than once ; but its chief impression had been made upon him through the drawings of it in his elder daughter’s sketch-book, with whom it was a great favourite, and who had taken it from every point of view. His mood of mind on this occasion, how- ever, was not one to be readily affected by the picturesque in architecture, and he pursued his way down the valley, as though the Nook had in no way differed from its neighbours. The house for which he was bound was nearly a mile beyond it, and removed a considerable distance from the road ; yet from the road, as Dalton drew near his goal, he could hear cries, not 60 much of pain, as it seemed to him, but of rage and impatience, which evidently proceeded from the doctor’s residence. The house was long and low, consisting indeed but of one story, and at the end at which it was approached an addition had been made for the reception of patients only, in the shape of a small surgery. The whole house, with the exception of this annexe^ was covered with ivy, which rendered this place of torment uncompromisingly bare and conspicuous. Its windows too, in order that abundance of light might be afforded for the pursuit of science, were much larger than those of the other rooms, and as the visitor passed by, he could hardly avoid throwing a glance into this chamber of horrors, the cries from which, though fainter, still continued. He fully expected to see some poor wretch’s limbs being sawn off without the consolations of chloro- form, or the application of the actual cautery to some shepherd bitten by a collie dog. His surprise, therefore, was considerable at perceiving the doctor alone in this apartment, pacing the room like a wild cat, and emitting terrible ejaculations. His air was wild, and one of his legs was bare, the stocking being un- gartered and down-at-heel, as in Hamlet’s case. It was impossible — coupling his appearance with his howls — to help concluding I FALLEN FORTUNES. ii4 that lie was in the same mental condition as that tinhappy prince ; and the front-door opening to his hand, as is nsnal in country places, Dalton entered the house without ceremony, and at once presented himself in the surgery. “ Good heavens, doctor, what is the matter ? ’’ “ Fire, fire ! cried the unhappy medical practitioner, holding his uncovered calf with his hand, and hobbling distractedly about the room. “ I have burned myself most infernally.” There was an odour of singed flesh in the apartment, that seemed to give corroboration to his assertion, and, so far, to attest the victim^s sanity. “ But how on earth came you to burn yourself? ” “It was that old idiot Jefferson who has done it. I hope he will feel what it is himself some day, only hotter and longer. It’s getting better now. I’m really quite ashamed to have ex- hibited such — such excitement. I fancy I must almost have screamed aloud.” “Well, yes, you almost did. But how on earth came you to take Jefferson's advice ? I should have thought you the very last man in the country to follow out any of his old-world prescriptions.” “ His prescriptions ? I should think so. He should not pre- scribe for my tom-cat. But the fact is, I was obliged to call him into consultation — the old humbug ! — with regard to Jonathan Landell up yonder. The man is dying — even Jefferson knew that ; but just to spite me, and because he knew I had no such thing as a cupping-glass in my possession, he recommended cupping. He might as well have suggested an amulet, or toad’s broth. He is a medical pagan, and believes in all the dead-and- gone divinities of science.” “ So I have always heard,” said Dalton, consolingly. “ He goes about with a cane that has salt in the head of it, and wears a muff like Dr. Batcliffe, does he not ? You have left him nobody to murder, however, in the county, as I have always been told, except a few old dowagers.” “ That is true,” said the doctor, sitting down and nursing his bare leg ; “ and it is on that very account that he has revenged himself upon me in this terrible manner. ‘ Mr. Landell,’ he said, in his pompous way, ‘ should, in my humble opinion, be cupped. I say nothing of any shortcoming in his treatment hitherto’ (hang his impudence ! think of that) ; ‘ but the time has now arrived for stringent measures.’ ” “‘Well,’ said I, wishing to humour the old fool, ^cupping DR, CURZON^S LITTLE ACCOUNT, US can’t hurt him, anyway.’ (There I was wrong ; it hurts abominably — that is, unless you are very clever at it. And I have never cupped a man in my life. Nobody ever has who is not a hundred years old). ‘ I will cup him, by all means.’ ‘‘‘Do so, do so,’ said the old humbug, in his stately way; and off he went, drawn by those half-starved cattle of his, to prescribe some other tomfoolery to somebody else. “It was not till he had gone that it struck me I had no cupping-glasses. One might as well be expected to have a crucible, or a mud-bath, ready at a moment’s notice ; and though I have no doubt Jefferson himself possesses the article — for his house is like an antiquarian museum in that way — I was not going to put myself under an obligation to him by borrowing it. So I wrote to such of my professional brethren as were most likely to own such an instrument, to ask the loan of it. I was obliged to explain the circumstances, lest they should think me out of my wits, so that it consumed much valuable time ; and, after all, only one out of ten possessed the thing I sought. “ ‘Pray keep it,’ writes he, in the letter which accompanied it, ‘ for it is of no value except as a relic of an exploded system. My grandfather used to say it required an education to learn the use of it.’ You have to keep a flame up under the glass, you see — like this — any bit of paper will do — and then, just as the flame is about to expire, you clap the thing on. Well, I had to try it upon somebody ; and since I could not persuade my groom to oblige me in the matter, I tried it upon myself. The calf of the leg seemed to be a safe place for the experiment ; and just as the flame was about to expire, as I thought, I applied the glass, which I am bound to say stuck on ; no force on earth would have moved it. The predictions of science were so far accomplished to admiration ; but the Are had not quite gone out ! There was a living flame, sir, attached to my naked flesh, with a glass over it, as though it were some precious crocus. I had to put the strongest control upon my feelings to avoid bellowing like a bull.” “You did make rather a noise, my dear sir,” said Dalton, on whom the ludicrous effect of the sconce was by no means lost, notwithstanding his melancholy mood. “Not half such a noise as you would have made,” retorted the doctor, with irritation. “ Now, just let me try it on the calf of your leg. It’s a most interesting experiment in itself, and also, incidentally, involves a great question of theology. No one who has gone through with it can ever subscribe to the ii6 FALLEN FORTUNES. doctrine of the Calvinistic religion as respects the place of the wicked hereafter. I don’t care how wicked a man has been ; he can never deserve to bear a living flame applied to any sensitive portion of his person, and stuck on so that nobody can put it out. I’ll guarantee to effect a complete revolution of religious opinion in the Scottish nation, if they will come to me without breeks and . Now, do just let me try.” The doctor’s manner was most cordial and persuasive ; you would really have imagined that he had the abolition of human error and superstition as his object, instead of that of excusing himself for the exhibition of a personal weakness. But Dalton was adamant, and grave withal. His sense of amusement had passed away ; he almost felt a disgust with himself at having been made to smile when such heavy cares were sitting on his shoulders. ‘‘ No,” said he, “ I will take your word for it, Curzon ; and I have a pain of my own, which is quite sufficient — though it may not be such torture as you describe — without being experimentalised upon.’^ ‘‘ To be sure ; I forgot your toothache,” answered the doctor, cheerily. He had rolled back the leg of his trousers, and began to assume his professional air. ‘‘ I wish I could forget it, ” continued Dalton. It tormented me all night. You said you would give me a little laudanum for it.” “ Well, laudanum is a bad thing to take to — as indeed are all things to make one sleep, notwithstanding some of them have such fine names, and are so ‘highly recommended by the faculty.’ I should suggest eau-de-cologne and sal- volatile in warm water to allay the pain, or — if you are really resolved not to eject so unpleasant a tenant — perhaps a little myrrh.” “ Put me up what you please, but some laudanum as well, in case the milder remedies should not relieve the pain.” “ Very good.” The surgery was lined with bottles, as a library is lined with books ; and the doctor proceeded to take down one or two, and pour out a little of their contents into a small phial. Dalton watched him with an air less careless than abstracted, and pre- sently said, gravely : “ After all, Curzon, this is not the matter about which I have come to consult you, but something very different, and much more serious.” “ All right, my good friend. I am ready to give you my best attention ; but just let me premise that patients generally — even sensible ones, like yourself — are apt to consider matters DR. CURZON'S LITTLE ACCOUNT. 117 very serious when they are not so. It is the tendency of human nature to exaggerate our physical woes.’’ ‘‘ For instance, when you blister yourself with a bit of tinder,” said Dalton, forcing a smile. “ Well, well, I am quite ready to be confuted ; but still I have had warnings that are not, I am sure, to be lightly regarded. What I am about to tell you is, of course, in the strictest confidence, and to be revealed to no one, not even to my wife.” “ My dear Dalton, a doctor’s shop is the same as the confes- sional, except that folks tell us a deal more than they ever tell the priest. Of course I shall be mum as a mouse. Now about these warnings. You think you have got heart disease of o >> course r “ How did you know that ? ” exclaimed Dalton, with extreme surprise. “ Do I look like a man in that way ? Have you observed it for yourself of late ? ” Not a bit of it,” was the doctor’s cool reply. ‘‘ But everybody who has ‘ warnings ’ imagines them to proceed from the same cause — the heart. Similarly, everybody who spits blood — as happens to about five people out of every six in the course of their lives — sets it down to lungs.” “ But I am quite sure there is something wrong — and very much wrong ” ‘‘Pardon me,” interrupted the doctor; “you cenit he sure! Doctors cannot always be sure — unless it is some such old fool as Dr. Jefferson — and patients never. Now, please to describe your symptoms.” “Well, I have been sufferi:&g for some time ” “ How long ? It is above all things necessary to be explicit.” There was a pause ; Dalton was searching his memory. “ About six months back I began to be affected with palpita- tions — an uneasy sense of movements in the heart. These have increased in frequency and violence. Of late they have given me, occasionally, great pain. At such times I have felt a stupendous oppression, and even a sensation of impending death.” “Have you ever read about heart disease in any medical work ? ” inquired the doctor. Dalton hesitated. “ Well, yes, I believe I have.” “So do I,” said the doctor, coolly; “and I should have believed it, even if you had said ‘No.’ I sometimes wish that all our professional books were tabooed to the public, as the Bible used to be to laymen. They have done more harm by putting morbid fancies into people’s heads than they have done ii8 FALLEN FORTUNES. good in healing their real diseases. I would not have them chained to a church table, because all the women go there, and would be sure to read them ; but I would have them written in dog-Latin, so that neither the learned nor unlearned should be able to make them out, but only doctors.^’ “ What I have read, however, only corroborates what I have felt,’’ said Dalton, gravely. ISTo doubt, my dear sir ; but it is astonishing how these things seem to suggest themselves, when they are, in fact, suggested. However, I have a little instrument here which is very truthful, and little apt even to make a mistake. ‘ Prithee, undo this button,’ as Lear says. Open your waistcoat.” Dalton did as was required, and the doctor applied his stetho- scope, putting his head on one side, like a sagacious magpie, and listening attentively. Who has not at one time or another of his life been thumped about, and bidden to take deep breaths, to cough, and all the rest of it, with a human ear glued to his chest ? It is even less necessary to describe than vaccination, since some people, rather than submit to the latter operation — common fate of mortals though it be — prefer to pay half- sovereign penalties and to catch the small -pox. “ Have you had any anxieties of late, Dalton ? ” The doctor was still engaged in thumping when he put this inquiry, so he could not see how the other’s pale face flushed. “ You need not reply to that question unless you please,” continued the investigator, “for I have already been informed that it is so.” “ Who can have told you, since nobody knows of them but myself?” inquired Dalton, quickly. “ The stethoscope. How you can button up your waistcoat.” “ Then I suppose I was right in concluding that I must at least take care of myself ? ” “ All people who have reached middle life may say as much as that, my good sir,” returned the doctor, quietly. “ Yes ; but I am conscious that there is something amiss. Pray do not hesitate to tell me if it be so.” “ I do not find anything organically amiss.” “But functionally you do ? ” “ I did not say so. You are getting into the medical books again.” “Well, I will ask you one question, to which I desire to have a simple ‘ Yes ’ or ‘ Ho.’ Will you give me that plain answer ? ” DR. CURZON'S LITTLE ACCOUNT. 1 19 ‘‘ I shall treat you as a sensible man, you may be sure. It is not always well to give a patient such an answer. It is very seldom judicious so to do — in the case of women, for example ; though there are some women, like your wife, who are better able to bear it than most men.’' “ Then you agree with me that my case is really serious ? ” “ Is that the question to which you required the simple ‘Yes’ or ‘No?’” “No. I wish to know whether you are not of opinion that I am likely Well, I will put it less strongly. After what I have told you, and what you have discovered for yourself, would you be greatly surprised to hear of my sudden death at any moment ? ” “ I should not be greatly surprised.” “ Thank you. That is what I thought.” “ Most people situated as you are — with just the best wife and children in the world, so far as I have seen — would say, ‘ That is what I feared,’ Mr. Dalton.” “I have thought about it too much of late to feel fear,” said Dalton, gravely. “ There are some presentiments, I venture to think, that are not merely fanciful.” “ There are some, indeed, that work out their own fulfilment, and therefore which should not be encouraged,” put in the doctor, with still greater seriousness. “May I ask, Mr. Dalton, if your life is insured ? — I have startled you, which is just what should be avoided in these cases. Pray forgive my stupid blundering. It is insured, is it not ? ” “ Yes, it is insured, though only for a sum comparatively small.” “ Just so. I only asked the question because incidental cir- cumstances so much Pcftect these cases. Now, you must oblige me, before you leave, by taking at least a glass of wine and a sandwich.” “ But I have only just breakfasted.” “ Yes, but you have since then had a walk over the crags. It is very necessary to one in your condition — or supposed condition, for I have by no means issued your death-warrant, remember — to give the system constant support.” “ But really ” “ Nay ; you wish to keep strong and well, I suppose ; you are not enamoured of your complaint — if you have one — as some invalids are. You shall have sonie lunch while I eat my dinner,” 120 FALLEN FORTUNES, With that the doctor led the way into another room, where his simple mid-day meal was spread, which mainly consisted of a joint of cold roast-beef. The two sat down to this, and began talking of indifferent subjects — if anything in the doctor’s case, who was wont to throw his whole being into every topic of discussion, could be said to be indifferent. Dalton talked but little, and ate, as it seemed, rather to occupy himself than because he had any appetite. “ I am afraid you find this beef a little tough,” observed his host, apologetically. “ Not at all,” replied the other. On the contrary, I thought it remarkably tender.” “ Then it seems to me, however right you may be as to your heart, my good friend, that you have rather exaggerated your toothache.” Dalton looked up with a flush of anger, but his host appeared to be too busily engaged in mastication to observe it. “ I didn’t recommend the pickles,” he went on, coolly, be- cause hot things, they say, are bad for a tender tooth.” “ Everything is bad for it, as it seems to me,” answered Dalton, with a laugh that only partially concealed his irritation. ‘‘ However, I have no doubt your science will effect a cure. If you will allow me, I will take that mixture home with me, by-the-bye — and likewise the laudanum.” “By all means,” answered his host ; “ I will just go and put them up for you while you take another glass of wine.” The doctor was some time absent ; yet Dalton did not take his wine, but sat with his head forward in an attitude of eager expectation, listening : the house was small, and the partitions thin, and he could hear the other moving about in the surgery, the chink of bottles, and even — as he fancied — the pouring of some liquor into a phial, as he had already seen the other pour it. But as the returning steps came along the passage, the cloud cleared off his face, and it once more wore a smile. “ My dear doctor, this is a plot ; you must certainly have intended me to take more liquor than is good for me, that you have left me so long with your wine. What have you been about ? ” “ Nay, my dear sir, a half -starved apothecary who sells poisons must be careful of his measures. Here is the mixture and the laudanum ; pray be careful of it, for there is enough there to kill half the parish.” “ Thanks,” s^id Dalton, disposing the neat little parcels in his DR, CURZON^S LITTLE ACCOUNT 121 pockets. “ There is but one thing more, Curzon : it is a delicate matter ; but between old friends there need be no fanciful scruples. Please to let me know what I am indebted to you ? “ What ? To Robert Curzon, P.R.C.S. John Dalton, Esq., for attendance upon his wife and family. Pooh, my dear sir ; that will go in at Christmas. There is nothing we doctors dislike so much as going into details ; it is as bad as taxing a bill is to an attorney.’^ “But I particularly wish this little matter to be separate. I would not, for example, have my wife know that I came to con- sult you professionally on any account, and I have other reasons for secrecy.*^ “Yerygood. You are a rich man, or I would not take a penny. Let me see, if I were Dr. Jefferson, I should call it a special appointment, and charge you two guineas, which would cover the cold beef and sherry nicely : being only a general practitioner, I don’t think I can screw more than one out of you.” “I can’t imagine how you doctors manage to live,” said Dalton, producing his purse. “You seem to me to take more pains for less money than any other class of men.” “But this is two pounds. I am afraid the whole valley has not so much change in it as you will require.” “ But then there is the mixture, Curzon.” “Ray; that can surely go down in the general account, my good sir. Pride is not my w^eakness, but I can’t sell you three- pennyworth of sal-volatile across my dinner- table.” “ Why, what is the difference ? I am astonished at so sensible a man being so thin-skinned. Row we are quits for to-day’s business, so let us say no more about it.” “ What ? Do you wish it to be understood, then, that I have sold you eighteen-shillings-and-ninepence-worth of laudanum ? Mantua’s law is death to anyone who sells one-half of the dose. If you are really serious in wishing to keep the whole transac- tion private, here is the proper change. I wish it was the general custom among folks in this neighbourhood to settle with their doctor so promptly.” The settlement was indeed ridiculous, considering the small- ness of the amount, and the relations between the two men, and they both endeavoured to treat it as more or less of a joke. But as a matter of fact, the affair was very embarrassing to both parties, and much more so than if they had been dealing with j^nj- importa4t sum. Doctor and patient were equally pleased 122 FALLEN FORTUNES, when the interview was ended, and they took leave of one another at the front door ; the former to start upon his “ rounds on horseback, which his friend’s visit had unusually delayed ; and the latter to return to Riverside by the way he had come. ‘‘ I have left no footsteps behind me,” muttered Dalton to himself with a sigh of satisfaction, as he strode quickly up the valley ; “ and I have persuaded Curzon to believe the thing I wished. What rubbish is all this pretence of science, who can have a theory thus foisted upon her as easily as a conjurer forces a card upon a child.’^ CHAPTER XV. ON BOARD “ THE MARY.” ‘‘ Jenny,” whispered Jeff, as he walked beside the little invalid carriage, in which she was wont to be conveyed when there was the least risk of fatigue, on its way to the boat-house, ‘‘what do you think of Holt’s get-up ? ” “ It is ravishing,” was her enthusiastic reply. The remark was called forth by a suit of rough blue cloth, adapted for marine purposes, and a hard shiny hat, such as one expects to see surrounded by a ribbon, embroidered with the name of a ship. It was not, however, so surrounded ; and the hue of the clothes, though of unmistakable azure, was very modest in tone. Mr. Holt’s attire would, in short, perhaps have altogether escaped censure, had it not been so undeniably new ; but as it was, it gave the idea of premeditation. This gentle- man, as Jenny had averred, had a special suit for every occasion; not only morning- dress and evening- dress, and driving-dress and riding-dress, but even a particular attire for croquet ; and now it appeared that he had not come wholly unprovided with even a yachting costume. So far as his tailor could do it, he vv^as, in fact, equal to any situation that country life could place him in, and it was obvious that he had been in none of them — nor in the suits to match— before. “ There is one thing,” continued Jenny, “ that I must see before I die, and for which reason I wish it was winter. I yearn to behold that man in scarlet, with top-boots and a hunting- cap : that he has got them in his portmanteau, only waiting the opportunity for production, I am confident.” “ He would look even more like a monkey then than he does now,” observed Jeff, contemptuously. “ Not a bit of it. You wrong hini there, Jeff, He would only ON BOARD THE MARY:^ 123 look too new, like the gentlemen sportsmen who ride on horse- back in the tailors^ shops in Regent Street. What irritates me is his being always so spick and span, so offensively pat with the occasion. I think, however, Mrs. Campden likes it.’’ ‘‘ Why on earth should she like it ? ” “ Well, she feels it a personal compliment that he should have made such extensive preparations for his visit to Riverside. His only mistake has been that he did not provide a suit of Lincoln green for the archery-ground.” Certainly his hostess seemed unusually affable to Mr. Holt as he walked between her and Mrs. Dalton down to the river, while Mr. Campden preceded them with the two girls. “ Have you ever been in a steam-yacht ? ” inquired she, with an approving glance at his metal buttons. ‘‘ Ho, madam.” He always called her “madam,” and she was not displeased at it. It seemed to mark the difference of social rank between one of her exalted position in the county and a mere stockbroker. “ I have been in other yachts often enough ; indeed, I may say too often, for I am a very indifferent sailor. I have several friends who are yachtsmen, but it is not everybody who can offer one a cruise in a steam-yacht.” “ I think you will find the Mary very comfortable,” answered Mrs Campden, languidly. “It is named, as you may guess, after my daughter. She christened it, when it was first launched, with a bottle of the best champagne. For my own part, I thought it very extravagant, but my husband would have it so.” “ It should not have been dry champagne,” said Mr. Holt, with a little smile. “Why not?” inquired Mrs. Campden. “It would have been better — because cheaper — than Clicquot.” “Ho doubt, no doubt ; I was only referring to the irrelevance of christening a ship, you know, an article intended for the water, with dry champagne.” “ Oh, I see,” said Mrs. Campden, coldly ; “ it was a joke.” “ It was a very little one,” said Mr. Holt, apologetically : then, sensible that he had made a quotation not exactly from the classics, he blushed, and with great earnestness asserted that he was entirely of his hostess’s opinion as to the wicked waste of using Clicquot for any such ridiculous ceremony as christening a vessel. “ There was, however, nothing ridiculous about christening 124 FALLEN FORTUNES. the observed Mrs. Campdei], chillingly. Lord Wapshot — who is our lord-lieutenant — was so good as to honour the occasion with his presence ; and we had three or four hundred guests in a great tent, from Edgingtons’, upon the lawn.” “ It must have been a splendid spectacle,” said Mr. Holt, respectfully. But the lady of the house was not to be mitigated ; she had been joked with by a stockbroker, and was resolved to resent it with becoming severity. “ My dear Edith,” said she, addressing her other companion, “ what a pity it is your husband cannot accompany us this morning : there is nobody like him for making an expedition of this kind go off.” “He said he would perhaps join us in the course of the after- noon,” said Mrs. Dalton. “ I am sure he regrets not being able to come, as much as you are good enough to say you regret his absence.” “ Well, I don’t quite agree with you there, Edith,” answered the hostess, drily. “ I must confess that I think, if Mr. Dalton wanted to come, he would have come. What do you say, Mr. Holt ? Do you think that he is so wrapped up in business as to allow it to interfere with what is really more pleasant to him ? ” Mrs. Campden was one of those uncompromising women who, if they were common, would make social life intolerable. If not absolutely delighting in battle, she would not go a hair’s- breadth out of her way to avoid it ; she knew that she would get no assent from Mrs. Dalton, yet if she had been alone with her, it is probable that she would still have hazarded the same opinion ; as it was, she turned to her male guest, reckoning confidently that he would purchase his own forgiveness at the sacrifice of his friend. Here, however, she was mistaken. “ Indeed, madam, I cannot agree with you. Mr. Dalton has not only an aptitude for business, which, considering he has only taken to it comparatively late in life, is surprising, but I have never known him postpone any matter of importance to mere pleasure.” Mrs. Campden sniffed incredulously. “ Ah, you men always hang by one another,” she said, “ when one comes to talk of the great art and mystery called business, which you would have us believe no woman can understand ; but I have known some very ordinary people who have succeeded in it uncommonly well.” Poor Mr, Holt ! he really looked very “ ordinary ” when ON BOARD ‘‘ THE MARY. «2S she said that. He would have flattered himself, if it had been possible, that she was alluding to Mr. Campden ; but the glance with which she accompanied her remark made that impossible. He hoped at least to meet with gratitude from Mrs. Dalton, to win whose favour he had thus boldly defied their hostess in de- fending Dalton; but she only favoured him with a forced smile. The whole subject of business in connection with her husband was painful to her ; she felt, too, that he needed no defence, and least of all from Mr. Richard Holt. By this time they had reached the boat-house, from which they were to be rowed to the yacht, which was waiting for them, with her steam up, in mid-stream. It was a beautiful craft, fitted up solely with an eye to comfort. The smoke and steam, and all the disagreeables, were confined to the after-part of the vessel ; and the fore-part, consisting of a raised deck and highly decorated cabin, was admirably adapted for a party of pleasure. Upon the deck they all took their seats, except Mr. Campden, to whom confinement of any sort was disagreeable, and who paced up and down, not so much like a sea-captain on his marine domain as a hyena in a cage. It was very good-natured of him to have proposed the expedition, for it was not at all to his taste. He would have much preferred to be roaming about his territorial possessions with an axe in his hand, cutting down trees at random, to which occupation a man who has exchanged town for country, late in life, is pretty sure to condemn himself. He was wont to term it “ thinning the timber, until Dalton had given another name to this amusement of his friend — raising money on the estate.” The river- voyage was very beautiful, with craggy hills on one side, and on the other rich meadows and woodlands, which ‘‘ marched,” as Mrs. Campden took occasion to remark, “with the Riverside property ; ” but it was of short duration. In a little while they reached the lake, a broad sheet of open water, with no great picturesqueness to recommend it. Bleabarrow mere is inferior both in grandeur and loveliness to even the least attractive of the Cumberland or Westmoreland lakes ; it is high placed, but the shores are low and barren. It is, in fact, surrounded by moorland. When the first ebullition of spirits that always accompanies the start upon a pleasure-trip had subsided, even the young people began to feel a sense of bore- dom. It is possible that salt-water may have an enlivening efiect — indeed, it must be so, or only the very poorest persons, with something solid to gain by it, would surely commit them- 126 FALLEN FORTUNES. selves twice to a long voyage — but it is certain that expeditions upon fresh-water, unless it be on a river, when you can land if you please, soon become excessively tedious. People get tired of one another’s company afloat in one-tenth of the time that they do on shore. The air and the water together have also a sedative effect upon that large class of persons who are charitably described as having no great resources within themselves ” — in plain English, who do not know what it is to think. In half-an-hour, Mrs. Campden was giving more assents by nods to the opinions expressed by her companions than she had given by words for the last six months. If you had taxed her with being asleep, she would doubtless have indignantly denied it ; but it was true, nevertheless. Her husband, who openly confessed that he did not care for scenery,” was conversing, cigar in mouth, with the ship’s engineer about vertical and horizontal movements. Mrs. Dalton, who sat beside her hostess, was not, indeed, like her, in the land of dreams, but she was scarcely conscious of what was taking place around her; her thoughts were busy with the sad future that was awaiting — and so immediately — her dear ones, but of which they had as yet received no hint. Their lively talk, though she heard not the words, jarred upon her ear ; their laughter smote her heart only less sorely than their misery would presently smite it. In a few days — in less than a week — they would leave Riverside for what had been their home, but which was now, in fact, no longer theirs, and then the news of their ruin must needs be broken to them. In a few months another child would be born to her — the consciousness of which is of itself depressing to most women — heir to its father’s fallen fortunes, and a new burden for them to support. Physically, she was far from well. An abiding sense of weakness was always present with her, which gave her apprehensions for the future, when her time of trial should come ; but they were not apprehensions upon hor own account. Persons of her pure, self-sacrificing sort, are the last in the world to entertain a high opinion of their own merits ; but if common sense be allowed to enter into the region of theo- logical speculation at all, they are probably conscious that things must needs be well with them when they have shuffled off this mortal coil ; that the end of their labours — even though they ignore all thoughts of reward — must needs be good and gracious ; at all events, they have no fear, save the fear of being taken from those they love, and who have need of their love. Oh, deep and terrible mystery of life, wherein such beings ON BOAI^D THE MARY.'^ I2*f as tliese suffer and perish, while the vile and selfish prosper and live on ! In Mrs. Dalton s face, indeed, could be read nothing of this ; a serene cheerfulness pervaded it, not only to common eyes, but even to those which affection had rendered keen ; but she felt herself unequal to any attempt to promote hilarity. The duty, therefore, of making the time pass agreeably devolved solely upon the “ young people and Mr. Holt, and the latter had by no means been formed by nature expressly for this vocation. “We are getting deadly dull,” said Jenny, presently, after a meritorious struggle or two to “ lift ” the conversation, which had done more harm than good, and indeed left it a corpse. “ What do you say to ‘ Lights ’ or ‘ Twenty Questions’? ” These were drawing-room games which were sometimes played at Hiverside, and with which all the party were familiar. In the former, two persons select a word of various meaning, and talk of it aloud under it various aspects, though taking ca^ not to name it, while the others guess, from the “ lights ” thus thrown upon it, what the word is. Even then it is not men- tioned ; but whoever thinks he has discovered it joins in the conversation, and is admitted into it, permanently or not, ac- cording to the correctness or otherwise of his surmise. So one by one the whole company join in, till some unhappy wight, not apt for the amusement, finds himself out in the cold, the solitary listener to a general conversation of which he does not under- stand the drift. Mr. Geoffrey Derwent, great as he was at croquet, unrivalled in the archery-ground, and by no means despicable at the billiard- table, very often found himself at “ lights ” in this unsociable position. Mr. Holt, on the other hand, though by no means good at games that require dexterity, had rather shone at “lights,” though, it is true, in a very inferior way to John Dalton, who was so ready at them, that, as Kate said, “you might just as well tell papa at once.” “ I think drawing-room games out of doors are slow,” said Jeff, decisively. “ But they can’t make us slower than we are,” answered Jenny, “ since we have come to a full stop.” “ I shall be very glad to play at ‘ lights,’ or anything else, to promote the general hilarity,” said Mr. Holt, modestly. “ That is a very large order, ‘the general hilarity,’ ” muttered Jeff to Jenny. “ It is not so much the promotion of hilarity, Mr. Holt, as it seems to me,” said she, “ as the avoidance of utter collapse that 128 FALLEN FORTUNES. we tave to provide for. We have no idea, doubtless, boW stupid we have been ourselves for the last half-hour, but every- body has noticed it in his neighbour. “I have not noticed it in you, Miss Jenny,” returned Mr. Holt, gallantly. “ I have only observed, as in Macaulay’s case, that there were occasionally ‘ flashes of silence.’ What do you say, Miss Kate ? Are you for games or no games ? ” Kate did not like Mr. Holt, but she had looked upon him with less disfavour ever since he had endeavoured to take the blame off Jeff’s shoulders in the matter of the guide race ; and she thought Jenny was hard upon the man. True, he was not quite up to the standard of* “a gentleman ; ” but that seemed to her rather a reason why they who were his superiors should deal tenderly with him. Moreover, she was resolved not to “ snub ” him, ever since Mary had dropped that unpleasant hint about his devotion to her on the night of the charades, lest her coldness should be laid to that account. Thus specially appealed to, she gave her voice for games, and they were commenced accordingly. Jenny and Mary had the word — though the two sisters would have carried on the conversation better — and the role of the rest was to listen. “ It is curious,” said Jenny, “ that you generally either see them in great numbers, or else only one at a time.” “Kay,” returned Mary, “ I have often seen two and four of them, though seldom three, when their object has been to make us good.” “ Or perhaps only goody-goody, which is quite another thing,” observed J enny. “ Mamma, however, believes in their efficacy implicitly,” said Mary. “ I hope so, my dear,” observed Mrs. Campden, awakened by this reference to herself ; and understanding dimly that she was called upon to endorse some moral or religious principle. “ I am afraid you have no right to join in our conversation, my dear Mrs. Campden,” said Jenny. “ They are playing at ‘ lights,* ” explained Kate, apologeti- cally. “My dear Kate, I am perfectly well aware of that,” returned the hostess, with dignity. It was a maxim with her not only never to own herself wrong but even mistaken. “ But you know you have not guessed it, mamma,” urged Mary; “ and it’s contrary to the rules to talk to us unless you have.” ON BOARD THE MARY. 129 Tour mother does not even keep one of them in her house, I believe,** continued the audacious Jenny, whose character was faulty in this particular — that she had no reverence for those she did not respect. She was impatient of pretence of any kind, and would rap her hostess*s knuckles as soon as she would have rapped those of anybody else. What business had the woman to insist upon it she was awake when she was asleep ? “ No,** said Mary ; “ w^e do not keep one at present, though we did so at one time.** “ Yes, that is very curious,** observed Jenny, thoughtfully. “ The poor keep none of them. The moderately rich keep one of them. The rich keep none of them ; but the very rich indeed — quite magnificent people, that is — keep lots of them.** “ This is like a riddle of the Sphinx,** exclaimed Jeff, despair- ingly. “And you are not the GEdipus to guess it,** retorted Jenny. “ As it happens, however, it is not a riddle, though I have seen it in a charade.** “ And on the stage,** said Mary. “ They look lovely on the stage.” “ Yes ; but I think the gentlemen admire them more than the ladies. I am sure, if you were to appear as one, Mary, they would admire you immensely.** Mary blushed and tittered ; and Kate put in, “ They were very useful to the ladies, however, in old times, were they not ? ** “ Who is this young person,** inquired Jenny, with icy gravity, of her coadjutor. “ Do you think she has a right to join in our private conversation ? ’* “ Let us inquire,** said Mary. “ When were they useful to ladies, miss ? ** “ In muddy weather,** rejoined Kate, and thereby established her position. There were now three to carry on the talk instead of four. “ Have you ever known them to change colour ? ** inquired Jenny, with a comical look. “No,** said Mary. “ I have known them of different colours, but never to change.** “ Nor I,** said Kate. ‘ Give us further particulars.** “ Well, I have known those to which Mrs. Campden is attached to be red, and yet occasionally not red.** “ Are they not often mentioned in romances ? ** inquired Mrs. Dalton, smiling. “ Mamma has guessed it ! ** cried Kate, delightedly. Well done, mamma ! ** K PALLEN FORTUNES, ^ 130 ‘^I am not sure,” said Jenny, severely. “We must not en-^ courage rash speculation. What writer of romance is mostly associated with them ? ” “ Sir Walter Scott.” “ Very true ; yet he has not portrayed the most popular — and the largest — of all.” “ I have got it ! ” cried Jeff, triumphantly. “ The largest of all is capital.” “ Who is this noisy youth ? ” inquired Jenny, contemptuously, “ I cannot think he belongs to us.” ‘‘Yes, he does,” persisted Jeff, stoutly; “the largest of all was apt to go to sleep a good deal. Mr. Holt has not guessed it “If Mr. Holt’s literary sympathies were confined to a single book, as yours are, Jeff,” said Kate, reprovingly, “ he would have guessed it as easily as you.” “ Oh, I see ! ” cried Mr. Holt, forgetting his humiliation in the consciousness that Kate had been kind to him. “ I cer- tainly ought to have recognised the Fat Boy.” “ I don’t see it argued Mrs. Campden, who, to do her justice, was seldom the last left in ignorance of the desired word. “ Of course a boy changes colour — though rarely, unless he’s bilious ; however much it may be expected of him, one never sees one blush.” She never missed a chance of hitting at poor Jeff ; but this time he had the advantage of her. “ The word is not quite ‘ boy,’ madam, though very like it,” explained he, with elaborate politeness ; “it is ‘ page ; ’ which, when in the form of a tract, is occasionally not read. Moderately rich people keep one ” “ I don’t think it’s at all a good word,” interrupted Mrs. Campden, curtly; “I think it stupid.” “ Oh, mamma ! ” exclaimed Mary ; “I think it’s an excellent word.” “Uncle George, do, pray, come here,” cried Jenny, who, having herself invented the word, was by no means willing to submit to the voice of detraction. “We want an independent opinion from you.” “ My dear girl, I have not possessed such a thing these twenty years,” replied Mr. Campden, coming forward with his cigar. Mrs. Campden bit her lips, and so did the young people, though from a different cause. It was with difficulty that they restrained themselves from laughter. “We want to hear your opinion of the word ‘page’ for ON BOARD ^^THE MARY: 131 lights,” continued Jenny. ‘‘ Do you think it a good word, or not ? ” “ It is not a bad word, so far as I know,” replied Mr. Campden, comically. ‘‘ Now, do be serious, Uncle George. Is it well chosen or ill chosen ? Somebody says it^s stupid.” “ I should think that was the person who had not guessed it,” observed the referee. “ Thanh you,” said Mrs. Campden, icily. It appears to me that you have not learned politeness from the society of your stoker yonder.” Good gracious ! ” exclaimed the unhappy man, how was I to know that it was you, my dear ? You are generally the very first to guess these things.” ‘‘ Please either to put your cigar out, or to return to your friend in the engine-room,” was the uncompromising reply; ‘‘ ladies do not like tobacco-smoke puffed into their faces, Mr. Campden.” “ On board steam-yachts, my dear,” rejoined he, good- naturedly, smoking is always allowed, except abaft the funnel. Nevertheless, to hear is to obey.” And with a salaam to his lady and master, intended to be eastern in its profundity, Mr. Campden retired, only to re- appear, however, in a few minutes, fresh and smiling, at the luncheon-table. Under the influence of good viands and champagne, the little company, which had been getting somewhat limp and out of spirits, soon revived. The great prescription for a water-party is what Dr. Curzon termed “ constant support ” — a luncheon should be always going; and, so far as the young people were concerned, the excursion, after all, proved a considerable success. Mrs. Dal- ton’s eyes, however, in vain swept the dreary moorland for her husband ; he came not, and, her heart foreboded, was too sad to come. It never struck her, as it would have struck some wives, that he might have “made an effort,” as she had done, and helped her to endure the happiness and laughter of the rest by his presence. Since he could not be merry, she was glad to think that he was spared the pain she suffered ; but she pined to be with him, that her love might comfort him. What was he doing all alone at Riverside ? Twice had Mrs. Campden addressed her, though, it must be allowed, in a very low voice, without diverting her attention from this melancholy thought. “ My dear Edith, are you asleep ? ” said she at last, a little sharply. 132 FALLEN FORTUNES. thousand pardons, Julia. I suppose the motion of the vessel made me drowsy.” “ It must have made you blind as well as deaf, my dear,” whispered her hostess, “ if you have not noticed the very marked attentions that somebody has been paying to your Kate all clay. Of course she is well able to take care of herself ; but, in my opinion, it is a piece of downright impertinence on his part.” “ I have observed nothing,” answered Mrs. Dalton, her deli- cate pale face flushing in spite of herself. “ Are you referring to Mr. Holt ? ” ‘‘ Well, I suppose I am not referring to Geoffrey, my dear ; that would surely be a little too absurd. I say, considering the sort of footing on which Mr. Holt has come down here — not, I must say, altogether with my approbation — as your husband’s business-friend, it is most impertinent in him to pre- sume in that way. We have every reason, however, to believe that Kate has a proper contempt for the man.” “ Well, I think we may be assured, at least, that Kate has not fallen in love with him,” said Mrs. Dalton, smiling. She had quite recovered herself now, and would have been more than a match for her hostess on such a topic a month ago. It is true she no longer felt on equal terms with her, but then the other did not know it. “ In love with him ! ” repeated Mrs. Campden, scornfully. “I should as soon have imputed to her an attachment to the footman.” “Mr. Holt is your guest, Julia,” returned Mrs. Dalton, stiffly. Her anger was not stirred upon Mr. Holt’s account at all, and Mrs. Campden knew it, and drew in her horns at once. “Well, of course the footman is an exaggeration, my dear; but the man has no sort of right to lift his eyes so high.” “ Of course such a match would be ill-assorted,” returned Mrs. Dalton. “ To begin with, there is a very great disparity in years.” “ Kay, that would surely be a trifling objection, compared with others. He is not on the same level in society, nor any- thing like it ; while, even as to his wealth, there is no knowing with these speculating people whether they may not be beggars to-morrow ; and it is no discredit to dear Kate, considering her bringing-up and reasonable expectations, if I say that she is totally unfitted for any other life than one of assured ease and affluence.” ON BOARD THE MARY. 133 ‘‘ I hope that is not so,” said Mrs. Dalton, hesitatingly. And here it was almost upon her tongue to tell why it was she hoped better things of Kate, of the necessity that had arisen that Kate and all her children should fit themselves for quite another life than one of affluence ; but her companion’s impatience cut her short. ‘‘ Oh, nonsense, Edith. I do sincerely trust you will never encourage her to throw herself away upon a poor man. Indeed, I know no one — except perhaps my own daughter — less likely to be happy with such. Of course riches cannot insure content- ment ; but it is quite as certain that poverty, when it falls upon those who have been used to riches, produces discontent, peevish- ness, coldness of heart, and, in the end, often downright dislike for those — even when they are not in fault — with whom we are compelled to live. There is a deal of nonsense talked on the other side of the question ; but it is rather a suspicious circum.- stance that all the eloquence in favour of poverty comes from people who are either very rich, or not in a position to feel the want of money. You never hear a man with a large family, for example, preaching up the delights of a small income.” “But when you had a small income yourself, Julia — or one comparatively small — you were just as happy as you are at present.” It was now Mrs. Campden’s turn to blush, which she did very violently, though somewhat partially. She was one of those women who blush in patches, and especially on the forehead, the ears, and the tip of the nose. “ Of course, we have had our day of small things, Edith, as I have never sought to conceal ; but that was before we occupied our present position in ” — she was going to say “ the county,” but she modestly exchanged it for — “ society. Having once attained to that, it would be a great bitterness to fall even to the place that I once occupied, perhaps contentedly enough.” “ Yet you would surely not dislike, on that account, those with whom you were compelled to live — your husband, for example — even though, as you put it, he might have been the cause of your calamity ? ” “ I honestly tell you, Edith, I should like him none the better for it ; and should not certainly expect that Mary would have the same respect for him. A man who, having once established himself and family, risks, I do not say their means of livelihood — for that would be downright selfish wickedness — but their (I know no other word for it) ‘ position’ by speculation, loses not only 134 FALLEN FORTUNES. their money, but their dutiful affection and regard, and, in my opinion, deserves to lose them. Of course Mr. Holt yonder, with no family ties, may do as he pleases ; but what would the world say of your husband, for example, if he allowed himself to be persuaded by him to enter into any dangerous enter- prise ? ” “Well, what would the world say ? ’’ inquired Mrs. Dalton, looking quickly up into her companion’s face. “ Why, it would say some very hard things,” answered the other, not without some signs of discomposure. “ Even in a suppo- sititious case, one would not like to say what things ; but my point is, that though yourself might forgive him, your children would endorse what would be said.” “ And in your opinion they would be justified in so doing ? ” asked Mrs. Dalton, coldly. “ In my opinion they would at least be excusable, Edith. You are not annoyed with me, I hope, for speaking my mind. I am taking, of course, only a general case. I am quite sure Mr. Dalton is the very last man in the world to commit such a piece of folly ; but my argument is, that if anyone in his position did commit it, it would be a crime.” Here the Mary grounded, as she was accustomed to do on every other trip, some yards from her proper anchorage in the river. Taking into account the interest of money sunk in the purchase, and the expense of her maintenance, each of these rare excursions to Bleabarrow mere cost her owner about five- and-twenty pounds. But his wife, at least, did not begrudge it. Ho other family in the county could boast of the possession of a steam-yacht, except the Campdens. CHAPTER XVI. TO BE OR NOT TO BE ? When John Dalton reached the head of -Sanbeck Valley, there were two courses open to him ; either to keep straight on along the east road, which was soon merged into a bridle-path along the moor that led to Bleabarrow Mere ; or to return to River- side by the way he came. It had been his intention to join the party on board the steam -yacht ; but he now carried about with him that which caused his heart to beat so wildly at the very thought of his wife and children, that he could not trust him- self to meet them. It is always open to the wretched — those at least who are not in prison — to end their woes by rope or razor ; TO BE OR NOT TO BE? 135 but it is not so easy to use those remedies. But onee one is possessed of a few drops of poison, the case becomes very simple : a dose of medicine is not difficult to swallow. We have the key of the next world in our pocket, and one turn of the hand admits us. One step from the death-bed, And one from the bier, And one from the charnel, And one Oh, where ? says the poet. But, for John Dalton, even those few steps were now shortened — if he only so willed it. Though the matter only respected his own fate, he was filled with a tremendous sense of power. He had but to lift his hand, and the secret that has defied mankind to pierce it since the world began lay within his grasp. For the moment he felt no inclination to use his advantage ; but he felt immensely flattered in the possession of it. Thoughts of the Great To-come had, of course, occa- sionally occurred to him, but only in that conventional and abstract form in which they present themselves to ninety-nine hundredths of his fellow-creatures ; familiarity with them had certainly bred no contempt for it in his mind ; and now he could think of little else. He had climbed the crags, and w^as looking around him in all directions save one — his face was studiously averted from the long blue lake, on which the yacht, though distant, was distinctly visible. The very world seemod to be at his feet, and to afford him the opportunity of a comprehensive Farewell. How exquisitely beautiful looked the tranquil valley from which he had just ascended ; how peaceful were the hours men passed in it, and how contented, to all seeming, were they with their lot ! Old Joe Landed, of the Hook yonder, was dying, it seems, and doubtless sorry to die ; while he (Dalton) was hale and strong enough, yet weary of his life. How cruel and unjust seemed the ways of — well, of Fate. He did not like to say “ of Providence,” though we use that term itself to avoid saying “ of God.” It was impossible, however, to smooth matters over with him- self now ; he must needs face the truth in theory, as, without doubt, if he put his design into effect, he would have to face it in fact. If God was cruel and unjust in this world, might He not also be so in the next ? The “ to be, or not to be ? ” of Hamlet is self-applied by every man in Dalton's case, whether he has heard of Hamlet or not. There are many considerations, but the gist of the matter lies in a nutshell. As to what men say ^ FALLEN FOR TUNES. 136 of suicide generally, that did not disturb him ; he was too near the thing itself to be moved by the cant of those who have only regarded it from a distance, and with no reference to themselves. It is “ cowardly,” they say ; whereas it indeed requires the extremest kind of courage — the courage of despair. They might ?just as well call a man a “ coward ” for going to the dentist’s and getting a raging tooth drawn, instead of letting it rage on. The topic is one of those upon which men have agreed together to talk rubbish. Even Shakespeare has told us that the Al- mighty has fixed His canon against self -slaughter, though whence he derived the information he has left untold. At the same time, that it is forbidden by implication, is true enough ; and indeed it is very literally “ a-flying in the face of Provi- dence,” since a more violent protest against the lot that has been assigned to us, or a greater reflection upon Him who imposed it upon us, can hardly be imagined. This last consideration, however, was not that which troubled Dalton most. Strange as it may appear to superficial observers of human nature, morality in such cases commonly makes a better fight of it — intercedes more eloquently for the precious life — than religion itself. Dalton thought comparatively little of the question which theologians have affirmed to be the most pressing of all, “Will this be displeasing to the Supreme Being or not ? ” but was greatly disturbed by an analogous though not necessarily a synonymous consideration, “ Is this right ? ” and this again resolved itself presently into a very concrete form, “ Will it be committing fraud against the Falm Branch Insur- ance Society ? ” It was above all things necessary — in order to spare the feelings of his wife and children — that his death should be attributed to natural causes ; and yet in that case they would reap an advantage to which they had obviously no right. At one time, as we have seen, this consideration had been sufficient to cause him to put aside the notion of self- destruction ; and if it had not been for Mr. Campden’s conver- sation with him respecting the Palm Branchy it is probable he would never have reverted to it. Even the chairman of the Board of Directors had not been able to persuade him that he had a right to derive advantage from a policy one of the condi- tions of which he had deliberately violated ; but if, to meet their own purposes, the Society should waive their objections, he would surely — so he endeavoured to persuade himself — be in a different moral position. And that they would do so he had yery good reason to believe, The chairman had announced hia TO BE OR NOT TO BE? 137 intention of pressing that course of conduct upon his colleagues even in case of a stranger ; and he was not likely to be less strenuous where the interests of a friend — if the dead can be said to have interests — were involved. Moreover, that he would be committing no fraud — in the way of deception, at least — so far as Mr. Campden was concerned, and through him the Com- pany, he felt assured. It was a trifling circumstance, yet one which, in the event of his sudden death, would at once have an immense significance in the eyes of his host, that he had never mentioned to him, while talking of that very topic, that he him- self was insured in the Falm Branch, It was perhaps by acci- dent that, when the subject was first started, he had been reticent upon this point ; but while the discussion was proceeding he had reflected on the matter and maintained his secret by design. Now, supposing that he should die very suddenly — much more under circumstances that would suggest suspicion — it must needs at once strike Mr. Campden as very remarkable that his friend had been silent upon such a point ; from what Dalton knew of the other’s character, he was confident that he would feel it his duty to communicate his conjecture to the Insurance Society ; and that having thus satisfied his scruples, he would do his best, both on public and private grounds, to procure the payment of the policy to Mrs. Dalton and her children. By these arguments Dalton had silenced, if he had not convinced, the voice of conscience, as respected the Palm Branchy and had so surmounted his chief difficulty. For to have put an end to himself, with the knowledge that in so doing he was committing a fraud, would have really been an impossi- bility with him ; the like reflection has probably kept scores of wretched men in this world, and will continue to do so ; but the thought that their fraud may not be successful, and their policies be lost, has restrained hundreds. In spite of the reprehensible circumstances in which we now find him placed, John Dolton would have been a better man, even though he hurries his exit, than the majority of those who wait decorously on the stage for the fall of the curtain. It was the suddenness of his calamity which had overthrown his judg- ment, and prevented perhaps his fertile mind from suggesting some less tremendous expedient for escaping from his sea of troubles than that of flight. Nor was self, it must be allowed, the promoter of his rash design. If his mind were not now occupied by his beloved Edith and her children, it was because he did not dare to dwell upon that subject ; his heart, which FALLEN FORTUNES. 138 was not dismayed afc the thought of that dread leap in the dark, melted like wax at the thought of them ! He was not leaving them, as many a self-slayer does, to whom the epithet “ coward’^ is applicable enough, alone and unprotected, deserted by the man within whose power it was to win their bread. His loss would be a gain to them every way ; they would ride more buoyantly on the wave of life for his removal ; and many a friendly sail would assist their little bark, from which they could have accepted no such assistance had he himself — very literally “ a pilot to the shores of Nothing ” — been on board of her. All these reflections occurred to him confusedly, hurrying across his mind one after the other, like flying clouds over a hillside, but all tending to one point. It is but seldom that such a dread resolve as Dalton had in fact as good as come to, is determined upon by gradual steps. Mr. Campden, I think, somewhat overrode his hobby — otherwise, a trustworthy nag enough — in striking out the six months’ proviso, as respected suicide, from the regulations of his Palm Branch. In the mood in which John Dalton now found himself, he would have insured in half-a-dozen such unprotected ofiices, and killed him- self next day ; but he could not — in fact, though the opportunity was open to him, he did not do so — have insured his life with the intention of putting an end to it after the expiration of half a year. It is not so easy as some philosophers would persuade us to look certain death in the face for months, and yet retain our equanimity, even when our friends are assisting us to do so ; but to play the hypocrite to those dearest and nearest to us, to persuade them that all is well with us, while our inward eye is fixed upon the gaping grave, is a role beyond that of most actors. From what he had already experienced, Dalton, at all events, was well convinced that such a sustained effort was beyond his powers. If the thing was to be done, it was not only best but necessary to do it quickly. Upon one thing Dalton had long made up his mind — namely that the cata- strophe should not take place beneath the roof which he still called his home. The improbability of his decease being attri- buted to his own hand would, he justly concluded, be increased by its occurrence at a time when he was a guest upon a visit of pleasure ; and though this was hard upon the Campdens, his necessities were such that he must needs be hard on some one. Their home would be made hateful to Edith and the girls, were it made the scene of such a tragedy j whereas the folks at TO BE OR NOT TO BE? 139 Riverside would soon get over it. He pictured to himself, with something like a smile, how his hostess would inveigh against him for his want of consideration for her feelings, if she could have looked into his mind at this moment. Would it have a good or a bad effect, he wondered, upon her position in the county ? ” It would certainly give the house a temporary in- terest, and if his ghost should be reported afterwards to “ walk there, even quite a flavour of antiquity. He did not believe in ghosts walking, yet the fancy was sufficient to set his mind speculating on the possibility of his discontented spirit being aware of what was going on in the world after its departure. Would it be cognisant of the future of those dear to him, and note their troubles, without the capability of giving them aid ? — their dangers, without power to warn them ? In that case, there was indeed a Hell, and he would be in it. If he feared for himself at all, it was upon this account. It was surprising, even to himself, how little he was affected by those material terrors, in the reality of which he had been brought up to believe ; how much his mind still dwelt upon this world, though he stood upon the brink of the other. Though his thoughts wandered so wildly, and so far, they always returned, as doves to a dove-cote, to one small and insig- nificant topic — namely, as to when and where this thing should be enacted. The means, which had hitherto been his great difficulty, were now obtained ; and he had but to fix time and place. What scene, what hour, was the best fitted — or rather, the least unfit — for the final catastrophe ? Should it be the next morning in the library ? — to which he was still wont to retire after breakfast, upon pretext of business, though all such occupation for him was gone. In that case. Holt would probably be the first to find him, dead. Then he would tell Campden, and Campden would tell Julia, and Julia would have to break it to Edith. That would be the best plan, if he could only be sure that Holt would find him. But suppose Edith should look in upon him, under pretence, as often happened, of choosing some book to read with Tony, but in reality, as he well knew, to give him a silent caress, or whisper a word of comfort in his ear — why, that would kill her. And again, if it should happen in the smoking-room, when the others had gone to bed, and he was all alone, save for that Creator into whose visible presence, perchance, he was about to precipitate himself, would not Edith be the person who would come and look for him, alarmed by his absence, and apprehensive, perhaps, 140 FALLEN FORTUNES. of the very horror that had actually taken place ; apprehensive, but not, alas ! prepared for it ; so that the sudden shock would leave his children not only fatherless, but orphaned ! He pictured the event under a score of circumstances, to every one of which there was an objection upon the same ground : in none was it certain that the catastrophe could be broken to his wife without danger of the most fatal conse- quences. If she had been in her usual health, he could have trusted to her paramount sense of duty to preserve her under the worst disasters ; her first thought, when nature permitted her to think, would have been for the children that were still left to her, and for their sake she would have borne up — and lived on. But as it was, enfeebled by her condition, and already depressed by misfortune, it was only too probable that she might not have the power to rally from such a sudden blow at all. It was curious that not till after he had proposed and rejected many schemes, did the thought strike him, “Why should I not do it now?'^ Except for that dark spot, with a thin ribbon of dark cloud above it, on the distant mere, there was no sign of movement or of life about him. It was unlikely that he should ever find himself more alone than at that very moment. Save for the dull roar of the rapid river, hundreds of feet beneath him, and for the distant tinkle of a sheep-bell from the valley he had just left, not a sound broke the surrounding silence. If it is ever easy for a man in health, and vigour to lie down and die, it was easy for him to do so now. If ever circumstances can be said to be in favour of such a deed, they were so now. If an opportunity was ever afforded for a man to kill himself — yet to seem to others to have died in the course of nature — it was offered to him now. He looked into the future — not the future of the next world, even yet — and all things seemed to suit with his fell intent. He had just been to his doctor to consult him about a supposed heart-disease, and the doctor had as good as confirmed his own expressed suspicions that such a mischief was at work. “ I should not myself be surprised,” he had said, “if I was to hear that you had dropped down dead.” It was true that this had been wrung from him, after much press- ing, by what lawyers term “ leading questions ; ” but Curzon had not probably been aware of it, and even if he had been, when the thing had happened, he was certainly not likely to eat his words. He had but to repeat them, and there would bo surely no occasion for j)ost-mor tom investigation. The path TO BE OR NOT TO BE? 141 by wbicli Dalton bad reached the summit of the crags was very steep, tbongb it bad, in fact, put bim but a very little out of breatb ; and its ascent might easily be credited with having cost a man affected with a heart-disease — and who had been found dead on the top of it — his life. If the doctor had any doubts — if the merest scintilla of suspicion could be called such — he would certainly give them, for all reasons, in favour of “ Death from natural causes.” Dalton had parted from him, if not in high spirits, still with perfect cheerfulness ; and if he had shown despondency at any period of the interview, it had arisen, apparently, from his suspicions regarding his own health. Upon the whole, it seemed that Dalton’s expedition of that morning had procured for him a most important witness. There was indeed the absence of the laudanum from the bottle to be accounted for ; but that could be effected in two ways. Dalton could either take a draught of it, and then break the bottle with the rest of its contents in his pocket, when the breakage would be accounted for by his fall ; or, having drunk what was necessary to effect his purpose, he could fill up the bottle with water from a little spring that was close at hand. The doctor himself had stated that he had sold him laudanum enough “ to kill half the parish,” so that a very moderate quan- tity would suffice for his purpose. As for the Afterwards — he would presently be missed at home, and since he had moored the boat on the right bank of the river, it would be guessed that he had crossed over into Sanbeck, probably with the intention of calling at the doctor’s ; the very man would, there- fore, be at once communicated with on whom he mainly relied for the final safe conduct of the affair ; while in the meanwhile time would allow of misgivings and apprehensions, which, however painful in themselves, do somewhat break, to those who entertain them, the shock of calamity. The house, though at some distance, was full in his sight, in which all the degrees of suspense and wretchedness — uneasiness, dismal foreboding, and despair — were about to be inflicted by his own hand on those he died to benefit, yet he gazed on it with apathetic eyes. Death was so near to him, that feeling was already dulled by its icy presence. It was more mechanically than, as before, of resolute design, that he now kept his back turned to the moor- land lake — where the black speck was growing larger every moment, which was the steam -yacht Mary, bringing his un- suspicious dear ones home — and took the laudanum from his pocket. FALLEN FORTUNES. 14a He liad a flask fitted with a drinking- cap, and into this he poared safflcient, as he judged, of the deadly drug to efiect his purpose : placing this upon the turf, he substituted water from the spring for the liquid taken from the bottle, and replaced the latter in his pocket. Then all was indeed ready. It was astonishing, even to himself, how steady was his hand as he raised the fatal draught to his lips. If the claim of Socrates to philosophy, reflected he grimly, rested only upon his calmness in taking the hemlock, John Dalton was as good a philosopher as he. He had done his “ thinking’’ in this world, for good and all, and was wholly occupied with the matter in hand ; he only indulged himself in one surmise — which was likewise Socratic— I How long would the poison take to woik ? Would he fall at once into a deep sleep ? Would he feel pain ? Then he drank it ofl very quickly, and to the last drop — after which he care- fully washed out the drinking-cup, and returned it to its proper place. As he did so, it suddenly occurred to him that his mouth — he had said to himself his “ breath,” and then mentally cor- rected bis mistake with a smile that was very like a shudder — that his mouth would smell of the poison. He remembered that in many cases of suicide the fact was at once discovered by this simple means, and yet he had almost forgotten to take so ordi- nary a precaution. He now wetted his lips with a little wine from his flask, and took out his cigar-case. The wine and the tobacco together,” thought he, coolly, “will surely overcome the .scent of the laudanum.” But in selecting his cigar, his hand trembled excessively, for the case from which he took it had been his wife’s gift, and was embroidered by her own fingers. Almost everything that John Dalton had, of a handy or luxurious sort, had been given him upon one or other of his birthdays by his wife or children, and he was wont to use them as a matter of course. But now, as he was leaving his Edith for ever, without look or word of farewell, the touch of the silken flowers that she bad woven for him sent a pang to his heart, so keen and vivid, that he almost doubted whether it might not be already due to the poison he had swallowed. When he put the case away, how- ever, the pain went with it, and he sat down on the turf and began smoking his cigar. If he had stood up a few minutes longer, he would probably have been seen by those on board the yacht, which had by this time left the mere, and was speeding home between the river-banks. As it was, they came on — the young people still at their jests and games — opposite to, and immediately under the very crag where Dalton sat. He heard THE ANONYMOUS LETTER. 143 them, or heard something that seemed to mingle with the murmur of the river, and yet was not of it ; and, dimly curious — for his mind was clouded, and his senses only half obeyed his will — would have risen to see what it was ; his limbs, however, were numb and nerveless, and in the attempt to get upon his feet, he fell, and rose no more, CHAPTER XVII. THE ANONYMOUS LETTER. The first step of Mrs. Dalton, upon reaching home, was to go direct to the library, where she had every reason to expect that her husband would be found. She had entertained but small hope of seeing him on board the yacht ; yet, if he had left the house at all, she thought he would have kept his promise — or half-promise — to join the water-party. He was doubtless still engaged with his letters, or, more likely, still thinking his sad thoughts, under pretence of being engaged with them. Her surprise was, therefore, considerable at not finding him ; and with her, under her sad circumstances, surprise was at once followed by vague alarm. Her heart beat, not only with haste, as she went rapidly to his own chamber, and then to his smoking- room — ^to find them both unoccupied. At the door of the latter she even waited a few seconds, not so much to recover breath as to expel from her face the apprehension that she knew had gathered there. “Why, John, where on earth,’’ was the commencement of the half-laughing sentence she had formed, in the expectation of finding him in his favourite lounging chair with his cigar. But the words faded on her tongue, as she stood pale and trembling in the untenanted room. From the window she could see the very crag under which — had she but known it — he was lying, unconscious of her tender solicitude. Where on earth, indeed, was he ? Or could he be said to be on earth at all ? “ John, John ! ” The very echoes seemed to mock her, and reply “ Gone, gone ! ” in answer to her tremulous inquiry. She felt that she was growing “ nervous ” and needlessly alarmed ; and, above all things, it was necessary to conceal such feelings. For what — would be the natural demand of all around her — was there to be alarmed about in her husband’s absence from the house ? Mrs. Campden had already expressed her opinion that he did not like water-parties, and therefore would not put in an appearance on the mere, and she would only recognise a tribute to her own 144 FALLEN FORTUNES. sagacity and knowledge of John’s character in the fact that, after concluding his correspondence, he had gone elsewhere. The girls themselves would entertain the same opinion, except that they would not blame him, for they were too fond of him not to be kind — though they were by no means blind — to his foibles. “ I wonder where papa is ? ” said Kate, meeting her mother in the corridor, on the way to her own room to take off her bonnet and “things.” “ Marks says he has had no luncheon, but left the house — at least his hat and stick were gone — almost as soon as we did. We must not tell Mrs. Campden thatF “ He had a headache, perhaps, and meant to walk it off, and then to return to write his letters.” “ Perhaps so. By-the-bye, there is a letter just come by the afternoon’s post for him, marked Immediate.^* “ Yes,” said Jenny, who had followed her sister slowly up- stairs, but without assistance — it was one of her “ good days ” — “ and I saw Mr. Holt take it up and examine it with all the curiosity of a housemaid. I am sure he could not take a greater interest in his affairs if he was papa’s partner, and I do hope it has not come to that yet.” “ Hush, Jenny, hush !” said Mrs. Dalton, in what was for her a tone of severity : “ you may be sorry for such remarks as that when it is too late.” “ My dearest mamma, what do you mean ? ” cried Jenny, all tenderness and terror ; her mother’s looks alarmed her even more than her tone. “ Nothing, dear, nothing ; which I am sure was what you meant. Only, just now, such little things have such an effect on me ; and not finding your papa upstairs, nor in his own room, I — it was very foolish of me — began to think that something must have gone wrong.” “But, darling mamma,” said Kitty, reprovingly, “what is more likely than that he should have gone for a long walk ? Indeed, we know he has, since he went out before luncheon. He told me the other day that he must take more exercise, when I was speaking of his want of appetite, which both Jenny and I have remarked of late. Have we not, Jenny ? ” “Yes, mamma,” said Jenny, eagerly; “and I don’t mind telling you now that I took upon myself to ask Dr. Curzon to try and find out if there was anything the matter with him, and if I am not much mistaken, papa has gone to Sanbeck to-day in consequence ; in which case, his absence is quite accounted for.” THE ANONYMOUS LETTER, U5 At this moment there was a sharp ring at the front-door, and Jenny’s countenance fell. “ Nay, my darling,” said her mother, mistaking the cause of her sudden despondency, and prompt to administer comfort in her turn ; “ let us trust in Grod’s mercy and hope for the best. There is no reason why a ring at the bell should mean any ill news.” “ It is Dr. Curzon,” said Jenny, quietly ; “that is all.” In compensation, as it almost seemed, for her ailment and general delicacy, this young invalid’s senses were unusually acute. Her eyes had a wider range, her ears a keener percep- tion, than those of her more robust fellow-creatures ; every familiar step and voice, especially if they to whom they apper- tained were dear to her, had an individuality for her, and even their way of scraping their shoes or ringing the bell. She was right in this case, for in a few moments her maid came up to say that the doctor was awaiting her as usual in the library. “ I daresay you are surprised to see me so soon, my dear,” he began, volubly ; and if her mind had not been so far occupied, she would have detected in his address the manner of a set speech ; “ but as I happened to be passing by the gate, I thought I would, for once, pay my respects to your mother. It is quite an unprofessional visit, I assure you ; only Marks marched me here as usual, and I had not the strength of mind to resist him ; his patronage and condescension always overpower me.” “ I don’t care what was the reason that brings you here, doctor,” answered Jenny; “ but I never was more glad to see you. Dear mamma, who, as I have told you, has been exceed- ingly nervous of late — quite unlike herself, I think — and all, no doubt, upon papa’s account, is just now in the most unhappy and agitated state, just because he has left the house for a few hours, while we were in the yacht upon the lake. I endeavoured to quiet her by confessing that I had expressed some fears to you about papa’s health, and that it was very likely you had per- suaded him to visit you professionally at your own house. But now it seems that is not the case, I scarcely know what to say to comfort her. Of course it is very unreasonable in her to be alarmed about nothing in this way, but we girls scarcely know what to say,” “That must be a very unusual circumstance,” said the doctor, but without the smile that usually accompanied his good- natured raillery. “Well, of course your dear mother is unrea- sonable; that is only natural under the circumstances. Our L FALLEN FORTUNES. 146 object must be, of course, to find out some simple explanation of bis absence till be turns up again. How long bas be been away altogether, do you suppose ? ’’ “ Since balf-past eleven, I should say, if not earlier. Can’t you say that you have recommended him to take more exertion ? I have beard you often rally him about his stopping indoors.” “You are sure be bas not returned home since the morning, and then gone out again ? ” inquired the doctor, earnestly. “ So the servants say ; and be is not in the bouse, for mamma bas looked everywhere for him. How grave you look, doctor ! You don’t know anything, I trust, that goes in any way to cor- roborate dear mamma’s apprehensions ? ” “ Pooh, nonsense, no. But it is no use attempting to convince her — nor any of her sex, miss — by mere argument. When I bring your papa home with me, however, then I suppose she will believe that it is all right.” “ Ob, dear doctor, if you only could. Do you really know where be is ? ” for the doctor bad risen, with the obvious inten- tion of setting out at once. “Well, I can’t say I know. Miss Jenny; but I think I can make a shrewd guess. You can keep a secret, my dear ? I have often said I could back you against any girl in England for a secret — though that indeed is no very great proof of confidence.” “ If it is for mamma’s sake or papa’s, I would die rather than tell it,” said Jenny, confidently ; the doctor’s manner had worked upon her impressionable nature more deeply than he had intended. “ Oh, it’s not so serious as all that,” answered he, gaily ; “ but you know how your papa hates any fuss being made about him ; and the fact is, he did make a sort of half-promise to come over into Sanbeck and consult me to-day professionally. And he has done this, no doubt ; but somehow we have missed one another. How, if I leave my pony here, and go across the crags, I am sure to fall in with him. Perhaps, indeed, he is waiting at my house at this very moment.” “ Oh, thank you ; that will be an excellent plan, doctor. But it will cut up your whole afternoon. Why should we not send messengers ? ” “ Because your father would not like it. It is essential that no one should know of his intention to consult me. If I don’t put in an appearance here before nightfall, or if your papa and I miss one another by any chance, and he returns without me, you will see that they send my pony home.” THE ANONYMOUS LETTER. 14? ‘‘ Yes, yes. But you really think that you will find papa ? “I do, child, upon my honour/^ “ Then give me a kiss, doctor. Do you know there was something — I don’t know what — in your manner that made me almost as nervous as mamma ? But I am sure you would not deceive your poor Jenny.” “ I believe you have more confidence in your own sagacity than in my ingenuousness,” was the doctor’s laughing reply. “ Now, let me out at the window here, and then I can sneak down to the boat-house, and row myself across without attract- ing observation.” “ Stop a moment, doctor. If you are really pretty sure to meet papa, a letter has come for him marked Immediate, and you had better take it ; I will fetch it from the hall.” “ Very good. Miss Jenny,” and having placed the letter in his breast-pocket, and once again enjoined her as to sending home the pony, the doctor let himself out by way of the window, and made his way through the shrubbery to the boat-house. It was not uncommon for him, when on foot, to come or return from Sanbeck by way of the river ; and one of the boatmen who were about the place at once offered to “ put him across.” But the doctor replied that he himself intended to return ; and seating himself in the safest-looking of the small craft — for the configuration of his form was unsuitable for one of narrow di- mensions — he ferried it across with no inconsiderable skill. Arrived on the other side, he suffered the stream to carry him down below the usual landing-place, to a projection in the bank, behind which, and concealed from the observation of those opposite, he found a boat already moored. “ I thought so,’^ murmured he, with a sagacious nod, as he fastened his own wherry beside it ; “he has not returned. The foolish fellow was in greater haste to slip his cable than I had given him credit for.” Then the doctor began to ascend the crags, not only with de- liberation, as it was his wont’ to do, but pausing at every few feet, to look to left and right, as though in search of some par- ticular object ; at the summit he made a still longer pause, gazing earnestly about him in all directions. The scene was still extensive, though the shades of the autumn evening were coming on apace, yet he saw not what he sought, and his face, which had been hitherto serene, and even cheerful — the face of a man who is well satisfied with his own sagacity — began to lose its confidence. He was convinced that his examination of the Pallen fortunes. 148 ground behind him had been complete ; the long range of crags were now open to his view on both sides, and in front lay the winding path up which Dalton must needs have come from Sanbeck on his way homeward. His eyes could even sweep the road in the valley almost to the very spot where his own house stood, and where he had bidden his guest adieu that morning. “ He cannot surely have gone on to the lake,’^ muttered the doctor, in a tone, however, that had more of apprehension in it than of assurance ; “ or why should he have come to me ? The day was warm, and his exertions had been considerable ; but as he took out his handkerchief and wiped his forehead, you might have seen by the expression of his countenance that the action was caused by mental rather than physical causes ; it was a signification of supreme anxiety and alarm. “ My tongue cleaves to the roof of my mouth, he murmured ; ‘‘ there should be a spring about here somewhere.^* Having cast about him for its bearings, he walked quickly towards a high conical hill to the southward, and at its foot, upon the side remote from that where he had been standing, found the spring — and a man’s body stretched beside it. “Ah ! ” exclaimed he, aloud, with a great sigh of relief; “you were right. Tommy, after all.’^ This was not in approval of the spectacle before him (though it by no means shocked him, as it would have shocked anyone else), and far less of the action that had brought the prostrate man to such a pass, but merely in acknowledgment of his own foresightedness, and perhaps in reparation for having tempo- rarily doubted it ; for the doctor’s baptismal name was Thomas. Then he knelt down beside the body of his friend — for it was no other than that of Dalton — and proceeded to make a close ex- amination thereof. It lay huddled up, as though it had fallen, or rather sunk down from a sitting posture into a recumbent one, yet by no means stiffly, like a corpse. Close beside it, as though it had dropped from his lips, was a half-smoked cigar. The face was pale, but placid ; one hand was hidden in the breast, and when the doctor drew it, unresisting, forth, it was seen to clasp a locket. It opened to the touch, and showed a lock of hair within it brighter than the gold in which it was set. “ His wife’s hair, no doubt, poor fellow,” mused the doctor, who, having completed his professional examination, apparently to his satisfaction, proceeded with great coolness to take stock of the “ personality ” — including the contents of his friend’s pockets. “ Her tresses will never look like that again, yet they shall THE ANONYMOUS LETTER. 149 not grow white before their time if I can help it. What a mad fool was this, and yet what method in his madness ! He washed his month out with this, did he ’’ — here he pulled forth Dalton’s sherry-flask — “and then smoked a cigar, to make all sure! Upon my life, he was a cool one.” In each of the breast-pockets was a phial done up in paper, which the doctor’s own deft fin- gers had wrapped round it a few hours ago ; both were still full, and with their corks plugged tightly in. The searcher shook his head as he held one of them up to the waning light. “ What a fox he was,” soliloquised he ; “ and yet not so wary as the trapper. This is thinner and lighter than when it left my surgery this afternoon ; it has had water put to it, and much water. If it had been the liquor for which you took it, my unhappy friend, your haste to get out of the world would have defeated its own object. You would never have kept such a dose as that upon your stomach. It is well that I am not one to put things ofi* till to-morrow, or, having awakened from this stupor, and finding yourself left alone upon the desolate fells here, there is no knowing what rash act you might not have committed, from which no science could have saved you. Even now there is much to be done, I fear, before this maggot is got out of your head. If I had but one morsel of good news for you, however small, it would be like bread to a starving man. I wonder what this letter contains which I have been charged to give you, and that looks so important with its Immediate scrawled across it. It’s good or ill tidings may turn the scale of life or death. When one has rifled a dead man’s pockets, to open his letters should be easy. Yet it’s a scurvy thing to do.” The doctor sat irresolute, with the letter held doubtfully in his hand, as though he was weighing it for the post. “ It is curious,” soliloquised he, “how scrupulous one is about doing a little harm that good may come of it, which I suppose old Jefferson would set down to our Protestant bringing-up. One may say or do anything, it has been laid down by a high authority, only short of that of the Church, to save the reputa- tion of a woman, and yet I am in doubt as to doing this, though its object be to save life — the precious life, which it is my mission and calling to preserve. And not only this man’s life, but that of his wife also ; for if he dies, she dies ; if not to-day, yet a few months hence, when her hour of trial shall have come ; and then those sweet girls will be orphaned.” “ Unhappy wretch 1 ” cried he, addressing himself to his un- conscious companion, “ by' what strained and yiolent arguments FALLEN FORTUNES. IJO did you persuade yourself to leave her thus ? Compelled by what despair ? Yours must have been a woful case indeed.” As if touched by the thought of so much misery, the doctor bent down over the shut face of the prostrate man, and re- garded it with tender solicitude. ‘‘ I will do it,” murmured he, “ for his wife’s sake.” Then once more he examined the letter. “ It is no woman’s writing,” he mused ; “ there will be no secret of that sort to carry with me to my grave, making one dis- trustful of man’s virtue, even though he be placed in heaven itself. It is a clerkly hand, though marred with haste. Some news of scrip and share, no doubt : something has gone up to zenith, or more likely, to judge by my own experience, down to zero. Well, here goes.” He drew out his penknife, and prised open the envelope with professional neatness, mutter- ing something at the same time about “healing by the first intention.” “ There ! Sir James Graham himself could not have managed it more cleverly.” The envelope contained a half-sheet of folded paper, on which was written but this single line^ “ Stich to the Lara. Verbum Sap.” CHAPTEH XVIII. BESUSCITATED. If the doctor himself had not chanced to have burned his fingers at commercial snapdragon, and received not even a raisin for his pains, he would doubtless have been considerably puzzled by the laconic advice contained in the violated letter ; but as it was, he could make a pretty shrewd guess at what was actually the state of the case. The Lara^ he was at once persuaded, was not a “ young person,” but some speculative company, in which Dalton was mixed up, and of which he would have been willing, if he could, to have washed his hands. Perhaps it was the col- lapse of this very concern that had brought him to his present pass ; and if so, here was a confidential communication bidding him not to abandon hope with respect to it, but to hold on. It might, it is true, be only a word of advice concerning some ordinary business speculation, in which case there could at least be no harm in Dalton’s reading it ; but the probability was that the tidings were good — calculated to put him in better heart. Hitherto the doctor had taken matters very quietly, and may seem to have pushed his philosophy — as philosophers some- times will do in the estimation of ordinary folks — to downright RESUSCITATED. 151 brutality ; but both head and heart were in truth in accord with this good man, and were working together for good. ITow that he had a stimulant — as he hoped — to administer to his patient upon recovery, he lost no time in resuscitating him. Raising Dalton’s head, and supporting it on his own knee, he drew from his pocket a bottle of what looked like smelling-salts, except that it was much darker, and applied it to his friend’s nostrils. Then he dropped a few red drops from a phial between his lips, whereupon the eyes of the patient opened slowly, stared at his companion without recognition, and then gazed inquiringly about him. “ This cannot be death,” murmured he, feebly. ‘‘ No, it is not death, Dalton ; and if you are a man, you will thank God for it,” said Dr. Curzon, gravely. Not a word was spoken for some moments, during which “ speculation ” began to gather in the patient’s eyes. The miseries of his position, from which he had in vain attempted to escape, were forcing themselves upon his mind. “ You have deceived me, doctor,” groaned he, despairingly. “What you gave me was not laudanum.” “ I have saved you, rather, my friend, in spite of yourself. If it had not been for my pardonable stratagem — for never had a pious fraud so much of piety in it — you would have been at this moment in Gehenna, among all the other murderers.” “Murderers! That is a matter of opinion,” answered the other, doggedly. “ I should have put an end to my own life, it is true, and I do not thank you for having given me a longer lease of it.” “ Bah 1 I was not speaking of your life at all. When I say ‘ murderer,^ I mean a man who slays not himself, but another ; in some cases (when the thing is comparatively venial) from mere passion, in others with selfishness and calculation ; in such a manner would you have slain — your wife ! ” “ My wife I my Edith 1 Why, I died for her.” “ You persuaded yourself so, no doubt ; yet your death would have killed her. If I did not take you home — as I mean to do — this night, your very absence would go nigh to do it. We men being so worthless, have no conception, sir, at what a fancy price we are estimated by our women.” “ I am worthless enough. Heaven knows,” groaned Dalton, “ and much worse than worthless. Look you here, doctor 1 ” exclaimed he, starting to his feet with sudden anger, “ you have been meddling in matters with which you have no concern, and 152 FALLEN FORTUNES, which it is impossible you should understand. How it was that you guessed my purpose I cannot tell, but being ignorant of my necessities, you had no right to thwart it. You have done me an injury — which being done, can never be repaired.” “ I know it,” replied the doetor, coolly ; and I am glad of it. Your plan of committing suicide, without its appearing to be suicide, has now failed for good and all. Should you ever again attempt this wickedness, John Dalton, no matter where, I will come, though it be from the ends of the earth, to bear witness to what has happened to-day ! Please to sit down, sir, or you will be observed from the house.” ‘‘ And this is one who calls himself my friend ! ” said Dalton, obeying him sullenly. “ Yes ; and it is because I am your friend, and the friend of those who love you far beyond your deserts, that I am acting as I do. Of course, you are in some dire distress. Hay ” — for Dalton was about to speak — “I do not seek to pry into its nature. I take it for granted that you were pushed very hard, and that you felt it most because it affected others.” “ I did, I did ; Heaven knows it ! ” answered the wretched man. “ Well, would not those others have those ills to bear, and your loss as well ? To one, at least, that would have been worse than all other losses. I tell you — I, who know her w^ell — that it would have slain her.” Again there was a pause, during which Dalton sat, thoughtful yet irresolute, with his eyes fixed upon the ground, and his fingers plucking at the grass. “ How did you come to know that I was thinking of this thing ? ” inquired he at length. “ From your own words and manner. I did not believe in your toothache from the beginning. And if you had no tooth- ache, why should you need laudanum ? Then, again, in our first talk you said with respect to having your tooth out, ‘ I cannot take chloroform ; ’ whereby you wished to put the idea of your having heart-disease into my mind, before you came to consult me about your health. These suspicions, slight in them- selves, were strengthened and corroborated by your behaviour during our interview. When I asked you, ‘ Is your life in- sured ? ’ it was not, as you imagined, from any idea that it was in danger from disease, but to discover whether those belonging to you — for I never paid you the ill compliment of supposing those were not uppermost in your thoughts — would reap a benefit RESUSCITATED, 153 from your decease. Your vvliole manner under my examination was artificial and unlike yourself ; and your replies were tech- nical replies — not natural ones, such as are ^iven by genuine patients, but learned out of a book. When I said, ‘You have heart-disease, you think ? ^ quite suddenly, you did not put your hand there, as a man probably w^ould have done who really had it ; yet it was evident to me all along that you wished me to believe so. Then again — in spite of my suggesting other reme- dies — you reiterated your wish for laudanum, which at the same time you strenuously objected to my putting down in my little account. Taking all these things into consideration, I said with perfect truth that ‘ I should not be surprised if you died suddenly,* for by that time I felt convinced that it was your intention to put an end to your own existence.’* “ I thought I had convinced you that I had heart-disease,” observed Dalton, naively, his mind for the moment diverted from its gloom by the doctor’s statement. “ No, my friend, you only convinced me that you wanted to have it. When a man says ‘ I thought,’ when he ought to say ‘ I feared,’ as you did, he generally means ‘ I wish.* I could not tell you my suspicions, lest in so doing I might precipitate the catastrophe — though, in truth, I never guessed how near it was • but I resolved to tell your wife.” “ Great Heaven ! you might have killed her ! ” “ What ! you can see danger where you could not see destruc- tion ? Do you suppose my hint of what you meditated could have harmed her worse than the news of what you had done ? It was my duty, of course, to set her on her guard, to provide her with remedies, in case you should put your rash design into effect ; and I was taking her the very things in my pocket with which I have just brought you back to life, when I heard that you had not returned to Hiverside. Of course, if it had been really laudanum which you carried away with you from my surgery, no human power could have saved you ; but as it is, you are none the worse than you were three hours ago.” “And none the better,” answered Dalton, wearily. “ But others are better — those others for whom you profess to have risked so much. Come, be a man, since you must needs live on. There is work for you in the world of some sort, as for every- one else. And you, of all men, with your troops of friends ” Hitherto, although striking almost at haphazard, the doctor had been very successful in his arguments, but here for the first time he touched a wrong chord, 154 FALLEN FORTUNES. “ Work ! cried Dalfcon, bitterly; “nay, that is just what is denied me. It is not much, one would imagine, to ask of Fortune permission to spend one’s life in toil, yet she will not grant it to me.” “ Pshaw ! she has refused it to ten thousand men to-day, sir, as worthy as yourself, and with more pressing needs.” “ That is impossible, Curzon. You do not know Well, I will tell you,” said Dalton, suddenly interrupting himself. “ This man, to whom you would apply your maxims of philo- sophy, whose wife and children — and their needs — you are as well acquainted with as himself — is ruined. When I say Ruined, I mean it ; and by his own insensate selfishness and folly.” “ Don’t use such hard names, my good friend,” interposed the doctor, quietly, “because, though you apply them to your- self, they may fit other people. I have been ruined myself by one of tbe most promising and remarkable mines ” “^N'ot the Lara?^^ cried Dalton, grasping his companion’s arm in passionate excitement. “I am speaking of years ago, my friend,” answered the other. “ You must not imagine that you are the only person who has played with fire and burnt his fingers.” “But it is not my fingers only, man. My whole body has been, so to speak, reduced to ashes.” “ I have known even that to happen — commercially — and yet the whole body to rise again like the phoenix. By-the-bye, I have a letter for you in my pocket, which I fancy may be of some importance.” “ That is not very likely,” answered the other, indifferently. “ I have had a good many letters lately, of which I have thought as much myself until 1 came to open them.” “Well, open this; it is marked Immediate, you see — I hope it is good news ? ” This question was not put for several moments, during which Dalton, having read the single line which formed the contents of the letter, was examining it, and even its address, with the utmost curiosity. “ I can see there is good news,” repeated the doctor ; “ come, confess it.” “ I don’t know,” replied the other, excitedly. “ It may prove so, yet I scarcely know how.” “ Then there is Hope at the bottom of it,” returned the doctor, cheerfully. “We will not think of poisoning ourselves any more, for want of Hope.” RESUSCITATED. ISS This is the best friend I have yet had — next to yourself, doctor/’ said Dalton, still poring over the letter. Yet he only signs himself Verbum Sap. Imagine a man like me, with my ‘ troops of friends,’ as you were saying, being indebted to an anonymous correspondent for the first gleam of comfort ! ” “ Friends are often powerless to help one, though with all the will in the world,” observed the doctor; but the remark was unheeded. “ Stick to the I/am,” muttered Dalton. “ This advice would surely never have been sent if an opportunity was not about to be afforded me of escaping from my responsibility. Yet who could have sent it ? There is hardly anyone save Holt who is aware of my connection with it. It is very, very strange.” “ Come, Dalton, we must now go back to Riverside,” ob- served the doctor, authoritatively. “ Every minute of your absence, remember, gives a pang to your wife.” “ A.t once, then,” said Dalton, stepping out, as he spoke, towards home with an elasticity that did not escape his com- panion’s notice. The one tiny spark of hope had already re-lit the embers of life within him. “ Remember, my friend, you have been many hours from home, and will have to account for them. You are a married man, however, and doubtless fertile in excuses.” “Many hours!” exclaimed Dalton, in astonishment; but a look at his watch confirmed the doctor’s statement. “ You would have slept half the night here, had I not awakened you by my incantations,” continued the latter. “ Now, let us both be in the same tale to account for this. You were coming over to Sanbeck to see me about your tooth- ache ; and, finding me out — you did find me out, you know — you waited until I came home, and so you were delayed. But there ; your wife will be much too well pleased to see you, I’ll warrant, to ask very searching questions. And if she only knew how near ” “ Nay, doctor, spare me. Some day, when she is strong and well, and I am prosperous — you know what ‘ some day ’ means — she shall thank you with her own lips for what you have just done. I could almost thank you myself, if this news here can be depended upon ;” and he clasped the letter between his hands as though it were some priceless treasure. “ Never mind the thanks, my friend. I am but the humble instrument by which Another has given you a new life ; do not cast it away so rashly as the old one. And I say ” — this with FALLEN FORTUNES. 156 a flourish of Ills stick — “mind they send my pony home at once, or else my patients will be coming into the world and going out of it without my help ; a thing not to be endured.” So soon as his companion had left him, Dalton discovered — whether he should be grateful to him for life or not — how much he had owed to the good doctor for his cheerful companionship and out-speaking. His heart once more sank beneath him as he drew near to Riverside and his dear ones ; for what was there to cheer him now, more than there had been when he had sought death for lack of cheer, a few hours ago, save this small scrap of writing, unsigned, unwarranted, and even without direct promise of good of any kind ? Its very vagueness, however, was in some sort encouraging, since it gave wide room for hope. The river was less rapid as he crossed it now, and he had leisure for thought as he plied the oar ; but no suggestion occurred to him as to who that mysterious giver of advice respecting the Lara might be. Holt, it was true, might help him to a guess at this ; but Holt, something whispered to him, was the very last man with whom he ought to confer on such a matter. Dalton’s boat was seen from the windows of the house, and Kitty and Tony came running down to the landing to welcome his return, “ Where have you been, papa ? You have frightened us almost into fits.” Then he told them, half-laughingly, how he had missed the doctor, whom he had gone to consult about a toothache, and then met him returning home — for if ever there was a case where “ the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth ” might not be told, it was surely his ; and in their joy at seeing him they did not question him very closely. Edith was not downstairs among the welcomers or reprovers (“ A pretty fright you gave us,” said Mrs. Campden ; “ it is my belief you have come home so late merely to have an excuse for not dressing for dinner ”) ; but was in her own room, waiting for him, with a pale face and anguished eyes. “ Oh, darling, thank Heaven you are come!” cried she, as she clasped him in her arms. “ It was very wrong of me, and very wicked, but do you know, John, I had almost begun to fear ” She hesitated, and with her hand pressed to her side, panted, as much from emotion as for breath. “ What, dearest ? What was there to f^ar ? ” asked her hug* band, caressingly. DALTON GOES HIS OWN WA K 157 “ I almost feared that you had been so cruel as to have de- serted us, and gone to seek rest in the grave, alone.” Dalton felt at that moment that if he had indeed been so cruel, he would have deserved, not rest, but eternal retribution. CHAPTER XIX. DALTON GOES HIS OWN WAT. There were now but two or three days remaining to be spent at Riverside ; the Daltons had been there for some time, but Holt had come towards the end of their stay, and was to return to London in their company. It was a strong proof of the popu- larity of the former that they were importuned to make a longer visit, notwithstanding that such an arrangement would have involved keeping Mr. Holt, who had already overstayed his welcome. There was nothing about him even negatively offen- sive — such as is seen in the tone, or look, or manner of many men ; but he had not succeeded in ingratiating himself with any one of the party. The man who disliked him most was un- doubtedly he who had been the cause of his admission into the Riverside circle — namely, John Dalton himself ; yet he now sought his companionship more than ever, and more than that of his own belongings. He was the only one in the house, save Edith, who could appreciate — even if he did not sympathise witb — his miserable position ; and with Edith, conversation was too painful. And Holt, on his part, feeling perhaps somewhat de trop in the company of the rest, or perhaps for more substan- tial reasons, was glad enough of his company. Of Dalton’s con- versation — once so brilliant and so fluent, even with a companion such as he — he did not get much ; the two men sat opposite to one another for hours together in the morning with their cigars, dropping a remark not much more frequently than they dropped the long ashes of their Intimidads. ‘‘ By-the-bye,” said Holt, on the morning after the event recorded in our last chapter, “this dreadful Lara business has swallowed up all other affairs, like an Aaron’s rod, or I should not have omitted to tell you that Astor has left us.” “ Left you ? I suppose you mean that he has had his congL Poor Philip ! The family, it seems, are coming to grief all round. Perhaps, if he had won his cause, he would not have kicked down the whole property, as I have done.” “ Well, he squandered whatever he could get, you know.” “ That’s true,” answered Dalton, indifferently. He had always PALLEJSr FORTUNES. 158 felt much sympathy for his half-brother, besides exhibiting it in a more practical way ; but his own circumstances were too desperate to admit of such feeling for him now. “ I am afraid ho is an impracticable fellow. I believe I did all I could for him — when I could and Dalton sighed to think how incapable he had become of helping even himself. “ Impracticable ; yes, that is just the word. I found it was quite impossible to get on with him any longer. I bore with him more than I could have done for any other man, for your sake.” “ I daresay,” said Dalton, coolly, and not with much gracious^ ness, it must be owned. “ And where is the poor fellow gone to now ? ” “ I cannot tell. There was no absolute quarrel between us, you understand, but we did not part on such good terms that there was any confidence. I believe, however, he has gone abroad — to seek his fortune ; rather a vague phrase with any- body, but in the case of such a rolling stone as Astor ” and Mr. Holt executed his favourite continental shrug. “ If I was a free man, and if I could leave my wife and children with enough to live upon in comfort, that is what I would do myself,” said Dalton, thoughtfully. “ What would you do ? ” “ Go abroad and seek my fortune ; and when I say ‘ abroad,* I mean across the world, and as much as possible out of it. I would fly from Civilisation, Luxury, Society ” He stopped, suddenly conscious that he had a listener — a very earnest and attentive one, with a look upon his face that seemed to ill conceal something of satisfaction, if not of downright triumph. “ What the devil is there to grin at ? ” asked Dalton, savagely. “ I was not grinning at all, my good sir,” answered the other. “ I was, on the contrary, deploring within myself the cruel mis- chance that had brought a man like you, the pet of the — the bower and the hall — how does it go ? to wish yourself out of society. You wouldn’t like to become a savage, surely, to have only two coats — of paint — one for peace and one for war ? ” “ I shall not long possess two coats of any other kind,” said Dalton, bitterly. “ Oh, come, come ; there you exaggerate.” “ I am stating the simple fact, and you know it, Holt. Sup- posing that mine turns out as worthless as we believe it to be, I shall, literally, not have a coat to my back.” DALTON GOES HIS OWN WAY. 159 “ A bad mine is a deuced bad bole to get into, no doubt; but still, there are ways out of it/’ “ Not honest ways,” answered Dalton, sternly; “you know we have exhausted that subject.” “ Yes ; but we were talking then of your slipping your head out of the collar. Now, supposing you got somebody else to take the shares upon his own shoulders. Of course, you would get nothing for them, but it would at least limit your responsi- bilities.” “ But who on earth would be such a fool as to take shares in the Lara, now ? ” “ Well, there are always speculators,” answered the other, coolly — “ not fools, by any means, but men who will take some risk upon themselves, where the expenditure in the first instance is little or nothing.” “ Have you a friend in the City who wants Laras ? ” inquired Dalton with a forced laugh. The words of warning in the letter of the previous day, “ Stick to the Lara,'* rang in his ears. Was it really possible that the man who had pronounced the mine to be hopeless, and likely to be worse than hopeless, ruinous, was desirous to obtain shares in it ? The suspicions that he had of late entertained of Holt, recurred to his mind with sudden violence ; he had no more ground for them than before, unless that single line of anonymous advice could be so termed ; yet he felt convinced, as he had never been before. “ Have you a friend in the City who wants Laras ? ” was, he was aware, a question which, under the circumstances, involved an insult; yet he had not hesitated to put it. “ You are not serious, I am sure, Dalton,” said the other, quietly ; “if, at least, you mean by that, do I want Laras. The mine is, in my opinion, a mere dangerous hole. At the same time, I believe I know people, or can find them, who think other- wise ; who are confident that they can avoid the danger, and have hopes of getting something out of the hole. They are rash, no doubt, but they are accustomed to risks ; and if they choose to take this particular one instead of you, that is their own affair. You surely need have no scruples in this case.” “ They are not scruples, but doubts ” “ Doubts, Dalton ? ” interrupted the other, quickly. “ Doubts of whom ? ” “ Well, I cannot say of whom, because there may be a lot of people mixed up in the affair, and I don’t happen to know their names. You w^ere good enough to say^ the other day, that you i6o FALLEN FORTUNES. wonld hold me harmless — out of old acquaintance’ sake — from further liability as to the Lam ; and here, it seems, are others, who have no such acquaintance with me, offering to do me the like favour. Under these circumstances — moved by so singular a coincidence — I think I shall stick to the LaraF “ You will do as you please, of course, my dear Dalton ; but the question is whether you can afford to stick to it. That every shilling will have to be paid up, is morally certain.” ‘‘ I can pay every shilling.” “ My dear fellow, there is no occasion to be so brusque ; I do not doubt that you can pay it. But when you were so good as to repose some confidence in me the other day respecting your affairs, it was made plain to me that the payment would leave you without much margin as to means.” “ You need not be so delicate about it, my good sir,” laughed Dalton, bitterly ; “it will leave me penniless.” “ Not quite that, I hope, Dalton.” “ Quite that. Holt. Whatever remnant may be left I shall set apart for my wife and children, and, only taking for myself so much as will pay my passage out, and keep me for a few' weeks when I have landed, I mean to go abroad, like Philip, and seek my fortune. It is, as you have said, a vague term ; but it is at all events better than staying here and cutting my throat. It is out of the question that I should remain at home and be a burden to my dear ones ” — for a moment his lip trembled, his voice failed ; then, as if ashamed of his own weakness, he added sharply — “and therefore I mean to go abroad.” “ But surely not without an aim ? ” “ I did not say that,” answered Dalton, coldly. “ My dear fellow, I am the last person to be inquisitive, or to press for confidence which is withheld from me ; I was only about to observe that the difficulties which even you may expe- rience in getting a home appointment of any value, would disap- pear if you could be content with a place abroad. There is not the same importunity for them, and at the same time they are in many respects more advantageous. There is many a consul- ship, for example, at places to which one would scarcely like to bring one’s wife and family, where, nevertheless, a man might v find himself very comfortable en garcon, and make — or rather save — a good pot of money.” “ I daresay,” answered Dalton, with indifference. He had hardly heard what the other said. The intention which he had just expressed of leaving England had seized him upon a sudden, BALTON GOES HIS OWN WAY, i6i while Holt was talking to him, and had been in part suggested by his talk ; and though he was quite resolved to put it into execution, the magnitude of the matter overwhelmed him. It was only with a small part of the world that he was now con- cerned ; it did indeed consist of but four persons. Those always- loved ones were dearer to him now than when the rest of the world had been something to him ; they were his all-in-all, and now he must needs part from them — perhaps for ever. It was curious that when he had been cutting himself off from them (as he thought) ivitli certainty^ he had been less moved ; but then he had known, or had persuaded himself, that it was for their own good ; and now he could not be snre of this. Sure ? He could be sure of nothing. His whole life had become a hideous chance, in which the odds were fearfully against him ; and those he loved he had set upon the hazard of the die — as men he had read of, vile and worthless men, had staked their wives and children against gold, and lost. His brain seemed all on fire. ‘‘ I have only to repeat, Dalton,” he presently heard the other saying, “that I hope to be allowed to show myself your friend. If you do go — no matter where — I shall be still here, in England, at your command, and at the command of those yon leave behind you.” “ True, true,” answered Dalton, walking up and down. Holt looked at him inquiringly. They were strange words in which to acknowledge such a friendly offer. If he could have looked into the other’s thoughts he would have read something of this kind : “ Yes, he will be here when I am far away ; they will be poor, sweet souls, and he will be rich. He will dare what he has hitherto not dreamed of daring. He will ask her to become his wife — my Kitty ! and she will spurn him ; then she will taste of the bitter cup of penury and dependence, and he will importune her, and perhaps she will not spurn him. My God, it is terrible ! ” “ I hope you will do nothing rashly,” observed Holt, doubt- less alarmed by the wild looks of his companion. “I hope not,” was the cold reply ; “ unless, that is, you con- sider what is soon and sudden to be necessarily rash. I shall probably go at once.” “ But ' arrangements will have to be made with respect to your family — I mean business ones,” added the other, seeing Dalton’s brow grow dark ; “ you can’t get away all in a hurry, even if it were only for this Lara business. I don’t mean to say the law could stop you ; but by leaving England at such a i 62 FALLEN FORTUNES. moment — and supposing things came to their worst with the mine — you would expose yourself to the suspicion of having done that very thing which, when I proposed that you should do it — although in a very modified form — you were ready to fly at my throat for the bare suggestion. Kovv, if you could get rid of the shares, with all their liabiiities, as I honestly believe Once for all. Holt,” interrupted Dalton, angrily, “ I shall not part with those shares ; so it is idle to discuss the subject. As you say, there are many arrangements to be made, and quickly, so that I have no time to waste.” And with that, he pitched the remains of his cigar out of the window, instead of placing it in its proper receptacle, and marched out of the room. “ Qu^allait il faire dans cette galore .^” inquired Mr. Diehard Holt, when he found himself alone. He prided himself on his French accent to that extent that it pleased him to mouth the language, even when no one was at hand in whom to excite admiration by it. “ What maggot has he got into his head now ? ” mused he. “ The idea of a man like him, who has never been without kid gloves and a silver fork, expecting to make a fortune at the antipodes ! Well, well ; he may take his own way, with all my heart ; and the sooner he goes, and the longer he is away — whether measured by time or space — the better I shall be pleased. Hunger, they say, will tame a lion ; and poverty is a certain sort of hunger, and will tame most things, including a woman’s heart.” His face softened — all but those unsympathising eyes — and the man of scrip and share seemed to give himself u]d for a time to dreams. His fingers played softly on the table before him, as though in time to some unseen musician, and his lips fol- lowed an unheard song. Then something roused him : it was but Dalton’s whistling to a spaniel upon the lawn, but he rose at once with a frown and watched him. The ruined man, with head depressed, and one hand buried in his pocket, was about to enter the shrubbery, doubtless for a solitary ramble. In his loneliness and melancholy, it seemed that he even sought the companionship of a dog. Mr. Holt, however, if he thus translated his friend’s action, was by no means moved by it to pity. Hang the fellow, I don’t know what has come to him,” muttered he, as he gazed out on his retreating figure : “he used DALTON GOES HIS OWN WAY, 163 to be as malleable as clay, but now be is stiff against the potter. What on earth can have made him sweet upon these Laras ? There’s not a man in England — not now — who could have told him that they were not worthless, and worse than worthless. That is the evil of having to deal with a man that is not prac- tical. All the arguments may be against him, yet he will stick like a leech to his own instincts, and sometimes, begad ” — and here Mr. Holt grinned rather unpleasantly — “ he may be right in so doing, in spite of himself and of his friends.” Unconscious of this doubtful compliment, John Dalton had plunged with his four-footed companion into the mazes of the “ wilderness,” as that part of the shrubbery at Riverside was called which ran at the base of the hill behind the house, be- tween the park and the grounds.” It was an artificial sort of place, plentifully provided with nooks and seats- — perhaps in anticipation of some love-making in the family — but it was at present as solitary as Sahara. Here Dalton wandered for hours, forming the scheme he had so suddenly determined upon into a particular shape. It is incredible to prosperous persons to what slender hope? men who have been overwhelmed by misfortune will cling, and especially if those hopes are few as well as slender. If their woes — God help them ! — be exaggerated, as their friends are so prone to say, it is certain that they exaggerate their chances of redemption likewise. As prop after prop is torn away from beneath the superstructure, those which still remain are credited with a strength which, when they stood shoulder to shoulder with the others, would have seemed preposterous ; and when all have been swept away save one — that one, like the last book of the Sibyl, is rated by its unhappy possessor at the same value as all the rest. How, the last hope that was left to Dalton, in his own view at least — for we have heard another express an opinion that it was a source of apprehension rather than of comfort — was his interest in the Lara mine, nearly half of which indeed was his own property. He had been induced to invest in it by Holt’s representations ; and even now, though he har- boured such strong suspicions of his conduct, he believed that those representations had been genuine. .At one time, it was certain that Holt had himself purchased largely in the mine, and whatever might be wrong with the man in morals, his judgment in business affairs was undoubtedly sound. He was by no means rash in his investments, even where the prospect of gain was very tempting ; and it was hard to believe that Holt would have 164 FALLEN FORTUNES. lield possession — even for an hour — of what, as it now turned out, might have ruined him root and branch. It was true that he had got rid of the shares, and even that he had advised his friend to do the like ; but he had been by no means urgent about the matter, as would have been the case if he had sus- pected danger ; and danger of this desperate kind (so Dalton thought) could hardly have existed without Holt’s suspecting it. If the Lara was really the empty hole which Holt had described it, and which the papers had stigmatised it as being, he (Dalton) was ruined indeed beyond redemption ; but if his own instincts about the matter, so curiously corroborated by his anonymous correspondent, and also by Holt’s own unexpected offer to take the shares off his hands, were to be relied upon, things were not so bad with the Lara as they seemed, and as some persons perhaps were interested in making them appear. The truth of the matter was only to be arrived at by visiting the mine itself, and this was the course that Dalton had made up his mind to adopt. In his hand was the advertisement sheet of The Times newspaper, in which he had already marked the sailings of the steamers for Hio. He would start by the very first, if his wife would let him. Hot that his wife had ever opposed herself to will or whim of his ; he meant rather if his love for his wife would let him ; if he could bring himself to break this resolve of his to her ear — sweet unsuspecting soul ! — and then to put it into execution. To leave her in her penury and w'oful change ; upon the brink, too, of her woman’s trial — the time of all others when she would yearn for his comforting presence ! If Dalton was of the silver-fork and kid-glove school, as Holt had said, his feelings were natural and wholesome. He loved his wife and children as much as if society had had no charms for him, nor he for it. The hardships that would lie before him in the new life that he was contemplating would probably be hateful to one nurtured and brought up as he had been, but they never crossed his mind. If he thought of himself at all, it was only in connection with those dear ones from whom he was about to tear himself ; and even then, his main thought was, not how bitterly he would feel the wrench, but how it would rive and wound those hearts that were bound up with his. Could his darling Edith — bowed down, as he knew she was, notwith- standing her brave bearing, by their ruin — endure his absence upon so vague a quest, so far, and perchance so long ? When her hour of anguish came, would she survive He had no courage to finish the dire foreboding, but threw himself on a THE TOILER OP OLD TIMES, I6S garden-seat and hid his face, while the dog looked up at him in wistful wonder. From the park above came the “ chip- chop ” of an axe, indicating that the master of Riversdale was engaged — qaite independently of the time of year — in his self-imposed task of thinning the timber. “ What a life of ease does yon man lead ! ” thought Dalton, bitterly. To him, indeed, it seemed that all men were free from burdens in comparison with the heavy load that cruel Fate had imposed upon his own shoulders, or rather — which was worse — that he had himself placed there. There was no one, down to the gardener’s lad, whom he had just seen tending the mowing-machine upon the lawn, with whom he would not have exchanged places. The transformation that he had already suffered was greater than that would be, by far. If an ape’s head — which he had richly deserved — had been substituted for his own, he could not have become more com- pletely another man, except (alas !) that he was recognisable. He would be pointed at by every finger, as he went sloughing by in his rags, as the man who had once been John Dalton. He rose from his seat with a passionate curse ; but the next moment his anger passed away. What did it matter if he did sink so low ? It was only what he merited. He might stop and starve in England, and would deserve no pity. But for tlie sake of others it behoved him still to try and hold up his head, and that could be only done by going elsewhere. On Sunday week a vessel sailed to Rio Janeiro from Southampton, and he would go in that ; not to seek a fortune, but upon an errand that he strove fo think not quite so hopeless — to recover the one which he had lost. CHAPTER XX. THE POWER OF “ OLD TIMES.’* “ Edith, darling, I have thought of a plan.” This was the way John Dalton “ broke it ” to his wife in her chamber that after- noon ; he felt that with her it was no use to silver the bitter pill, for that her love, no matter what disguise they wore, would detect the aloes. “ A plan, dearest ? ” answered she, in trembling tones. There was something in his voice, though he had made it buoyant as he could, that presaged to her of ill. “ Yes, love. The more I think of that Brazil mine, the more I cling to it. I think, with you, that that strange warning, not to deem all as lost there, came from a friendly hand ; and t66 PALLEM EORTUNES. thoiigli I do not say that Holt has played mo false — I have no proof of that, you know ” “ Never mind Mr. Holt, love, now,’’ interposed she, calmly. “Well, I have come to the conclusion that the best and only course that now lies open to me is to see after the thing with my own eyes — to go to Brazil.’' “ To go to Brazil.” How faint and full of fear that echo was ! She had been standing by his side, with one hand resting on his shoulder, and he felt her clutch it, to save herself from falling. “ Yes, dear ! why not ? ” he went on in cheerful but caressing tones. “ It is what men of business are doing every day : a few weeks out, a few weeks home again. We miss them at the club for a month or two, and then they are back again so soon, it seems impossible they can have gone so far — not that it is really far away nowadays,” he added, hastily. All his finesse, all his dexterous phrases, had clean gone from him. The despair in his wife’s eyes had disarmed him of all those weapons which he had been wont to wield so well. “ If you think, darling, that I had better stay at home — that is,” added he, with a wan smile, “ in England, and trust to the chapter of accidents ; to the possible aid of friends, or the spe- cial intervention of — of Fate ” (it was curious how the spectacle of his Edith’s misery made him rebellious against the Hand which, if it bad not caused it, still had not warded it off, and how again her sad reproving glance brought him back in an instant to submission) — “ if you have any reasonable expectation that things may mend with us ; that to-morrow will be not like to-day, and yesterday, and all other days since this befell us, void of help and hope— I will stay on. Or, if you feel that the parting from me — for six months at most — is more than you can bear ” “No, no!” she murmured hoarsely, while her face, sharp, anguished, racked with woe, denied her words. He did not look upon it, but kept his eyes upon the pattern of the carpet, though one hand clasped her own, and one was thrown about her waist, and held it close. “ I am yours, God knows, Edith, in any case, but having lost your all, the least I can offer is myself, to go, to stay, exactly as you choose to order it — only this seems the best. Holt cannot tell — or will not — how matters at St. Jose really stand. No one in England seems to know about it, and none has such cause to care as I. It will at least be movement, action. I shall feel THE POWER OF OLD TIMES: 167 that I am doing something, striving to build up a little what my folly has destroyed ; I shall not, as now, be sitting with folded hands, watching the gathering clouds before they burst and over- whelm my dear ones — Oh, Edith, let me go ! ” “ Go, dearest, go,^’ said she. If any hope lies that way, go — to Brazil. We shall not — our hearts will not be parted ; all day my thoughts will be upon you, and all night, if sleep should come, my dreams will be full of you. — Oh, God, pro- tect this man,’^ exclaimed she passionately, “ whom Thou hast given unto me to be mine own, and bring him back to those he loves ! She had fallen on her knees upon the footstool by his side, and on her upturned face the sun was shining. Ko pictured saint with glory on her brow ever looked more pure and fair. ‘‘What am i, what am J,” thought Dalton, “ that this sweet soul should importune heaven for me ? What are we all — we men — that our women should do the like for us ? And would they do the like if they knew what we were. ‘ To those he loves,’ she prayed, but not ‘ to me.’ ” He took no note of that when the words were spoken, but yet they lived with him, and, looked at by the light of things to come, had afterwards a keen significance. “ And when is it you think of ” “The steamer by which — subject to your wishes, dearest — I design to sail, leaves Southampton on Sunday week.” “ So soon ! ” sighed she. “ But you know best.” “ Hay, darling, I know nothing. But it seems to me that what I am to do, if it is to be done, should be done at once. Holt tells me that there is no means of getting information — except by telegraph — from the agent at St. Jose, or from the English expert who was sent out to see about the mine. How, T^m sure if I ask Campden, he would say at once : ‘ Go and look into this matter with your own eyes. Search your v/ell for the truth while the water is clean which it may be the interest of some people to sully.’ There is no doubt that the whole affair is a swindle, but still there may be some advantage in getting to the bottom of it.” Mrs. Dalton sighed. It might be so, or it might not, but her mind reverted to the times — not so long ago — when her husband had had naught to do with any such matters. “ If your time is so short, darling, would it not be right to let the dear children know ? Every hour that they now pass away from you, in ignorance of its preciousness, they will regret FALLEN FORTUNES, 1 68 hereafter. ‘ We might have been with dear papa/ they will say, when you are far away, John.'’ “ Let us wait till we get home, dearest. It is but two days more. If we told the girls and — and Tony ” — their very names melted the waxen heart within him — “ they would never keep the secret. I don’t want Campden to know it, and especially that woman ” — it was thus, I am afraid, that Dalton, although unconscious of his disrespect, indicated his hostess — “ while we are still their guests. We will part company just as usual, and then I will write and tell him.” “ The girls will be very brave, John — of that I am cer- tain ; and as for Tony, except for the pomp and circumstance of being an Eton boy, he has no ambitions to be shattered. As for his education — at all events for the present — that will be superintended by Jenny, who, he has always pro- tested, has taught him more than all his other teachers put together.” “ Poor Jenny, poor Jenny ! ” murmured Dalton. To his heart of hearts this invalid daughter was tlie dearest of all his little flock ; and when he showed it, it was gladly pardoned to him by all the rest, by reason of her infirmity. “ Oh, Heaven ! ” cried he, in anguish, ‘‘that I should have brought my Jenny to such a pass as this ! ” “Jenny will do very well, John,” returned his wife, with cheerfulness. “ What ! ” exclaimed he, almost in anger ; “ without doctors, or sea-air, or comforts such as she has always been accustomed to, and which she needs more than all the rest ? Ho, Edith, she ivill die, and it will be her own father who has ” “ John, this must not be,” interrupted his wife, reproachfully; “ if you break down like this, what will become of us ? ” “ That is what I am thinking of,” answered he, bitterly. “Well, and I have been thinking of it too, and have hit upon a scheme for the future, which I should have told you a while ago, only your great plan put my little one out of my head. My notion is, that when we have got rid of our house, which of course must be done as soon as possible, w^e should all go and lodge with Mrs. Haywood. The dear old woman dotes upon the girls, as much as when she was their nurse, and I am sure would be delighted to have us. I think we could live in Brown Street as cheaply as anywhere.” It was wonderful to see how this fragile and delicate creature bowed down by present misfortune, and full of worse foreboding THE POWER OP ^^OLD TIME ST 169 for the future, rose up to confront the evil day, and make what provision she could against it. “ It would be cheap, no doubt, observed Dalton, ruefully. “Let me see, she lives somewhere out Pentonville way, does she not ? ’’ “ You ought to know, John, since you furnished the house for her. She, poor dear old thing, always speaks of you as though you were a sort of deputy-Providen#e. We could all be housed safely and snugly there, you see, till you came back again, and you would feel quite comfortable in your mind about us. With a good house over our head, and the dearest old woman in Christendom to look after us, and Tony’s education going on, why, there will not be so very much to complain of, after all.” Dalton’s mind had wandered to Brown Street, which, in spite of his late inquiry, he remembered very well. When Kate and Jenny emerged from childhood, and Tony was sent to school, and there was no longer need of Nurse Haywood’s services, instead of pensioning that faithful and affectionate woman — the same who had given Jenny, by-the-by, her favourite desk — Dalton had bought the lease of a small house for her, and fitted it up for the reception of lodgers. The old lady preferred to get her own living — she always “liked to be doing summut,” she said ; “ and could never abide being idle ” — rather than “ to take wages for doing nothing ; ” and it was now fortunate indeed that she had been provided for in this way. The happiest days of her life were those in which her old mistress, or her young ladies, would drop in to take a dish of tea on an rJternoon, in her back-parlour, and talk over old times, while their fine carriage stood outside her door, to the admiration of the neighbours. As a general rule, “ carriage- people” did not come to Brown Street, which was not in a fashionable neighbourhood. It was in a northern suburb, new, and therefore comparatively clean, and Mrs. Haywood’s little mansion was the pink of cleanliness ; if she ever used strong language it was excited by the indignation against “them dratted blacks,” whom she regarded as a “Southerner” the living negro in rebellion. But this was a feature into which Dalton did not go ; it was the insignificance of the place and the poorness of its surroundings — not its cleanliness — that pre- sented themselves to his mind. He beheld his Edith, accus- tomed to luxurious dwellings, raiment, food, living out in this poor spot the remainder of her years; gradually forgotten by 170 FALLEN FORTUNES. tliG world in wLicli slio liad moved and been admired ; he saw his Kate, already the belle of many ball-rooms, though so young, become a household drudge ; he saw Jenny — the bright, courageous, stricken girl — fighting in vain against such enemies as poverty and solitude ; he saw Tony, shut out from the class to whom he belonged by nature as well as birth, and growing up a City clerk. It was a picture, every detail of which inflicted upon him pain and remorseful pity. He could not face his Edith’s future with the courage that she faced it for herself. When she said that “ there would not be so much to complain of, after all,” he could not mirror back her smile, nor add one word of comfort to swell the meagre stream of her content. Her plan, however, pitiable as it might be, was practicable ; and all that could be done.^ that could be set about with hand or brain, in his sad case, was welcome to him. He wrote at once to his lawyer, with regard to the immediate disposal of their house in town, and his wife wrote to Hurse Haywood, as she was still called. By the time their replies could be received, there would be no reason for further concealment ; and if it were possible, Dalton wdshed to see matters arranged for his dear ones before quitting England. Alas, how much precaution, prudence, providence for others, is thrown away in this world ; though, let us hope, the affection that has dictated them will be taken into account by Him who provides for all. What tears are shed for only seeming woes ! What bulwarks are set up with infinite pain and loss, when, in fact, there are no assailants ! What energies are wasted upon a shadow ! That very day, when the afternoon po^t came in, John Dalton marked his friend and host look up at him from a letter with a look that told him his secret was discovered. He was always on the watch for such a look. It seemed to him strange that even the very servants were unaware that he was a ruined man, and now it had come at last. It was scarcely to be expected that some echo of the tidings which he had confided to so many wmuld not return to Riverside before he could get away; and so it had happened. Holt and Tony wmre in the room at the time ; the boy had just received a letter from a school-friend, who had preceded him to Eton, which painted the joys of that famous school, and he read scraps of it aloud in triumph. “ What fun it must be, papa, must it not ? ” THE POWER OF OLD TIMES, 171 And with no nnnsnal tenderness (though his heart was nigh to breaking) he had answered : “ Yes, my boy ; ” and then stepped out of doors alone, in expectation of Campden following him, which he did immediately. Dalton heard the familiar footsteps on the gravel-walk behind him moving quicker than usual, and felt the friendly hand laid upon his shoulder ; and he stopped, but did not turn his head. Perhaps he had some suspicion — so bitter had he become of late — that his old friend’s face might be already changed towards him. “ Why, Dalton, my dear old fellow, what is this ? A man has written to me this afternoon, and tells me ’’ “ It is true, Campden,” answered the other, hoarsely ; “ I know the new's he gives you. I am ruined ! ” “ Good God, John, I hope things are not so bad as that ! ” There was a genuine and tender sympathy in the inquiry ; and yet there was something, too, that jarred on Dalton’s ear, so sensitive had sorrow made it. If things had not been so desperate with him then, it seemed this man would have taken the matter coolly enough. “ Things are quite as bad, Campden ; they could scarcely by any possibility be worse.” “ That is what one always thinks when one is knocked over for the first time. Yet one often finds there are no bones broken, after all. How has it all happened ? My correspondent writes it was a mine — things, in my opinion, as dangerous in speculation as in warfare.” “Yes; but, unfortunately, I did not consult you, answered Dalton, coldly. “Well, my dear fellow, do it now,” returned the other, good- naturedly. “ ‘ Two heads are better than one,’ even though the one may be the longer. Don’t be savage with me, for it is I, remember, who have cause for annoyance rather than you. I mean,” added he, gently, since Dalton remained silent, “ I might well complain, as your oldest friend, that you have been applying to others for assistance in this matter, instead of first coming to me. “ I knew you could not help me, Campden — except in one way,” answered Dalton, in a softened tone ; “ and I v/as proud, and wished my ruin to remain unknown until I had left vour roof.” “ I should have hoped that my roof would have been as your own, John, and myself as yourself. There, there — let us come 172 FALLEN FORTUNES. into the shrubbery. How about this mine ? Where is it ? Or does it exist at all ? Sometimes they don’t.’’ It is in Brazil — the Itara. Hear the great St. Jose mine.” “The Lara ! Why, my good fellow, that has burst up alto- gether. It was a plant, it seems, from the very first. How, in ihe fiend’s name, did you ever get connected with such a thing ? ” “ It is scarcely worth while to go into that,” replied Dalton, doggedly. “ I am connected with it. Everything I have in the world is in it.” “ Then you have been swindled.” “ Very likely. I am not quite sure, however, how the matter stands. I am going over by the next Rio mail, to see after it myself.” “ You are going to Brazil ? ” “ Yes ; that is fixed. It is at least better than going to the devil, which I should feel that I was doing every day that I stopped here in England with my hands before me.” “ And your wife ? ” “ She knows it all — knows that I have lost my fortune and her own by my cursed folly, and that I have just this slender hope left of retrieving it. She has made up her mind to part with me. She has ten times my courage, and a hundred times my worth. God help her ! ” “ I say Amen to that, Dalton. But why should she not stay here — she and the girls — while you are away ? I am sure Julia ” “Thank you; but that is impossible,” interrupted Dalton. “ It is, nevertheless, an unspeakable comfort to me to know that I leave her and hers with such a friend to counsel and assist them as yourself. You will be true and tender to them, I know ; you will remember old times, George, and your old friend, even if you never see him more.” “ So help me Heaven, I will, John ! ” answered the other. The two friends grasped one another’s hands in silence. Heither of them were men much given to sentimental remi- niscence ; but at that moment the door that shuts out the Past swung back upon its noiseless hinge, to each disclosing many a sunny picture — a grass-plot in a college court ; a lime-walk musical with bird and bee ; a river running under many a bridge, past sloping gardens ; snug chambers, loud with youthful revelry. They had lived among such scenes together long ago, and had had such joys in common as only youth on whom no shadow of coming care had need to rest can know. The hand MRS. CAMPDEN^S VIE IV OF THE MATTER. 173 that reaches through the mist of time and touches hearts was on them both. For half a second they were boys again ; then habit resumed its sway. “You will draw on me, of course, Dalton, in case you should need money out yonder,’’ observed Campden ; and he threw his thumb over his shoulder to indicate the geographical position of Brazil. “ I hope that will not be necessary,” said the other, smiling. “ I hope so too ; no one wants to be drawn upon; only, if you reqnire a banker, at least give me the refusal ” “ Hollo, Tony, what is it ? ” It was a relief to both men, but especially to the one w^ho had thus tendered his good services, and was beyond measure appre- hensive of being thanked, that their conversation was thus interrupted. The boy ran to them eager- eyed and flushed with haste — a very Ganymede of a messenger. ‘‘ Please, papa, mamma wants you when you are disengaged.” ‘‘And what is your hurry about, young master ? ” inquired Mr. Campden. “ Dr. Curzon is here, and he says I may ride his pony.” He was off again like a shot. “ That is a likely boy of yours, Dalton.” “ Yes, poor lad. He little thinks that he will never see Eton.” “ But why should he not ? It’s a pity such a clever little chap as that — quite a chip of the old block, I’m sure — should be deprived of his schooling. Come, I’m his godfather ; let me take so much at least upon my shoulders. You are not too proud for that, surely ? If you are, I shall see what Mrs. Dalton can do with you.” “ You are most kind, indeed, George. The fact is, Edith and I had arranged that Jenny w^as to be his tutor for the present ; but I shall be very glad to spare her.” “ Then that’s settled. I^ay, I won’t keep you from your wife another moment ; so let’s say no more about it. The boy shall not be balked of going to Eton.” CHAPTER XXI. MRS. CAMPDEX’S VIEW OP THE MATTER. Xever since that crushing blow had fallen upon his fortunes did John Dalton feel so light of heart as after those few words from his old college friend. From him at least he had met with 174 FALLEN FORTUNES. genuine and hearty sympathy ; his assistance had been not only readily offered, but had been such as he could accept ; and behind all the frank manifestation of generosity he felt there lay a fund of kindly feeling towards his dear ones upon which he could rely with confidence when he should be sundered from them. True, he had had no cause to believe that things would have been otherwise ; George Campden had always shown him- ^ self a generous, manly fellow, but the occasions when he had ( done so had offered themselves so long ago, that Dalton, sore with the rubs of Fate, and prone to suspicions, had almost doubted him. Twenty years of married life might well, he had thought, under the circumstances, have altered the man, and made him cold and prudent. But now he felt that he had done his old friend wrong. Edith, as he had concluded, was in her own room, for when they talked together now it was never, as of old, in apartments where they were liable to interruption ; and he ran upstairs, as he had been wont to do before misfortune clogged his heels, three steps at a time. Tie had some good news to tell her at last — namely, of the generous kindness of ‘‘ Uncle George,’^ wdio had been always a great favourite with her ; and he was eager to see her smile again. To his astonishment, he found the two girls with their mother. ‘‘ Oh papa ! cried they, throwing their arms about his neck, we arc so sorry. “ What, YOU have told them, Edith ! ” exclaimed he, reproach- fully. “ It was better they should learn it from my lips than from any other’s, dearest,” answered she, ‘^and that they would have done to-night. I am almost sure that Julia heard of it by this afternoon’s post.” “ That is strange, for so did Campden. Well, my darlings, so your mother has told }ou all. Can you ever forgive your father ? ” “ Forgive you,” answered Kate. “ What does he mean, mamma ? ” Then you have not told them the worst, Edith ? ” Yes, indeed, she has,” put in Jenny, quickly, “ and that is what we are crying about. To think that you should be going to Brazil ! ” “ But, my poor Jenny, do you know why I’m going ? ” in- quired Dalton, in desperation. “ Of course we do : to get back the money that has been so MRS. CAMFREN'S VIEW OF THE MATTER, 175 unfortunately lost. You don^t suppose Kate and I were crying upon account of the money ! ” “ Alas, my sweet children, I have ruined you ! ” “ Not at all, papa ; we are going to he poor, like many other people much better than ourselves — or at least than myself — continued Jenny, modestly correcting herself. “ This state of poverty will not last long, because either you will be coming back to us from Brazil with a gold mine in your pocket, or Kitty will marry the Marquis of Carrabas ; and even if those events don’t happen, I can make lace, which Mrs. Campden says her good friend Lady Mary prices at six guineas a yard ; I can make a yard in three days, which is twelve guineas a week, even with- out being driven to work on Sundays.” Dalton understood it all, as he thought ; it was a conspiracy of the girls with their mother to put the best face they could upon affairs, in order that he might keep up his heart ; but as a matter of fact, there had been no such arrangement. The first thought of both the girls had been for their parents, and their bitterest reflection was that their father must needs leave them all so long, and at such short notice. “ What will mamma do without him when baby comes ? ” was the question that each put to herself, and did not dare to answer. “ To think that the first tears I have ever caused my darlings to shed,” said Dalton, still embracing them, “ should be such bitter ones ! ” “ I am not going to cry any more at allf said Jenny, wiping her eyes, and speaking very boldly. ‘‘ Only you must submit to be made as much of as possible by all of us until you go, papa.” That was to be his punishment, it seemed — so far as they were concerned — for having ruined them all. “ Does Tony know P ” inquired Dalton, gently. ‘‘ Well, not the worst — not about your going to Brazil,” said Kitty. “We informed him that we had lost all our money, and he said he Avas very sorry ; but the fact was he was so impatient to have a ride upon the doctor’s pony, that he could not afibrd to give much attention to the other matter.” “ But when you just sent him, Edith, to say you wished to speak to me, do you mean to say ” “ That he knew we were all ruined ? Oh, certainly,” put in Jenny, laughing. “ Perhaps, if we had told him that he would not now be sent to Eton, that would have dashed him a little ; but the boy . looked so pleased and eager about his ride, that we had not the heart to tell him that.” 176 FALLEN FORTUNES, “ That is fortunate,” said Dalton, smiling, ‘‘ for as ifc happens, it will not now be neeessary to do so. His godfather has volun- teered to put him to Eton.” Tlien he related to them how splendidly “ Uncle George ” had behaved in the family crisis ; tidings which were received with rapture, but without surprise. “ Whenever Uncle George is left to himself,” said Jenny, con- fidently, “ he always does the right thing.” This invalid young lady had a way of dispensing praise and blame which suggested finality, if not infallibility ; and in the present case there was universal adhesion. “ The doctor is here, you say,” said Dalton ; “ have you seen him to-day, Jenny ? ” “ Oh yes, papa — that is why mamma sent for you.” “Good heavens! what is the matter?” inquired Dalton, anxiously. “ Nay, my dear, there is nothing wrong with Jenny,” put in her mother, assuringly ; “ the doctor had something to say upon quite another matter. Do you know, I am pretty sure that he knows, or at least suspects ” “ Very likely,” said Dalton, as indifferently as he could, but not without a blush, as he thought of how, but for that same doctor, these dear ones would have had what would have seemed to them a worse thing to battle against than ruin. If his going to Brazil affected them so much, how would it have been with them had he died 1 Wife and children, he now understood, took a different view of life from that which his own standpoint had presented to him ; and as he had nothing but the interests of those belonging to him at heart, he was thankful for their sakes that his intention of quitting existence had been frustrated. He had not yet owned to himself that he was ashamed of having entertained it, yet he blushed to remember that the doctor knew of that attempt to cut his cable. Edith naturally misconstrued his rising colour. ‘ You mustn’t mind the doctor, John ; if we could confine the knowledge of our calamities to such men as Uncle George and him, it would be a comfort indeed. What he came to tell us was that old Mr. Landell was dead ; ‘ And if you happen to know of anyone,’ he said, ‘ who wants to rent a charming little residence as cheap as dirt, quite out of the world, and in a little paradise of its own — with the best of living doctors within ten minutes’ walk of it — there is the Nook in Sanbeck vacant.* I am almost certain, by his manner, that he intended the proposi- tion for our personal consideration.” MRS. CAMPDEN^S VIEW OF THE MATTER. 177 “ Perhaps he did, my dear,” said Dalton, thoughtfully ; ‘‘ it is, no doubt, a matter to be considered. Your letter has not yet gone to Nurse Haywood, and we must think about it. It is a question of town or country.” “ We could live in Sanbeck,” said Edith, ‘‘as cheaply as in Brown Street, I should suppose.” “And you would be near your friends, my darling — Campden and his wife; you would not be without society.” “ I shall not care much about society, dear John, till you come home again,” answered Edith, gravely; “ I shall be quite con- tent with the companionship of the girls and Tony, and shall have no wish for more.” Dalton and his wife were not quite at one in this matter ; he was speculating as to whether this friend and that would drop away from them in their altered circumstances, while with her, friends had become of small account ; she clung more than ever to her own belongings ; and hence it was that her husband’s sudden determination to go abroad had so utterly prostrated her. She fought on bravely, as we have seen, but it was almost like the brave Witherington in the ballad. “But think how charmingly out of the world we shall find ourselves at Sanbeck ! ” put in Jenny, quickly : “ it is not likely that anyone will come and look after us there, unless they are really fond of us. And what beautiful scenes there will be for Kitty to sketch ! ” “ And think how full the house will be of books, mamma, since, I suppose, we shall take it furnished,” urged Kitty ; “so that Jenny will be in the seventh heaven ! ” They knew that their mother preferred the country to the town, but also that she would never allow herself to be in- fluenced by her own predilections ; she would be moved, however, easily enough by the wishes of her girls, and therefore they thus pleaded, each as her nature dictated, for the other. “ Of course it must depend upon the rent and so on,” said Mrs. Dalton, yielding with the difficulty she always experienced ' when what was sought was in accordance with her own sweet I wishes. This plan of burying herself and the girls in this I secluded valley until her husband should return and disinter ' them, recommended itself to her very strongly. She had never ^ liked London, notwithstanding that she had met with such wel- i come there, and but for her husband’s sake, would have always sought retirement. “ There will be certainly one great advantage; I we shall always have kind Dr. Curzon near us, for dear Jenny,’* 178 FALLEN FORTUNES. Jenny was generally somewliat impatient of being supposed to need medical superintendence, but in this case she made no protest ; it was, in fact, an inexpressible comfort to her to think that Dr. Curzon was to be near them, not upon her own account, but on her mother’s, about whom she had sad misgivings ; ap- prehensions, indeed, so terrible that she scarcely dared to con- template them even in her prayers. Then the doctor was admitted to the family conclave, and made his statement. Old Joe Landell had died that very morn- ing ; and his widowed sister from London, Mrs. Grant — who had been staying in the house during his late illness, and who was his sole relative and heiress — had been very communicative to him at various times. She had informed him, amongst other things, that she should let the house as it stood, if she could find a tenant who would not be too exacting in the matter of repairs. As for the old books, she was told they would not pay carriage to London, and might ‘‘ bide” where they were. She had a sort of hereditary pride in the place, which prevented her from parting with it altogether ; yet she had but small expecta- tion of letting it, except to ‘‘some artist or such-like,” in the summer months ; so that it was certain she would welcome a yearly tenant almost at any price. “ I thought you might be acquainted with some family, my dear Mrs. Dalton, concluded the doctor, indifferently, with whom economy might be an object — ^for certainly there is no cheaper place than Sanbeck in all England ; you can’t spend money there even if you would — who like retirement, and have a taste for the picturesque ; who are studious, and capable of amusing themselves when left to their own resources ; moreover, if any member of it happens to require medical attendance, the very best advice is almost within call.” “ You seem to have got it all up very pat,” observed Dalton, rather audaciously, considering what had caused his friend to take so great an interest in the matter. “ Why, the fact is I promised to write an advertisement out for the disconsolate heiress. She is one who takes time by the forelock, and is not so much inclined to give way to morbid sentiment as some of us,” answered the other, significantly. “ Come, doctor, confess,” said Mrs. Dalbon, laying her hand upon his arm, “ you had m in your eye for this strong-minded widow’s tenants all along.” “ My good lady, I don’t know what you mean by ‘ all along : ’ if you would suggest that I killed off poor Jonathan Landell in MJ^S, CAMPDEN'S VIEW OF THE MATTER. 179 order to accommodate my friends with a residence in this county, I reject and repudiate the imputation. He died in a natural way, poor fellow, by the visitation of — Dr. Jefferson The effect of a vigorous and wholesome mind — which is at the same time sympathetic — when it is brought into connection with minds depressed, is like that of a disinfectant among impurities ; it begets a purer and lighter atmosphere ; and thus, after half an hour’s talk with the good doctor, who was full of practical ideas of all sorts, the entire Dalton family found themselves in better case ; he had lifted the whole house — as the “ removers ” do in the United States — on to another standpoint, from which the future looked more tolerable. Perhaps one of the strongest reasons that actuated each of them, more or less, to take the doctor’s advice as respected the Hook, was the consideration that they would thereby secure for themselves — independently of his professional skill — so friendly a neighbour. The profession of medicine is not socially thought very highly of, notwithstanding that “ the first true gentleman that ever breathed ” was also the Great Physician ; and yet I know of none the members of which have so good a right — if delicacy and generosity can confer it — to hold the highest place. At the great Day of Account, when the Tables of Precedence are otherwise arranged than by the Herald’s College, it is my belief that there will be a houleverse- ment as respects the Faculty. At the front door stood the doctor’s pony — a good deal warmer than usual from his unaccustomed exertions under Tony’s guidance — and that young gentleman himself, in a great state of excitement, from having taken a successful fly over a hurdle, held up for him for that purpose by Jeff and a groom. “Well, Tony, did you enjoy your gallop ? ” inquired his father. “ Oh, yes, papa.” “ I am afraid you will never have a pony of your own, my boy, as we once intended,” said Dalton, patting his glowfing cheek. “ I know that, papa, and I don’t mind a bit ; I was just telling Jeff so.” “ Oh, Mr. Dalton, I am so sorry,” said Jeff; and the young- man held out his hand. If there had been fifty thousand pounds in it, the action could not have been more gracious or the tone more tender. “You are a good fellow,” said Dalton, warmly; and nothing more was said between them about the change in his circum- stances. i8o FALLEN FORTUNES. Bat by this time there was tattle enough about it at River- side. Some may pronounce the sagacity of vultures for detecting what is amiss to be unparalleled ; but the manner in which a man’s misfortunes get abroad, and are pounced upon by other members of the human family, is remarkable also. Whether by eye, or ear, or sense of smell, the thing is conveyed, I know not ; but not a soul in Mr. Campden^s household was ignorant of what had occurred to “ those poor Daltons within half an hour of his own dis- covery of the fact. Of course Mrs. Campden was among the first to know it ; her husband told her the details, when he came in from his talk with Dalfcon, making a most unaccustomed visit to her boudoir for that purpose. “Good God! Julia, is it not terrible? Our poor friends are as good as ruined.” And then he stated the whole cir- cumstances. “ It is very deplorable indeed,” returned his wife, but without showing any excess of sorrow in voice or gesture ; “ and yet not so sad as it is wicked. I should think that man would never forgive himself. The idea of his squandering his wife’s money as well as his own. I call him a scoundrel I ” “You had better not do so before witnesses,” observed her husband, dryly, “ because it is libellous.” “But don’t you call it most wicked and most unprincipled, George, yourself ? ” inquired Mrs. Campden, with a little less acidity. There was something of unaccustomed independence, and even worse, in her husband’s tone that alarmed her. His motto was ordinarily “ Defence, not defiance but on the present occasion he seemed to have adopted a bolder cognizance. She was almost certain he was in one of those rare fits of “obsti- nacy,” to which he had not given way for years, and which she had flattered herself her skilful treatment had eradicated. “ Have you any excuse to make for such a man, Mr. Campden ? ” “ I am not thinking of excuses ; I am thinking of how to help him,” was the quiet rejoinder. “I hope you are not going to lend him anything; because that would be sending good money after bad.” “1^0, I am not.” “ And as for giving him any sum right out, that would be an absolute encouragement of gambling and dishonourable con- duct. Indeed, I should hope Mr. Dalton would be too much of a gentleman to take it.” MRS. CAMPDEN^S VIEW OF THE MATTER. i8i The arguments were mixed, and even a little inconsistent ; but it was impossible to doubt the conviction of the advocate. “ I don’t know, Mr. Campden, whether you are paying me the compliment of listening to my expostulations ? ” “Yes, yes; I hear you. You need not be afraid of my giving John Dalton money, because he would not like it. I did offer to lend him some — I should have been ashamed of myself not to have done as much for so old a friend — but he refused it.” “Well, well, I am glad he has shown some good feeling,” said Mrs. Campden, in a tone of unmistakable relief. “ I am sure, whatever can be done — in reason — for his wife and chil- dren, I shall be glad to further.” “For God’s sake be kind to them in your manner, Julia ! ” said her husband, pleadingly. “In my manner? Well, really, Mr. Campden, I think you might have dispensed with that piece of advice. I hope I know how to behave myself towards my guests, and especially when they have been stricken by misfortune.” “Doubtless, my dear — doubtless.” The momentary courage with which commiseration for his old friend had inspired him was gradually ebbing away from him ; the impress of that worn, pained face, as he had just seen it (and that he had remembered in its youth so bright and sparkling), was fading from his retina, and in its place were this woman’s hard, pale eyes and imperative glance ; he felt, with a sort of shame, that he was returning, under their inflaence, into slavery. “ You mean, I am sure, nothing but kindness, Julia.” “ Mean ? Mr. Campden, I have never exjpressed anything else, I hope. I may have had my own opinion concerning Mr. Dalton all along, but I have treated him with a courtesy that was, I am sorry to say, not at all times reciprocated. You have always entertained what I believed to be an exaggerated opinion of his talents ” “ My dear, all the world was of the same opinion,” put in Mr. Campden. “ Well, let us hear what the world says novj. Foolish people, of course, are easily dazzled by a superficial sparkle that passes for wit ; but I have heard persons of judgment and high position — such as Lord Wapshot — say they could never understand what there was to admire in the man.” “ I believe that,*^ said her husband, gently ; “ poor John had his detractors, no doubt.” She looked at him suspiciously, but i 82 FALLEN FORTUNES. the twinkle tliat usually accompanied his little strokes of satire was not in his eye. “ Of course he had, Mr. Campden, and deserved to have them. Indeed, when this disgrace comes to he known “ I did not say there was any disgrace in the matter, Julia.” 1^0, George, but 1 did ; and most people, I fancy, will be of my way of thinking. At all events, the man has speculated not only with his own money, but other people’s.” “ I never heard that. It is true he risked his wife’s money ; but I thought — perhaps it is only a fiction of the law" — that man and wife were one.” “ If you choose to split hairs like that, Mr. Campden, it is idle to argue with you. The plain fact is that Mr. Dalton’s rashness — or gambling, or disgraceful conduct of some kind, call it by what name you like — has brought himself and his family to utter ruin ; and the question is, how we ourselves ought to proceed in the matter.” “ You mean, I suppose, as to how we can best help them ? ” “ I mean nothing of the kind. Of course we shall help them. You are always thinking of pounds, shillings, and pence, Mr. Campden, and rarely look beyond them. But to me, at least, the matter presents itself on much higher grounds — that of principle.” “ Then they’ll never get anything,” observed Mr. Campden, naively. I beg your pardon, my dear,” added he, hastily, though the thunder gathered on the little woman’s brow, and the lightning darted from her eyes ; ‘‘I mean nothing offensive, I assure you ; but I have observed that w"hen anything is done ‘ on principle,’ it is always a hard thing ; the word is never used except to palliate something harsh or unjust, or to excuse a man from putting his hand into his pocket. And— and — I wish you wouldn’t be so fond of using it, Julia.” “Well, upon my honour! Mr. Campden, are you in your seven senses ? ” “ Unfortunately I am,” murmured the unhappy man; “I wish I had but six of them. When a man falls in love, he is blind, they say, though his eyes are opened very soon afterwards. When he is married he should be deaf.” “I have never been so insulted in my life, sir! ” continued Mrs. Campden, in a voice shrill with passion, “ and all because of a worthless fellow. I have the misfortune to be distantly related to Mr. Dalton, but that is no reason why I am to put up with his impertinence, and no reason why we are to impo- MRS, CAMPDEN^S VIEW OP THE MATTER, 1^3 verisli ourselves in order to replenish his purse, and supply his defalcations. I shall let him know his true position, you may depend upon it; he shall not give himself any more airs of superiority here.’^ “ Take care what you do, woman — yes, woman ! Damn ifc, madam, you shall find I am master in my own house for once. If you insult my old friend — in his ruin — under my roof ; if you take advantage of his fall to wreak your spite, and pay out old grudges ; if you dare to do if, madam ” Here he stopped, overcome with a passion to which hers had been but as water is to wine. “You had better not say anything more, George,’^ observed Mrs. Campden. Her tone was far from menacing ; she wore an “ injured ” air ; for the first time in her life she was frightened at her husband. “ I hope it will not be necessary,” returned he, with a certain dignity. “ I have done. Our guests are probably leaving us in a day or two. Dalton is going to Brazil, perhaps never to come home again. Be kind to him, if not for his own sake, yet for mine ; I ask it as a personal favour. As for his wife and chil- dren, the innocent victims of his rashness, I need not bespeak for them your tenderest sympathy. I am sorry if I have used any expressions which have given you pain, Julia*; ” and Uncle George held out his hand. “ I am sorry, too,” returned Mrs. Campden, stiffly, and taking no notice of the olive branch thus extended to her. “ The con- versation was none of my seeking. That is Mary’s step coming along the passage.” It was seldom, indeed, that his daughter’s presence was not welcome to Mr. Campden ; but on this occasion he passed out of the boudoir by a side-door, and thereby avoided her. The good-natured, honest fellow was full of chagrin and discontent ; angry with his wife, but still more with himself. He felt that he had mismanaged matters ; perhaps his little woman — as he was wont to term her when matters were going well between them — had not been so much to blame as his own clumsiness ; he had obviously alarmed her, too, and it was a cowardly thing for a man to frighten a woman. His intention had been to bespeak all her good offices in favour of this unhappy family, and he felt that instead of that he had aroused a slumbering enmity against its head. She would be good, of course, to the wife and children ; but he knew that he should feel a sense of relief when his old friend, John Dalton, had left his roof. i64 ALLEN FOkTVNES^ CHAPTER XXIL A PATRONESS. If anyone conld have proved to demonstration — could Lave brought it home to her — that Mrs. Campden of Riverside had committed even so much as a peccadillo, she would have been astonished with a great astonishment. It was true, whenever she went to church — and she went thither with the utmost regularity — that she called herself, or permitted the clergyman to call her, without remonstrance, a miserable sinner. Bat those words are always used, or at least applied by those who hear them, in a certain parliamentary sense. Mrs. Campden often thought herself miserable, but never a sinner. She could thank Heaven — people had heard her do it — that she had always done her duty in that elevated station of life to which it had pleased Providence to call her. She supported the rector, she patronised the curate, she was affable to the doctor ; she not only, as I have said, went to church herself, but was the cause of going thither in others ; the bread and blankets which she distri- buted in sufficient quantities at Christmas were reserved for those poor folks alone who attended the parish church : she did not heap coals upon the heads of those undeserving ones who attended chapel, or resisted the temptations of all places of wor- ship equally ; her right hand knew very well what her left hand was about, and neither indulged in indiscriminate almsgiving. Whatever she did, as she had justly boasted to her husband, she did upon principle — and also what she left undone. If she did not command respect, she was at least eminently respectable. That she had once inspired love in a man like George Campden was one of those inexplicable social phenomena at which we stand astonished as at a conjurer’s trick ; the thing has hap- pened, for we have seen it with our ej es, but how, in the name of wonder, did it come about ? Don’t we see every day genial, good-natured men tied for life to abominable women — scolds, grumblers, affected dolls, viragos ; as we see — though much more rarely — charming women mated with dullards or scoun- drels. Opportunity, a limited range of choice, a pique, must be, as old Burton says, “causes.” If there was no other class of women in the world but that — unhappily a large one — to which Mrs. Campden belonged, and if the responsibility of carrying on the human race rested with myself alone, the world would come to an end ; I would never marry. If she importuned me, I should A PATRONESS. 185 feply : “ Madam, I must decline the temptation — uj^on prin- ciple.’^ Fortunately, tastes differ ; and this class of woman does get married. I believe I know — though I have not the courage to write it — how it is done. Of course Mrs. Campden was jealous of her husband ; and since he gave her no cause in the way of flirtations, she grudged him his friendships. She had accused him a hundred times of letting John Dalton “come between her and him.” When a man marries, she gave him to understand that he should cleave to his wife, and cast off all old entanglements of every descrip- tion ; and how he could sit in the smoking-room talking over old times with his friend — she had no high opinion of college life, and called them “ humiliating antecedents ” — in place of retiring at a reasonable hour in well-principled company, was inexplicable to her. Of Mrs. Dalton she was jealous in another way : it was impossible that the most jaundiced eye could And fault with Edith’s manner, which was the perfection of gentle- ness and sweetness ; but she was envious of her popularity. She could not say that she laid herself out to secure the affec- tions of her host ; but she resented her winning them, all the same, as she resented her winning those of everybody else. It was wormwood to her to be obliged to confess to herself that not only in her own household, but in “ the county” — where, above everything, she wished to shine pre-eminent — Mrs. Dalton was by far the greater favourite. Lady Wapshot had actually complimented her — Mrs. Campden — upon her being able, summer after summer, to secure such charming guests as the Daltons at Riverside. “ They are certainly the most striking family — quite too delightful,” had been her ladyship’s verdict. “ I am told, that except Lord Clarendon, Mr. Dalton is the very best — what do you call it ? — raconteur. I confess I am quite in love with him. Then his wife, who I should be afraid is a little consumptive, is so sweet. And then Kitty — I assure you that last season, I have been informed, Kate Dalton might have ” — and then she had whispered into Mrs. Campden’s ear the rumour of a very magnificent j[>arti indeed. “ I don’t believe it,” answered that lady, a little rudely, con- sidering the rank of her companion, and her own veneration for it ; “at least, I can hardly credit it.” “ You may do so, however, for I had it upon the very best authority : the very best, Mrs. Campden — liis omnJ^ Mrs. Campden did not believe it any the more for this auda- cious corroboration; but the fact that such a story should have FALLEN FORTUNES. 1 86 got abroad, and be repeated by sueb a person as Lady Wapsbot, showed what a sensation Kitty Dalton must have made. Now, Mary Campden, though a little older, had come out ” in the same season as Kate, and had fallen, metaphorically speaking, rather flat. It was no wonder, then, that the maternal heart was sore as respected her child’s successful rival. As to Jenny, Mrs. Campden thought there was ‘‘a great deal too much fuss made about that girl and her ailments.’^ She could not help being an invalid, of course, but she should bow to the dispensations of Providence; and since it had pleased it to afflict her, she should he afflicted ; not come into society upon a spring couch, and carry on conversation upon her back in such a curious and alarming manner. Tony was little more than a child, and Mrs. Campden did not take much notice of chil- dren ; but from what she had seen of the boy, and his affection for Geoffrey Derwent, she regarded him with little favour. Thus it happened that Mrs. Campden — who had no great love, I think, for anybody save one individual — I can only place my love,’’ she would say, “ where I feel respect and then she would stroke and straighten herself in a very self -appreciative manner — entertained a feeling that was almost hostile towards her guests, the Daltons. She would indeed have been shocked if anyone had suggested that she rejoiced in their ruin ; but since it had pleased Heaven to thus afflict them, she was not one to find fault with its dispensations. Whether her husband had appealed to her or not, she would undoubtedly have assisted them ; but the pleasure that she professed to derive from it was not that of doing good, but of conferring a favour — perhaps even an obligation. She was certainly not displeased at suddenly finding herself in a superior social position to the woman whom everybody pronounced perfection, and whose daughter had cut out her own in London society. If the misfortunes of our friends give us pleasure, is it to be expected that those of our enemies — of those at least with whom we have any cause of quarrel — should not be grateful to us ? Undoubtedly, too. Uncle George’s well-meant intercession had done his clients harm. The only contest with her husband in which Mrs. Campden had been worsted — had been silenced by the great guns of his passion — was upon the Daltons’ account ; and she was not a woman to easily forgive those who had been, how^ever innocently, the cause of such a disgrace. She did not acknowledge, even to herself, that such was the state of her feelings ; but over her hard and bitter nature there A PATRONESS, 187 had suddenly grown, as respected her unhappy guests, a hard and bitter rind. It would have been difficult for some of them to have touched her heart with pity in any case, but it had now become impenetrable to all. ‘‘ Mamma, may I come in ? ” cried Mary, in tones of quite unaccustomed flurry and excitement ; and not even waiting for an answer, she came quickly into the room. “ What is the matter, my child ? ’’ was the quiet reply. ‘‘Oh, mamma, such a dreadful thing has happened, such a shocking misfortune ! Dear Katy has just been telling me that — that they are all ruined and the girl broke into a sob, over- come by genuine sorrow for her unhappy cousins. “It is very sad, of course, my dear Mary — very sad,’’ said Mrs. Campden, smoothing the folds of her dress as she sat in her chair, while Mary stood in tears by the mantelpiece ; “but I cannot say it is altogether unexpected. I suppose Katy did not tell you how it happened ? ” “ Well, yes. It seems Cousin John ” “ You mean Mr. Dalton,” interrupted her mother. “It is not on Im side of the house, remember, that we are related to the family.” “ Well, it seems he was taken in by some wicked people in a speculation. But, however, it matters little now, since they have lost all their money.” “ Pardon me, my child ; it matters a good deal. There are higher things in the world — as I have sometimes occasion to tell your father — than pounds, shillings, and pence. All persons who speculate are wicked ; and as for their being taken in, that is what the people who lose are always ready to say. Of course, Katy would not tell you — perhaps she does not know — how much Mr. Dalton is to blame in the matter ; but I know. My dear, that man is a scoundrel ! ” “ Oh, mamma ! Cousin John a scoundrel ! That is im- possible. We are all so fond of him, from papa down to the very servants.” “The friendship of the world, my child, we have the best authority for knowing, is not a proof of good principles.” “ Well, he is going away — at once — to Brazil,” answered Mary, with a fresh access of grief. Brazil seemed to the girl so far away that the sentiment nil nisi bon'umi applied to it as to the grave itself. “ Katy says her mother is almost broken- hearted ; and if you could have seen Katy herself just now, while she was telling me Oh, mamma, fancy if papa was going to Brazil ! ” FALLEN FORTUNES. i88 I hope, my dear, your father will never put himself under the necessity of going to any such place,** returned Mrs. Campden, with dignity. “ I am not reproving you for exhibit- ing such sincere sorrow — on the contrary, it does you credit ; but you should learn to put a little more restraint upon your feelings. After all, it is principle alone, remember, that should guide our actions.’* “ But if Mr. Dalton has acted ever so wrongly, what have his wife and children to do with it ? We should pity them the more, since it is surely all the worse for them to feel that he is to blame ; though, for my part, I can’t think such bad things of Cousin John. I am much rather inclined to believe that that stiff, hard-eyed Mr. Holt is at the bottom of it all.” “ My dear Mary, I cannot listen to this,” said her mother, rising majestically. Whatever we say or do, let us above all things be charitable. For all we know, Mr. Holt may be a very respectable person ; Mr. Dalton — if that goes for anything — always said he was, in his own sphere of life. He has nothing but his character to maintain him ; so, pray, be careful what you say. It is very unlikely, I must also take leave to say, that so very clever a man as Mr. Dalton is allowed to be should allow himself to be taken in by anybody. However, as you were about to say. Heaven forbid that we should visit his crimes upon the heads of his unfortunate wife and children ! Of course, they will have to give up their house in London — which will make us later, by-the-by, in going to town than usual — and live in a totally different way, in lodgings somewhere.” “ They are going to live in Sanbeck, mamma ; that is the one bit of good news in the whole black budget. Old Mr. Landed is dead, and his house is to be let — ‘ The Hook,’ you know — and they are all thinking of living there while Cousin John is away. It was that dear Dr. Curzon who suggested it ; and won’t it be delightful ? ” “ t canT fell that, my dear,” returned Mrs. Campden, with gravity, “ till I have seen how matters turn out.” “ But, at all events, mamma, we shall be able to see much more of them at Sanbeck than if they were up in Town — and to do much more for them. Why, Kitty and I can run over and see one another any afternoon ; and they can come and dine with us as often as they please.” “ My poor child, in your haste to be all that is kind,” said Mrs. Campden, kissing her daughter’s forehead, “you lose sight of what is practicable. Your cousins wdll soon be very poor ; A PATRONESS, 189 they could not come over the crags to dinner at night, but must drive round by the road ; and how are they to afford a horse and fly ? ” “ A horse and fly ! ’’ repeated Mary, lugubriously. If her mother had said “ a one-horse hearse,'^ it would scarcely have been a more melancholy suggestion. There were two little old maids from the county town — the Misses Bilger, daughters of Sir Robert Bilger, Baronet, who had ruined himself by keeping the county foxhounds, and whose memory, therefore, gave a certain aroma of consideration to his offspring ; and these shabby-genteel spinsters used to call once a year or so at River- side, in a one-horse fly. A more graphic description of actual poverty could scarcely have been given to Mary than this reference to that dreary vehicle which for the future her cousins would not be able to hire. It brought their utter ruin home to her imagination for the first time. “ Surely, mamma, we could send a carriage for them,” said she, presently, yet feeling, even before her mother’s reply, that even that step would not meet all the exigencies of the case. ‘‘ Of course we could, my dear, and no doubt we should do so occasionally ; but people don’t like using other people’s carriages, especially when they cannot afford to give a fee to the coachman. There is a sense of obligation ” “ Oh, mamma ! what, with us ? ” I think you will find it so, my dear, unless I have quite ' misread Mrs. Dalton's character. Whatever we do for her and hers must be done very delicately ; and I have a plan in my head which, without making them seem indebted to anybody, will be of the greatest help to them — indeed, will go a good way to restore what Mr. Dalton has so wickedly squandered.” “ Oh, ivhat is it ? ” cried Mary, clapping her plump hands, and quite forgetting, in her joy at the prospect of this remedy for his woes, to protest against the condemnation of her cousin. “ How nice of you, dear mamma, to have hit upon it.” “ It was only my duty to cast about for any help for these poor people,” returned Mrs. Campden, modestly ; “ but as for the plan itself, that must remain a secret until I find an opportunity for getting it carried out. Where is Mrs. Dalton, my dear ? I almost think she might have come to me herself, under circum- stances so momentous.” “ Indeed, mamma, I think she is hardly equal to doing that ; Kitty says she is sure she is only keeping up by a great effort. FALLEN FORTUNES. 190 But if you would go and speak fo her in her own room, I am sure she would take it kindly.’^ “ Then of course I will go, niy dear,’’ answered Mrs. Campden, rising ; “ in cases of trouble such as this, it is not for a person in my position to stand upon etiquette. My cousins will find me exactly the same in every respect as though this misfortune had not occurred to them.” As the good lady had no suspicion in her own mind but that this was a very commendable observation, it is to be hoped that it was credited to her as such in the celestial ledger ; and it is but fair to add that, though never more conscious of her posi- tion in the ‘‘ county ” than at that moment, she had never felt more truly afiable. If you had heard her hesitating knock at Mrs. Dalton’s chamber-door, you would have thought it was that of a country maid who had not yet acquired confidence in her intercourse with her superiors ; ard the voice in which she said, ‘‘ Cousin Edith, may I come in ? ” was the voice of a poor relation and dependent rather than the mistress of the house — and the situation. The knock and the voice were, hov/ever, sufficieutly recognisable within to send the two girls fiying into Jenny’s room, so that when Mrs. Campden entered she found her kinswoman and guest alone. That she had been weeping, the in- comer could perceive with a half-glance, but there were no tears in her eyes now ; indeed, her wan, grave face 'wore a smile as she rose up to meet her hostess — a gentle smile, yet not one of pleading, still less of apology or humiliation. If she and hers had been ruined by her husband’s rashness, that was no business of other people, and least of all of people who looked on her husband with disfavour. She was of too fine a nature to take it for granted that her cousin had any such notion in her mind at such a moment, yet she could not forget the conversa- tion they had held but yesterday together on board the yacht, and the expressions of opinion which had fallen from Mrs. Campden respecting a certain supposititious state of affairs, which had since been actually realised. If one word of reproach against John should fall now from Mrs. Campden’s lips, his wife would well know how to defend him. If she were told noio that he was without excuse, she would reply that he did not need excuse, since all those who had any right to look for one were satisfied. It was curious that so quiet and sweet a face should say all this in bidding another woman welcome ; but it did say so, and that so plainly that her visitor perceived it on the instant, and A PATRONESS, 191 altered her whole tactics — changed front in the face of the enemy. She had intended to be patronising ; but now she touched another spring in her mental machinery — which was arranged in a very handy and simple maimer — and became senti- mental on the spot. She began to gush. “ My darling Edith ! ’’ cried she, embracing her, “ this news has overwhelmed me quite.” “ Indeed, Julia, I hope not,” smiled the other, returning her caress, though with a little less of demonstration. “We have had a crushing blow, but it has not prostrated us, and I hope it will not bear more hardly on our friends.” “ Ah, my dear, you are so courageous. I always said you would be the bravest of women, if a necessity arose for your being brave ; though, of course, I could not foresee what a mis- fortune was in store for you. It is a comfort, indeed, to see you so steadfast. My only fear is that it is the excitement which keeps you up, and that, when that has passed away, and the dull sense of calamity settles down upon you But there, why should we anticipate such a misfortune ? ” “ Why, indeed, Julia ? Only you should rather say. Why should you ? for indeed I, for my part, have no intention of suc- cumbing, as you suggest. The children ” — her voice sank a little here — “ have quite made up their minds to make the best of it; indeed, their cheerful submission to what will without doubt be a hard and unlooked-for fate tells me how much we have yet to be thankful for.” “ And your husband, I hear, is going to Brazil ? ” That was a deadly thrust ; only a woman hard of heart and reckless of tongue could have given such a stab as that just because she had found independence where she had expected submission. The opportunity had been chosen with malicious sagacity ; she had struck at the moment when the other was weakened by that reference to her children. Even that bosom, guarded as it was by its brass of “principle” and pride, felt a touch of natural pity as she saw the colour fade from her guesBs cheek ; the haggard look of each delicate feature, as the shadow of the coming woe fell over it; the sense of desolation and despair. “ Yes,” answered Mrs. Dalton, in a low, faint voice, sudh as tortured martyrs use who are asked upon the rack to deny their faith, and will not, “my dear husband has to leave us. That will be the hardest thing of all.” “ But let us hope he will soon return,” said Mrs. Campden, 192 FALLEN FORTUNES. cheerfully. She must indeed have been touched by the other’s agony, or else she would surely never have expressed such an aspiration. “ A voyage in these days, even to Brazil, is a mere nothing. You will be occupied, too — and nothing makes time pass like occupation — in getting into your new house. I have just heard that you are all thinking of becoming our neighbours at the Nook. 1 may truly say, in that case, so far as we are concerned, ‘that it is an ill wind that blows nobody good.* ” “You are very kind,” said Mrs. Dalton, though she did not think so. It was borne in, even upon her gentle spirit, that no true sympathy was being administered to her. The conventional phrase, the rapid stream of talk — a continuity designed to pre- clude any interchange of genuine feeling — the tone and manner of the speaker, all convinced her of this ; yet she was grateful for such civility as was expressed, and also, perhaps, not dis- pleased that the other’s condolences wore such an every-day garb, since it was not necessary for her to play the hypocrite in acknowledging them. “ You will stay here, of course,” continued Mrs. Campden, “until your arrangements for entering upon your new house are completed.” “ I fear that will make some trespass on your hospitality, Julia ; we are rather a large party,” said Mrs. Dalton, hesi- tating. As a matter of fact, since her hostess had often impor- tuned her to make a longer stay before returning to town, she had taken this offer for granted ; she had not understood how, in the case of such old friends, a reverse of fortune should place their mutual relations on another basis, far less that they should commence anew. “ Don’t speak of trespass, my dear Edith. In an establish- ment like ours, a few persons more or less make no appreciable difference ; while to put off our going to London for a week or two would really make no difference to us worth mentioning.” “ This was perfectly true — if it is necessary to say so of any speech made by a person of such high principles as Mrs. Camp- den ; it certainly would make no difference, as the departure of herself and her husband for town was to be delayed, in any case, for a month to come. It was only Mary who had been going up at once with the Daltons. “ From what Dr. Curzon tells us,” said Mrs. Dalton, “ I think we might be able to take up our quarters in the Nook within three weeks. John thinks it would not be necessary for me to return to Cardigan Place ; but he will run up there to-morrow, A PATRONESS. m and make arrangements for the sale, and — and for securing his berth on board the vessel. It is very hard to be parted from him just now, when he is so soon to leave me ; but my accom- panying him would cost money, and I don’t feel justified ” “ You are quite right,” broke in Mrs. Campden, approvingly ; “ one can’t begin the work of retrenchment too soon. I am so glad — though I quite expected it — to find you so wise and prudent in this matter. I daresay, my dear Edith,” added she, dropping her voice, ‘‘you have had the courage to look not only the present in the face, but the future also.” “ Of course I have thought of the future — God help me ! — how could I help thinking of it ? ” answered Mrs. Dalton, with just the least touch of bitterness. These platitudes of the pros- perous woman were growing almost insupportable to her. “Do you suppose that I have not reflected how, ten days hence, I must stand alone in the world, with my poor children clinging to me ? ” “ Just so ; it is about the children — at least one of them — that I was thinking.” “ Oh yes ; about dear Tony,” said Mrs. Dalton, brightening up. “ I ought to have thanked you for your husband’s kind intentions to him. His offer to send him to Eton was most generous, and has, of course, been gratefully accepted by us.” “ To Eton ! ” said Mrs. Campden, quickly. “ Yes. Was it not just like your husband’s kindness ? What ! has he not told you ? But that is like him, too. He would conceal his generous acts, if it was possible, even from his wife herself.” “Yes, Edith, it is all very like George, as you were saying,” observed her hostess, gravely ; “ he is impulsive and lavish enough, goodness knows Pi*ay don’t imagine,” added she, as she saw the colour rush into her companion’s face, “that I could grudge anything my husband did for you and yours. He should send Toby to Eton, by all means, if it would benefit the boy ; but consider — with his altered prospects — how unsuitable such an arrangement would be. I for my part should consider it a positive cruelty. The poor boy would only imbibe a taste for luxury that could never be gratified, and make acquaint- ances from whom circumstances must always separate him in after life.” “There is much, of course, to be said on that side of the question,” returned Mrs. Dalton, coldly (the word “lavish” had wounded her to the qpick, and if she had followed her own impulses, she would have declined all offers for Tony’s benefit 0 194 FALLEN FORTUNES. upon tlie spot ; ‘‘ but on the other hand, John has many friends who have sons at Eton, and he thinks it would be well, if he himself must needs drop out of the sphere in which he has always moved, that the connection should be maintained through Tony, for the boy’s sake. Fortune may smile upon us, even now ” “My dear Edith,” interrupted Mrs. Campden, “most ear- nestly do I hope it will. But let us not be the victims of illusion ; an expensive and fashionable school like Eton — unless, indeed, the lad is to be a colleger ; of course, if it is jiroposed to place him on the foundation, that is quite another matter.” “ I understand it was Mr. Campden’s intention, Julia, to place him in the same position as that he would have occupied if this misfortune had not befallen us.” Mrs. Dalton’s tone was calm, but her heart was failing; she had no false pride, but she well knew that the life on which poor Tony had set his heart — which it was such an inexpressible comfort to have heard that Uncle George’s kindness had secured for him — was not such as is passed by boys on the foundation ; the letters he had had from his young friends at that seat of learning had enlightened her upon that point ; above all, he was delicate, and there were hardships to be endured by “collegers,” to which “oppidans” were not exposed. It was foolish of her, of course, to' entertain such a predilection, but it must be remembered that she was a woman and a mother. “ Then, I must confess, Edith, I think my husband’s offer has been very injudicious,” observed Mrs. Campden, confidently. She was thoroughly aware of her companion’s reasons— if they could be called so — for her opinion, and would have entertained it herself, had their places been reversed ; so that she was able to rebut her arguments without their having been stated — a great advantage in all discussions. “ I have always heard,” continued she, “ that collegers are just as well born and as well bred as others, only their parents have but moderate means. Surely, my dear Edith, it will be among these that Anthony ” (the idea of shortening names “ for love and euphony ” was re- pugnant to Mrs. Campden) “ will find his more suitable place ; and though, doubtless, an oppidan’s life is the more luxurious, is it judicious to allow a poor boy to be petted and pampered for a year or two, who will afterwards have to make his own way in the world and rough it ? ” The mistress of Riverside had always confidence in her own A PATRONESS;, *95 view of affairs, but it was not always, as in this case, that tbe strength of the argument did really lie upon her side. Her opponent, too, was secretly conscious that it did so ; perhaps the strongest motive she had had for accepting Mr. Campden's offer on behalf of Tony was that, for the present, one member of her family at least should have no cause to drink of the cup of bitterness that must needs be the portion of all the rest. Why should the smile be banished from the face of her darling boy, since it could be kept there, perhaps, till smiles returned to all of them ? “lam sure you perceive the reasonableness of what I have pointed out,” continued Mrs. Campden, clasping her hands in triumphant superiority, and regarding her victim, with head aside, like a magpie who has just picked another bird’s eye out. “ Perhaps we had better leave the question of the boy’s schooling to our husbands,” sighed Mrs. Dalton ; “ I think men know more about such matters than we do.” Mrs. Campden smiled a scornful smile. She had always despised her companion for having neither a proper spirit nor a will of her own ; but this open acknowledgment of inferiority to the opposite sex was in her eyes something worse than con- temptible. “ Well, well, my dear, we will discass this matter another time. To benefit your boy will only be one of our pleasures as respects you and yours. I hope I shall be able to do something, and much more than this, for — another.” Mrs. Dalton looked up quickly with inquiring eyes. There had been an unmistakable significance in the tone of her hostess. It was clear that she had some particular benefit in her mind, or a benefit to some particular person. Her face was indicative of a certain sense of her own sagacity, which announced a plan fixed and approved, and her eager eyes evinced her desire to communicate it. Yet, so far from giving her any encouragement, Mrs. Dalton replied, a little hurriedly : “You are very good, I’m sure, Julia. I have promised to see Dr. Carzon again before he goes about the Hook, so perhaps you will excuse me for a few moments and without further apology she quitted the room. “ I think she guessed what I was going to say,” mused Mrs. Campden, grimly, when she found herself alone. “ I am afraid she has a weak nature to thus shrink from a subject simply because it is disagreeable. It must, however, be discussed sooner or later ; and, at all events, I have put a spoke in the wheel of 196 FALLEN FORTUNES. that young gentleman’s being sent to Eton at our expense. I never heard of such unprincipled folly. It could not be done under a hundred and fifty pounds a year at the very least ; but 'when people get poor they immediately begin to think that all their friends are made of money.” CHAPTER XXIII. ADVICE GRATIS. It is said that it requires a very brave man indeed to take to his heels in the midst of a battle ; and certainly Mrs. Dalton showed not a little courage in running away from her hostess, and thus avoiding a discussion, which some instincfc told her would be painful to an extreme degree. If she felt any humili- ation in leaving her apparent mistress of the field, it was more than made up to her by the sense of enfranchisement — of escape from her unwelcome society ; and when she sought that of Dr. Curzon, who was talking with her husband in the library, it was with no intention whatever of returning to renew the combat. Mrs. Campden, on the other hand, would not perhaps have experienced much annoyance, even if she had waited for the reappearance of her guest for the next hour, for it would have convinced her that Edith was afraid of her — for hitherto Mrs. Dalton had shown no fear of her cousin — and been so far an acknowledgment of the new relations which disparity of wealth had established between them. As it was, however, the bell sounded for kettledrum in a few minutes, and ever alive to such domestic duties, she descended to the drawing-room to superintend the tea-table. There she found Mr. Holt alone ; he generally presented himself at that intermediate meal, not that he ever partook of it, but because he knew that his presence was regarded as a sort of attention by his hostess, who did not find it easy at that hour to command the services of her gentlemen guests. She welcomed him on this occasion by a beaming smile, and then suddenly became overspread with gloom. “ This is a terrible misfortune that has overtaken our friends, Mr. Holt.” “ Yes, indeed, madam. I cannot say how deeply I feel it.” “ You, however, do not, of course, hear of it to-day for the first time F ” “Well, no. I have had my fears— between ourselves — for ADVICE GRATIS, 197 some time respecting the particular investment the break-down of which has caused this catastrophe. I advised Dalton to get out of it ; but you know he is difficult to persuade.” “In other words, he is obstinate as a mule,” returned Mrs. Campden, frankly. “ I can easily imagine the trouble he must have given you to keep him straight even up till now.’’ “ He had always the best advice I had to offer him,” replied Mr. Holt, modestly ; “ but he took fancies to this and that — a weakness greatly to be deprecated in business — and specu- lated ” “ And now, he has utterly ruined himself and all belonging to him ?” observed Mrs. Campden, impatiently. “ I am afraid he has been very hard hit indeed, madam. Still, if he would be content to realise — at a great loss, to be sure — or perhaps I should rather say if he would consent to be freed from his liabilities ” “ That means bankruptcy, does it not ? Pray take a cup of tea, Mr. Holt.’^ “ Thanks. — Why, no, madam : it is not bankruptcy. He has a notion, it seems — quite a chimerical one, in my opinion — that there is still something to be got out of this mine in Brazil. He is resolved to throw good money after bad by going out himself to St. Jose ” “ Oh, I don’t agree with you there, Mr. Holt,” put in his hostess, quickly. “ I think he can’t do better for himself and for those belonging to him” — here she began to speak very impressively — “than to go to Brazil. Things will settle down much better in his absence : his high-flown and extravagant notions, quite unsuited to his changed circumstances, are, I am convinced, not shared by Edith and the dear girls ; they are simple in their habits, and will, if left to themselves, take a sensible view of their position. They are a little spoiled by flattery and incense, at least poor Kate is, but you will see that she will now be quite a different girl.” “ Indeed, I hope not, madam,” returned Mr. Holt, earnestly ; “ in my humble opinion, Miss Kate Dalton can hardly change for the better.” “ I am sure Miss Kate Dalton ought to be very flattered, and I will venture to say would he so, if she could hear what you say, Mr. Holt. I am afraid she will not receive so many pretty speeches now, as she has been accustomed to, poor girl.” “ She will deserve them all the same, Mrs. Campden.” “Doubtless, doubtless; but those she does receive will be 198 FALLEN FORTUNES, sweeter. It is a sad fall for her, when one remembers that it was only last season that she might have been a co nr toss for the asking — or rather ihe asking was the other way — and now, of course Here Mrs. Campden broke off to sip her tea, and instead of adding “almost anybody,” as she had intended to say, she smilingly concluded her sentence with : “Well, in short, ‘ no reasonable offer, ^ as the tradesmen say, is likely to be refused.” “ I suppose it will make a difference,” said Mr. Holt, thought- “ Of course it will ; the girl is not an idiot.” Holt started, as though he had been stung, and exclaimed, “ Mrs. Campden ! ” “ There, pray don’t be angry,” returned his hostess, laughing outright, a very rare thing with her indeed ; it was on that account, perhaps, that the laugh did not sound quite natural, and indeed expressed as much scorn as mirth. “ 1 had no idea that you City gentlemen were so diffident and unenterprising.” “ The most enterprising of us often fail, madam.” “Yes, once or twice,” returned she, quickly; “but that is no bar to your final success.” A curious change was manifested in both tbe speakers: the haughty and somewhat reticent Mrs. Campden had become earnest and almost viva,cious ; thg impassive man of business, usually so deferential in his manner to his hostess, had grown tenacious of his own opinion, and at the same time soft and gentle. It was with a sigh that might have been breathed by a woman that he replied : “ I would I could think so, madam ; in any case, time and opportunity are necessary to recover from such reverses, and to encourage me to tempt Fate anew.” “ You shall have them both, Mr. Holt,” continued she, rapidly. “ As my cousins will now remain for some weeks at Hiverside, why should you not do likewise ? You are very welcome to remain here, if you please.” “ But I am not sure whether Dalton, or indeed your husband himself ” Mr. Holt hesitated. “ I am mistress of my own house, sir,” broke in Mrs. Campden, imperiously ; “ since I have asked you, that is sufficient. Mr. Dalton will be off to town to-morrow, and you will have the field all to yourself. — Hush ! there is someone coming. — Why, Kate, my dear, I thought for once you were deserting the tea- table.” For an instant Kat^ turned a little white ; it was her first ADVICE GRATIS. 199 meeting with her hostess since the tidings of her father’s ruin ; and though she had schooled herself to behave with equanimity, the effort cost her something ; then her eyes fell upon Mr. Holt, and she felt the hot blood passing into her cheeks, and flaming there. These two had been talking about her, some instinct told her at once ; and though they had, unquestionably, a right to do so, she resented it exceedingly : every nerve in her body tingled as though a designed affront had been offered to her. “ I thought yon had been alone, Mrs. Oampden,” said she, coldly. “ I have had my tea,” cried Mr. Holt, rising with ludicrous haste, and sweeping the crumbs away from his legs with his pocket-handkerchief. ‘‘ I was just about to go when you pame in.” “ Hay, nay ; there is no reason for your going away from us,” said Mrs. Campden, in her most gracious manner. “ I think, by this time, my dear Kate, we may almost consider Mr. Holt as a friend of the family. There is no one out of the family, I am sure, who regrets the misfortune that has happened to you all more than he does. Oh, my dear Kate, I am so distressed about it.” This affectionate outburst was accompanied by an embrace, to which Kate submitted with the best grace she could. “ Blood is thicker than water, dear,” continued Mrs. Campden, confidentl;)^ “and your best friends — till you come to have one dearer and nearer than even they — you will always find to be your relatives. Mr. Holt here will do me the justice to say that I have just expressed to him ” Bhe looked round for corroboration, but the witness she cited had disappeared. One of the drawing-room windows was open ; and through it, finding his escape by the door cut off by his hostess, Mr. Holt had quietly stepped on to the lawn, with a bow to Kate, by way of apology for having remained even so long as he had in obvious opposition to her wishes. “Why, where on earth is the man gone to?” cried Mrs. Campden, with indignant astonishment. “I suppose Mr. Holt thought himself de tro]J,^^ observed Kate, quietly. “ He was very foolish if he did ; and I am bound to say, my dear Kate, since we are upon the subject, that you were still more foolish if you induced him to believe so. Mr. Holt is a man of means, and indeed even of mark in his calling— and 200 FALLEN FORTUNES. Uiere are very few girls, no matter wliat their position, who would be justified in treating his attentions with contempt/’ I cannot understand how any girl could be justified in doing that,” answered Kate, quietly. Well, well, you know what I mean. There are some young ladies — only a very few — who can afford to give themselves airs ; and there are others — very numerous — who cannot afford it ; it is well for them when they are not compelled by circumstances to put up with the airs of other people. There are governesses, for instance. I hope, my dear, I may never hear of your going out as such ” “It is very likely that you may, Mrs. Campden,” interrupted the girl, calmly. “ Well, as I have just said, I hope not; but it is, of course, possible, if your father’s ruin is so complete as we have reason to fear, that circumstances may compel you to take such a course. We should all feel it — your parents, your sister, and ourselves — as a great misfortune, though not, of course, in the light of a disgrace.” “ Indeed, Mrs. Campden, I hope not,” answered Kate, haughtily ; “ my father’s daughter is, I venture to believe, in- capable of bringing disgrace upon any member of his family.” “ Of course, of course ; I don’t mean that^^ returned her hostess, quickly. “ But your taking one up so sharp is just an example of how unfit you are to undertake any subordinate position. If you were a governess, you know, people would say what they liked to you ; that is, they would speak their minds very plainly ; I always did so to Mary’s governess.” Kate inclined her head assentingly ; she had every reason to believe the statement. “ Well, here is an opportunity, rny dear girl — at least he has just gone out of the window — of avoiding this most unpleasant contingency.” “ If you please, Mrs. Campden, I would rather not talk about this matter,” said Kate, looking up very flushed, and with quivering lips. “ But that is exceedingly foolish. Why hesitate to discuss what is not a mere theoretical affair, but something which is certain to happen ; why refuse to hear any mention of poverty, when you are about so soon to feel its sting ? ” “ I feel it now, madam — at this moment,” returned the girl, with intense significance. “ But it was not to our poverty that I was alluding ; you are welcome to dwell on that to your heart’s ADVICE GRATIS. 201 content. But with respect to any — with respect to that gentle- man’s pretensions to my hand, for to such T am compelled to believe you refer, I will not be schooled ; I will not listen to you ; it is a matter with which you have no concern whatever, while God still leaves me a mother.” For a moment the bitter- ness — the sense of the harshness of Fate — which the young girl felt in her heart of hearts, was permitted to manifest itself in her tone ; but the mention of her mother evidently softened it. “ I must beg, I must entreat, Mrs. Campden,” she continued, pleadingly, “ that you will never mention the subject to mamma. She could not endure it ; it would pain and distress her to an extent that I think you are hardly aware of.” “ I am quite aware of it, my dear,” answered Mrs. Campden, composedly ; “ and it is out of consideration for the state of her health and — and condition — that I have addressed myself to you. A mother, as you suggest, is the proper channel for such advice ; but in this case, it is for your mother’s sake I speak, and she can hardly plead her own cause. I say nothing of your father, though his regret at seeing his dear ones reduced, through his own folly, to a position so foreign to their experience, must in- deed be poignant ; nothing of your poor invalid sister, hence- forth compelled to give up all those luxuries which to one in her condition are almost necessaries ; nothing of your little brother, so young that he is incapable of understanding the change that has shadowed his prospects. All these things can be remedied, if you please ; but I speak of your mother only. She will never complain, of course ; but she will suffer all the more. Every slight that may now be offered to her husband, in return for a sharp word in other days, will be felt by her sensitive spirit like a poisoned dart. The withdrawal of fine-weather friends ; the open satisfaction of enemies : these things wdll torture her. She will see yourself — her pride and flower — no longer the centre of admiration among the dazzling throngs of fashion, but wearing out your days in poverty and seclusion, without a chance of such a suitor as she might of old have reasonably expected; some doctor, or curate, or gentleman- farmer at the best, will necessarily fall to your lot ; she will see Jenny ” “ Spare me ! ” cried Kate, imploringly. “ Do you suppose I do not foresee these things as well as you — that they are not brought home to me here ? ” and she pressed her hand pas- sionately to her heart. “ That may be so,” continued the other, calmly. ‘‘ But what 202 FALLEN FORTUNES. you evidently do not see is the reverse of the picture ; the change that is in your power to effect by the utterance of a single monosyllable. It is not as if you were asked to sacrifice yourself — as many girls are called upon to do — at the shrine of Mammon ; you are not selling yourself to some miserable old man, who has only his gold to recommend him, arid who has forgotten, if he ever knew, what love is. Mr. Holt is a man in every way estimable, and who — as you cannot but be aware — is passionately attached to you. You will make him the hap- piest of men ; and in time — for these things grow, my dear Kate ; the fanciful afiection of a girl for a lover she knows nothing about is not to be compared with the esteem and affec- tion born of the devotion of a husband — I say, in time he will make you the happiest of women. Of course you don’t think so nowF Kate had turned very pale, and sank down rather than seated herself in the arm-chair. ‘‘It is so difficult for a j^oung girl to listen to the voice of experience in such a matter. That is why I preferred in the first place to speak of the material aspects of the question, a consideration of which must surely needs carry conviction. In accepting this gentleman you will confer inestimable advantages upon your family, to benefit whom he is only seeking for such an excuse ; of course I don’t mean mere money gifts, Kate, though, whatever he may do for them under sueh circumstances, you may depend upon it he would feel the obligation to be upon his side. He has opportuuities — golden ones — of putting things in your father’s way, without any cost to himself whatever. I think these should be strong arguments, even though there were other means of extricating your family from their embarrassments ; but there are absolulely none. This expedition of your father’s to the Brazils, Mr. Holt tells me, is a fool’s errand.” “ You think that would be given up,” put in Kate, suddenly — “that papa would remain with mamma, in case I — that is, if Mr. Holt ” “ My dear Kate, I wouldn’t precipitate matters for the world,” interrupted Mrs. Campden ; “ I think it upon the whole ad- visable that your father should take the voyage.” “But you said it was a fool’s errand.” “ Yes, but he will never be convinced of that without a per- sonal experience. Heaven forbid, too, that any arguments of mine should induce you to take a hurried step in a matter so important ; but I adjure you to lay them to heart. Bemember, you are the only one to whom those you love can look for assist- ADVICE GRATIS, 203 ance — I mean, of course, for permanent assistance,** added Mrs. Campden, while a tinge of colour deepened the extremity of her nose. “It is not as if you had sisters to whom a similar chance might ofi'er itself. Your parents have only another burden in poor, dear Jenny, who must always be a source to them of expense, as well as anxiety.** “ Hush, for God’s sake ! ** cried Kate, imperiously. The flow of Mrs. Campdcn’s eloquence had been such as to drown the noise of the opening of the door, and she was quite unaware that Jenny herself had entered the room. There she stood, white and wan as a ghost, with her magnificent eyes fixed full upon her hostess, with an expression of unutterable calm. “ Do not be distressed for me, Kitty,” said she, with ex- quisite softness. Then, in the clear, incisive tones that were habitual to her, she added: “And as for you, Mrs. Campden, I should indeed be sorry that anyone beyond our own family circle should be troubled upon my account. That I should always — so long as I live — be a source of anxiety to it, has been, I am afraid, decreed by Fate ; but as to my being a burden, I hope in that respect your apprehensions will not be realised.” “ Oh, Jenny, how can you ever be a burden to us ! ” exclaimed Kitty, reproachfully. “ In the manner that Mrs. Campden has pointed out, dear,” answered her sister, calmly. “ She has, with great good sense, and without that foolish fastidiousness that would keep some people silent upon such a matter, laid her finger upon our weakest point — namely, the expense which an invalid like my- self must necessarily be to my father and mother, who are no longer in a position to bear it.” For the first moment or two of surprise, the mistress of River- side had looked anything but the superior being which, in com- parison with her young guests, circumstances had recently made her ; she had been discomposed, confused, and flustered ; there was even a fleeting instant in which she had meditated an apology for having involuntarily wounded Jenny’s feelings ; but perceiv- ing first no direct resentment in the girl’s manner, and then that her own arguments had acquired an unexpected ally, she began to take courage. “ Of course, my dear Jane, I should never have spoken upon so delicate a matter as your illness, had I dreamt you were within hearing. But Kate and I were having a little talk upon a private topic, during which it became necessary to touch upon 204 FALLEN FORTUNES. all the inconveniences to which, through your father’s losses, your family would be now exposed.” Jenny’s eyes glanced to Kate and back again with the quick- ness of those of a bird. “ I by no means wish to inquire into this private topic, Mrs. Campden,” said she, firmly ; “ but I should wish it clearly to be understood that any arguments founded upon my being an en- cumbrance to my parents — upon my incapacity to earn my own living — have been advanced in error. If any important step were taken by any member of our family ” — here she glanced again at Kate — “ upon that supposition, it would be a great mis- take ; and if it involved anything of sacrifice, must needs be bitterly repented of, since it would have been made in vain.” “ But, my dear child,” expostulated Mrs. Campden, with a certain maternal air, which perhaps of all her mental disguises became her least, “it is perfectly ridiculous that a girl in your position — a confirmed invalid — can ever hope to obtain any situa- tion, as a governess, for instance, or to make money by her own exertions. With all the goodwill in the world, yon know, how is it possible that you are to do it ? ” “ My dear Mrs. Campden, that is an affair of my own,” replied Jenny, decisively, “ as private as your late topic with Kitty, and you must therefore excuse my discussing it. Here is Mary come at last. Mamma is still closeted with Dr. Curzon, by-the*by, and bade me say she would take no tea.” CHAPTER XXIV. SECOND CLASS. The divines talk to us of “ precious time and from their point of view, no doubt, our time should be more precious, and we should be less willing to waste it, than gold itself. Business men also protest, with more or less of truth (generally the latter), that their time is precious, and would have us believe that every quarter of an hour by which their morning train is delayed, costs them, or their clients, thousands. And even outside those two callings, there are many instances in which the passing hour may be designated by the same endearing epithet. But, after all, there is no time so precious to the human heart as that which intervenes between the signature of the death-warrant of some beloved fellow-creature and the carrying it into effect. When the kindly doctor is compelled to whisper, “ Xo hope,” and hus- band, or wife, or child, lie on that bed which they wiU for CQrtaiq SECOND CLASS. 205 only exchange for their place in the churchyard, then time becomes precious indeed. How we grudge every moment that we are forced to pass away from that beloved object whom we shall never, never see again ! How we feel that a week hence, or a day, we shall bitterly regret the hours — cumulatively years — that we have lived apart from them, out of their sight, beyond their voice and touch, when we might have been in their com- pany ! How every stroke of the clock sounds like a parting knell ! And thus, as the time drew on for John Dalton to set sail for Brazil, each day became inexpressibly dear, and all too brief for his unhappy wife. It was a long journey, full of doubt and hazard, even for him ; but for her it was the longest that mortal man can take, for she knew well, though no tongue had told her, but only the wordless whisper of her own prescient heart, that she would never behold him more in this world. Her health had been failing her for long, though no one knew it besides herself. She had been always one to make light of her troubles, in order the better to persuade others to let her help them to bear their own ; “ her worst she kept, her best she gave of everything. But she had for some time looked forward to her coming trial with a grave suspicion that her strength was insuf- ficient to meet it. And now this crushing blow had fallen, and she felt that it had paralysed all her rallying powers ; her courage remained with her — it was necessary for others, and therefore only death could rob her of it ; but her vital energies were gone. Hers was not a solitary case. Doubtless, while I write these words, there are hundreds, perhaps thousands of women, wives and mothers, who know that their fate is sealed, but keep the secret to themselves for others’ sakes, and look upon the passing world with smiling serenity. Another autumn, perhaps even another winter they may see on earth, but not another spring. They hear plans made for the future which include themselves, and they appear to fall in with them. They will not cast a shadow over the present happiness, the present hope of those around them ; but they are well aware, by the time of which these loved ones speak with such unclouded assurance, that in this world they themselves will have become a memory. Such miseries are strewn broadcast in our homes. But Mrs. Dalton’s case was worse than most. She was not only sentenced to leave all she loved, and step into the unfathomed gulf of death alone, but to leave them in sore straits. Moreover, the little span of time during which her husband was still to remain with her was 2o6 Pallen fortunes. trenclied upon by tbe necessity of his going to town, and making arrangements for the disposition of his property — or rather of what had been his before their ruin. lie was bent upon being absent from Riverside as little as possible, but a “ monstrous can tie of at least three days was thus cut out of the bare fort- night that still intervened before the sailing of the ship. Of course Edith might have accompanied him to London, but she shrank from expending the few pounds that this would cost upon her own pleasure or comfort. Every moment that could be passed in his company was now priceless to her, yet ten thou- sand of them were now foregone, for the sake of a few shillings. Such is poverty, which fools make light of, and liars praise for its wise teachings, and which rogues and scoundrels dare to flout at and despise. Edith could, however, accompany her husband to the station v/ithout expense, since he was conveyed thither in one of the Riverside equipages ; and this we may be sure she did. “ I shall take a second-class ticket, my darling,’^ said he, as they drew near their destination. His tone, if not that of a martyr, had something of serious self-sacrifice in it. Oh, must you ? ’’ returned she, pleadingly. She did not like the notion of “ dear John going by the second class ; though, for herself, if she could have gone with him, she would cheer- fully have travelled in a cattle-truck. “Yes, I think so. One can’t begin to economise too early, as that woman said last night. The idea of her giving you such advice, at such a time ! ” “ It was very wise advice, John.” “ Very likely ; but I wish it had choked her. However, I am going to follow it, you see. It is lucky I did not bring down Toffet with me ” (Toffet was his valet), “ as we originally in- tended, or it would have been rather unpleasant — I mean, for him and me to travel together.” “ It would have been impossible, my dear.” “ Oh, I don’t know ; one soon gets used to these things. I daresay I shall have worse company than Toffet on board the Flamhorougli Head, for I am quite resolved to go in the steerage. It is a matter of twenty pounds, the difference is ; and that twenty pounds will be of use to you at the Hook, you may depend upon it.” “ Don’t talk of it, darling; not just now,” murmured Edith, with her head, upon his breast. “ It has not come to parting vet. You will be back amongst us on Tuesday.” SECOND CLASS. 2c7 Yes, my pet, on Tuesday at latest, if I can only get those lawyers to move ont of their snaihs pace. There is the auc- tioneer, too, to see about the lease. I have great hopes that the house will have improved in value since we took it. I think I shall take Skip ton’s bid for the horses, so that that matter can be arranged at once ; ” and he entered some memoranda in his note-book. How she envied him the many practical matters he had to deal with, the transaction of which must necessarily engross his thoughts. In the day of trouble women’s work is of little value to them as a distraction from care ; the occupation of the hand, or even of the mind, affords but small relief ; a certain sort of action is invaluable at such seasons. “ That pompous and pretentious arrangement for the transaction of affairs, called Business,” becomes then of real importance, and only men are able to avail themselves of it. This is fortunate, since they are certainly less able to endure “worry” than the softer and serener sex. Annoyances of any kind had always irritated John Dalton to an extent quite disproportionate to their importance ; but, under the present circumstances, the least vexations galled him. Though he asked for a second-class ticket at the station, the clerk — who knew him well — gave him a first from habit ; and this had to be exchanged, to the wonder not only of the official, but of the various passengers in the waiting-room, to whom the Riverside liveries were familiar. Both eminent and wealthy persons are found sometimes to use the second class ; but Mrs. Campden would have felt it a slur upon the reputation of her house if any guest had arrived or departed from it in so ignoble a manner. And in this particular at least Dalton would have satisfied her expectatious ; he had always been accustomed to the best of everything — never to the second best. He had never been in the pit of the opera, nor put up with the accommodation of a coffee-room at an hotel. When he had journeyed, it was always in a luxurious manner, with piles of newspapers or heaps of railway books, which he had as often as not left in the car- riage behind him, when they had served his object of making the hours of travel move more quickly. But he was resolute now to adopt the most rigidly economical habits, and having omitted to bring a book with him from Riverside, was therefore compelled to feed on his own thoughts throughout the journey, or to enter against the grain into conversation with his fellow- travellers. They stared at him because a livery servant had opened the door of the carriage for him, and handed in his rail- 2oS FALLEN FORTUNES. way rug, but not more than the servant himself had stared when Dalton had said “ second-class, William.’’ Perhaps nothing so brought home the fact to the B/iversIde household that “ them poor Daltons ” were really ruined as the tidings of this simple change of travelling carriage. “ Just think of Mr. Dalton, ’im as has just been stannin’ for Bampton, sitting cheek by jowl with Scarve, the Bleabarrow undertaker, and that ’ere ’prentice of his, Tomkins ! ” who happened to be going on a professional expedition by the same train. Tomkins, who was educating himself to be a mute, was just the sort of companion Dalton wanted, if he must needs have any ; but Scarve was lugu- briously loquacious. Under the influence of a flask of gin which he carried about with him, as he explained, as a precau- tion against infection, he grew very communicative about his “ jobs with the aristocracy,” of whom, if his word was to be credited, he had put a sufficient number under ground to make a House of Lords in the other world. “ I don’t say but that there is firms in London as can bury as well or better than our- selves,” he whispered confidentially to Dalton ; “ but in the country Scarve & Co. yield to none.” When he got out he pressed his card — it had a neat black border of about two inches broad, and a tomb in the centre, on which were inscribed his name and address — upon his fellow-traveller’s attention; and though at first amused by it, it presently begat in his mind a ghastly reflection. Supposing, when he himself was far aw^ay, anything should happen to Edith, or any of the children, would a man like that — perhaps the very man himself — be sent for to the Nook to bury them ? A morbid and monstrous thought, as he was well aware ; but the knowledge of his own weakness availed him nothing. He beheld his little family, overshadowed by death as well as ruin, ministered to by hireling hands, for- gotten and forsaken by friends, while he himself was thousands of miles away. It was the only time that he had dared to say to himself concerning any of his dear ones, “ They will die, perhaps, in my absence ; their welcoming faces shall greet me never more.” As for himself, he felt too thickly clad in misery to be pervious to the shafts of Death ; he could not lose them that way ; but he felt that they might well leave him — Edith, who was so delicate, or Jenny, always an invalid — and then this man would come and see the last of them. It was an inexpres- sible relief to him when Mr. Scarve and his assistant quitted the train, and with the most dejected faces climbed into a dog-cart that was in waiting for them, driven by a groom in mourning. THE WORM TURNS, 209 To them succeeded an unmistakable commercial traveller ; ‘‘ money and orders ” were written in bis twinkling eyes as legibly as the Hebrew characters that were wont to be seen (by the faithful) inscribed upon those of some pious folk of old. He was a chirpy, gossipy fellow, full of Joe Millerish jokes, and very inquisitive. He was very curious to know ^‘who” Dalton “ travelled for,” as he expressed it. “ A family man, I presume ? ” said he. Dalton nodded in good-natured assent. ‘‘Ah, then you are quite right to come second-class, sir ; I always do it myself, and save the difference for Mrs. name is Roberts) and the young people.’’ Presuming upon his superiority in years, he was so good as to give his companion much advice as to the pursuit of his sup- posed calling. “My motto jpush, sir” — which he pronounced like “ rush” — “ and I have always found that system to answer.” And by way of illustration, he dug the would-have-been member for Bampton playfully in the ribs. Without being at all of the opinion of that modest philoso- pher who averred that he never spoke with any fellow-creature without learning something new, Dalton was by nature social and a citizen of the world ; so that not only did Mr. Roberts’ conversation speed the leaden hours of the journey, but the two parted the best of friends. “Yon are the right sort, you are,” was the eulogium passed upon him by that gentleman on the platform as they shook hands. In the midst of which leave-taking, up came Dalton’s footman to show him where the carriage stood. “ Well, I am blowed,” said Mr. Roberts, with a prolonged whistle. He did not know, of course, that it was the last drive in his own carriage which his late fellow-traveller was to take. CHAPTER XXV. THE WORM TURNS. The house in Cardigan Place was as yet unchanged in every respect — just as Dalton had left it on his quitting town — yet everything spoke of gloom and desertion. It was no longer his home, except in name ; and in a few days it would lose even the designation. He felt that be could not eat his dinner there, but went out to dine at his club. London was what is called “ empty;” there were only a few millions left in it, who could not afford to go into the country ; Piccadilly was a solitude ; P 210 FALLEN FORTUNES. Pall Mall a waste. Dalton felt qualms as he drew near his club, imagining that every one there would have heard tidings of his downfall, and that he would be looked upon with pitying eyes. He knew how weak it was in him, how false the pride that made him entertain such apprehensions, how altogether vain and egotistic were such feelings, as well as the wisest philosopher that ever founded a school ; but so it was. His fears, however, were groundless, for there was not a soul in the place. The reading-room, ordinarily so thronged at that preprandial hour, was absolutely tenantless; he might have had six Vail Mall Gazettes all to himself. In the huge dining-room of the VlesiosauTUs, he was the one solitary guest ; but as he was about to sit down to his modest repast, there entered one Dawkins, and begged permission to join tables. Dawkins was a middle- aged bore, who could never forget that he had once been a Member of Parliament. He prefaced every statement with “ When I sat for Siddington,^^ and dated every event from his admission into “ the House.’’ Ho one could have imagined from his conversation that that halcyon time had lasted but six weeks, after which he was unseated for bribery, on petition. By profession he was a civil engineer, and had gained some notoriety, which could scarcely be called fame. He had not invented a tubular bridge, or a submarine tunnel ; but he had nursed more than one railway successfully through its sickly childhood, and had found his own account in it — at his banker’s. His enemies averred that, in his professional capacity, Mr. Dawkins, C.E., had had his hands “ greased and even his friends allowed that he was an excellent authority upon coal contracts. Under ordinary circumstances, the most that this gentleman would have got out of John Dalton, in the way of social acknowledgment, would have been a careless nod of the head, and he would have felt himself flattered even by that ; for Dalton was one of the most popular men in the club, and in the best set, and Dawl^ins was nobody there. How he had got into the Plesiosaurus at all — which, for so large a society, was some- what exclusive — was a marvel to those who knew him best : perhaps he had slipped in by greasing somebody else’s hands. On the present occasion, however, Dalton rather encouraged his advances. This was just the man to have heard, in all likelihood, of his altered circumstances, and he did not wish to seem to shrink from companionship, or to appear in dejection. Moreover, even the talk of Dawkins was better than his own sad thoughts. THE WORM TURNS. 2II Sorry to see you missed your shot at Bampton/’ said this gentleman in a more familiar tone (or so it seemed to the other) than their previous relations justified. “ However, you will try again, of course ; it is quite unusual to get one^s seat at the first trial. I was fortunate myself in that respect, when I stood for Siddington, but it was quite an exceptional piece of good luck.” For the constituency it doubtless was so, since it got two elections, and all the good things “ going ” at such epochs, within two months ; but the good fortune of Mr. Dawkins him- self had certainly been of a very transient nature. “ I am not likely to try again,” answered Dalton, coldly. “Ah! found it expensive, I dare say. That is the worst of it. But it's a proud position too — deuced proud. I shall never forget the day I first took my seat and the oath.” “ I wish you would,” thought Dalton, cynically. The man's impudence annoyed while it amused him. ‘‘ How comes it,” he asked, “ that you are up in town in a dead time like this ? ” “ You may well ask. There are a lot of fellows bothering me by every post to run up to the moors, and Warkworth offered me a berth in his yacht ; but I am chained to my desk. A golden chain, I am happy to say, but still it confines me to Lon- don for the present. Business, business, my dear sir ; you know what that is.” “ Yes ; it is very familiar to me.” “ Hot more familiar than welcome, I hope, eh ? ” put in the other. His tone was indifferent, but the glance and manner which accompanied it were so eager and inquisitive that the contrast was supremely ridiculous. Dalton's sense of humour was tickled. “ Well, I suppose you know all about it ? ” said he, good- humouredly. “ You have doubtless heard that I have been hard hit?” ^ “I did hear something of the kind, my dear sir; but people tell such lies. I had hoped the report was without foundation. Sorry to find it confirmed on such good authority, I’m sure.” “ Thank you,” said Dalton, dryly. He was wondering whe- ther it would be worth while asking this man’s advice (he was sharp enough in his way, and especially in speculative affairs with a flaw in them) as to the Brazilian mine. “ Hot at all,” continued Dawkins,” loftily. “We are all sorry: every man who is worth anything in the club, sir, sympathises with you. A man at your time of life, and in your position, to 212 FALLEN FORTUNES, become tlie prey of a parcel of swindlers ; it is terrible. I had no idea, however, you had gone such a 1 mean, that the thing was so serious. 1 had hoped you were only ‘ winged.’ ” “ No, sir, I am shot,” said Dalton, decisively. He spoke so loud that the waiter came, thinking that something was wanted. “ Get some champagne,” said Dawkins : “ the best — the Clicquot — do you hear ? ” Then, in a confidential voice, he added, “ There’s nothing like champagne, my dear sir, when you are down in the mouth. I remember, when I stood for Siddington, and my opponent was ahead ” ‘‘ If that champagne is for me, Mr. Dawkins, I don’t drink it,” observed Dalton, in a tone more decidedly /rappe than the wine itself. “Very good; then I’ll drink it myself,” replied the other cheerfully. “ Now, look here, Dalton ; don’t be cast down and bitter with your friends, and that sort of thing. Of course it’s infernally disagreeable to have thrown one’s money into the gutter — or down a mine — which is the same thing ; but there are ways of getting it out again.” “ What ! you think the Lara is worth something yet ? ” in- quired Dalton, eagerly. “ Not I. It is not worth a shilling — it is not worth sixpence. Bat money is to be made, my dear fellow ” — the too friendly phrase jarred upon Dalton’s nerves, but he let the other run on ; he might r°ally have something to say that would be useful — “ thousands are to be made — ay, and tens of thousands — if you only go the right way to work, and luith the right people. There’s the rub.” “ And who are the people ? ” inquired Dalton, growing some- what impatient of his companion’s platitudes. “ Well, there’s Beevor, the banker — he is a baronet now, you know, though I can remember him when his firm was a very one-horse affair ; his wife is a leader of fashion — quite the ton, you know.” Dalton could not restrain a smile. Sir Richard Beevor was understood to be a dull man, who, placed by birth in a comfort- able financial groove, had, under certain favourable circum- stances, made a considerable quantity of money ; but his great coup was his marriage with the widow of an eminent gin- distiller, which had heaped his money-bags so high that the Government — to which he gave his parliamentary support— were compelled to take notice of them, and had in consequence made him a baronet. Sir Richard he had met on one or two THE WORM TURNS, 213 occasions in society ; but his lady, never — for she had no chance of being admitted into it. “ Now, if you really want, Dalton, to be made au fait the best things going Mr. Dawkins’ countenance became mysteriously serious ; and Dalton looked serious too ; his mind was occupied for the moment in philological speculation : why was it that men like Holt and Dawkins would use French phrases ?) — “ if you want to see the best people, financially speaking, that are to be met anywhere, and to have an oppor- tunity — who knows ? — of being connected with them ” ‘‘Well, what must I do ?” interrupted Dalton, sharply; he thought he had schooled himself to stand anything without flinching, but he could not stand Dawkins eloquent. “ Why, you must come and dine with me to-morrow, and meet ’em.” “ Very good, I will,” said Dalton. He could not express much gratitude for the invitation, but his manner was more cordial than his words. He knew, or cerfainly he would have known a few weeks ago — that it was he who was conferring the obligation. Mr. Dawkins would have given his ears, if, in the height of last season, he could have secured John Dalton as a guest. But, on the other hand, it was just possible that the man really meant to do a kindness, and perhaps a service to him in asking him to meet these kings of commerce. At all events, Dalton had nowhere else to go, and any society just now seemed to be preferable to his own. He even reflected with a bitter smile that his acceptance of Mr. Dawkins’ hospitality would save him the expense of a dinner. He was now always putting in practice little economies which annoyed him, and was ashamed of himself because they did so. On the morrow he had to see his lawyer, the auctioneer, and his friend Skipton, who had promised to buy his horses ; and instead of taking a Hansom, he patronised the omnibuses. Novelty, it is said, is always pleasing, and therefore he ought to have enjoyed the experience of being jolted, and squeezed, and trodden upon in those vehicles, in none of which he had ever set foot before. He was perfectly conscious that thousands of his fellow-creatures, in most ways equal to himself, and in many superior, were compelled to use this means of conveyance, and that it was a wretched affectation and a contemptible exclu- siveness that made it disagreeable to him, much more than its intrinsic inconveniences ; but he disliked it very much for all that. He could not shake off, in such general considerations, 214 FALLEN FORTUNES. tbo tlioughts of his own belongings ; and when he saw the little batches of nervous and delicate women waiting in the wet for the ’bus to arrive, and struggling for inside places when it did so — an everyday occurrence, but which had never attracted his attention before — his mind reverted to his wife and Kate, who now, if they lived in town, and wished to get about, must needs form part of that patient throng. There is nothing like a change — for the worse — of fortune to make people understand that enigma so often talked about, but which so few trouble themselves to solve, how the “other half” of the world live and move. It seemed to Dalton that next to “ mud-larking ” — picking up other folks’ coppers in the ooze of the river at low tide — there was nothing more unpleasant than this looking after one’s own shillings and sixpences. What galled him still worse were the manifest efforts of his acquaintances to save him small expenses. Sir William Skipton, Q.C., was a well-meaning man in his way ; but if he had had any delicacy of mind to start with, he had thrown it overboard, for the freer practice of his profession ; and he very nearly lost his friend altogether (and, what he would have regretted quite as much, his horses), through attempting to treat Dalton to luncheon at the club. Towards evening, Mr. Dawkins called for him, as had been agreed upon, to take him on to his house, which was some w^ay out in the suburbs ; and was so resolute in paying for their common cab at the end of their journey that Dalton was within a very little of knocking him down at his own doorstep. “ You know, my dear fellow, you must let your friends pay for you izow,” said Dawkins, and that in so loud a tone that the very footman must have heard it as he opened the door. “Why did I promise to dine with this hound?” thought Dalton ; while the other imagined him, perhaps, to be speechless with gratitude. But the host’s coarseness had this good effect upon his guest, that irritation took the place of despondency, and he became quite prepared to play his part in the conversa- tion of the evening, if not exactly to make himself agreeable. Mr. Dawkins was a bachelor ; but his house was kept for him by a widowed sister, Mrs. Jamrod, a lady of sour aspect, and a confirmed stiffness, which might have been the result of rheu- matism, but was, in fact, her imitation of dignity. If she did not absolutely imagine herself to be a princess, she thought Dawkins a prince— this was a really good trait in her character, for he had been generous to her in a certain fashion— whose THE WORM TURNS, 2tS consanguinity ennobled her ; and sbe honestly believed the great staring “ villa-mansion ” in which they lived to be a palace. Her drawing-room fairly blazed with mirrors and gilding ; the curtains were of the most brilliant damask ; the sofas and con- versation-chairs of the newest shapes ; and the tables were loaded with books in such gorgeous binding that they looked no more intended to be read than the centre ornaments of supper-tables to be eaten . They were not read, as Dalton presently discovered in conversation with his hostess, with whom he was left alone for a few minutes, while Mr. Dawkins ran upstairs to “ titivate,’^ as he called dressing for dinner. “ I know nothing of that class of literature,’’ she had replied austerely to some question of his about a book; ‘‘my dear brother wishes it to have its place here, and therefore here it is ; but my own studies, I am thankful to say, are confined within a very small compass : I am only a humble searcher after the Truth.” “ If you find that in a small compass, my dear madam, you must be exceptionally fortunate,” observed Dalton, gravely. “ Sir, there are only two books — the Book and Hervey’s ‘Meditations’ — which, in my opinion, repay perusal. Over all the rest time is spent in vain.” “ Would you exclude Young’s ‘ Night Thoughts ’ and Blair’s ‘ Grave ’ ? ” inquired Dalton, deferentially.” “For myself, yes; for others, however — perhaps for you — they may have some edification.” “ No, not for me,” said Dalton, solemnly. “ I am quite of your opinion as to them. If we have only our Hervey, that is sufficient in the way of complement and comment.” “ I am at once surprised and delighted to hear you say so, Mr. Dalton. I had taken it for granted — I don’t know why, I am sure, for Robert seldom speaks to me of his club friends — that you were by no means seriously inclined.” “ You never were more mistaken in your life, madam,” said Dalton, grimly ; “ though I don’t mean to pretend that it has been always so.” “ Ah, you have had a blow — if anything can be so called that is only material, and alfects our prospects in this world alone. So Robert has hinted to me. These trials are often sent for our good. Your chastening ” “ I say, none of that, Jane,” cried Dawkins, suddenly present- ing himself beside them — all shirt-front and watch-chain. “ You have got hold of the wrong man altogether for that sort 2i6 FALLEN FORTUNES, of stuff. Here are tlie Beevors come, by first, Now, I am not going to have their dinner spoilt for anybody else, so mind we have it in time.” The vulgarity of the man’s voice and manner fiad never pro- claimed itself so openly to Dalton’s ears as now, in his own house. That he should have talked of his fallen fortunes to this hypocritical old woman, was wormwood to him; and from that moment he made up his mind to strike, and not to spare. So far as the lady was concerned, he was unjust, for she really believed — so far as belief was in her — the principles she pro- fessed ; while there was certainly no breach of confidence in her brother having communicated to her the fact of Dalton’s ruin, which was by this time common talk enougli. However, he had laid his hand upon his sword, and like a soldier about to sack a town, was resolved to respect neither sex nor age. At this moment Sir Bichard and Lady Beevor were an- nounced. The former was a fat, black, podgy man, with a habitually stertorous breathing, and an occasional habit of blowing like a porpoise, which rather electrified strangers. His wife, on the other hand, was tall and angular, and very careful of her breath indeed. She thought it inconsistent with her exalted position in society to open her mouth to common people, which she considered most persons who were commoners to be. To even her hostess, whose own dignity had vanished at the sight of hers — swallowed up by that Aaron’s rod — she did but vouchsafe a few monosyllables. To Mr. Dawkins she graciously extended three gaunt fingers covered with rings. When Dalton was introduced to her, she bent her head about a quarter of an inch, and raising her double glasses, surveyed him from head to foot, wdth a particularity that would have done credit to the Ordnance Department. “ I have heard of you before,” said she, curtly. “ You have the advantage of me in that respect, madam,” replied Dalton, in his most winning tones, “ as doubtless in many others.” The shaft sped harmless, however, for the lady had already turned away to examine some new arrivals with the air of a naturalist who is investigating specimens of the ordinary beetle. They were common enough of their genus, it must be acknow- ledged. Gentlemen with pronounced noses, and mispronounced Bs and Ps, with a cataract of shirt-front, embossed with jewels, and rimmed with the merest margin in the way of waistcoat — all of them of oriental complexion, but with ostentatiously THE WORM TURNS, 217 Christian names. Gentlemen, again, with mutton-chop whis- kers, and those lively airs with which business is tempered in the City ; glib of tongue, elastic of step, and with that overdone geniality towards one another which is their substitute for friendliness. The ladies were by no means so gushing ; they were either depressed in manner, each watching her respective lord with a somewhat servile eagerness to obey the motions of his eye, or they were stiff and formal, some through mere lack of ease, others from the consciousness of recently-acquired wealth. Most of it had dropped from the skies (so far as they knew), and it was but natural that they should consider themselves as miraculously favoured. The talk of both sexes was of money : in the one case, of coin pure and simple — stocks and shares, loans and premiums, surpluses and deficits ; in the other, of money’s worth — the cost of jewels, of lace, of furniture. It was like a gathering of brokers, and to some extent perhaps it was one. Stiff and purse-proud as the richest might be, all pro- strated themselves before Sir Richard and his lady — the two golden images which bullion and gin had set up. Every boastful, self-asserting voice toned itself down in addressing them ; every remark became interrogative, deferential, and subject, as it were, to their supreme approval. Dalton noticed that most of those made by the men were prefaced with A gentleman was telling me the other day. Sir Richard,” &c. &c. He had never before moved in circles, professing to “ circles,” where men talked of “ gentlemen,” and not of “ men.” It was probably rare, he surmised, for these people to be addressed by a gentleman at all, and when it happened they made a note of it. Some of these persons looked inquisitively at Dalton, much as the commercial traveller had done in the train, as though they would say, In what line of business is this fellow ? ” They had the sagacity — perhaps the humility — to see that, though among them, he was not of them ; but that by no means conciliated the object of their curiosity. He was not used to appear in society and not be known. Their talk would have jarred upon him under any circumstances — it was like counting sovereigns out of a bag ; but, in his penniless condition, he re- sented it almost as though it had been a personal insult. He felt himself, though certainly without being overcome with sympathy for those about him, becoming gradually assimilated to them, degraded by their companionship, and losing, in some mysterious way, his individual character. If ‘‘evil communi- cations ” had corrupted him, they must have had a very rapid 2i8 FALLEN FORTUNES, effect, or irritation had greatly assisted their influence ; but, at all events, he was fast losing his “ good manners/^ He hardly noticed which of the stiff females it was that Mrs. Jamrod con- fided to his care to take down to dinner — their dresses all rustled like bank-notes ; they were all behung with chains and jewels, and like the lady of Banbury Cross, made music wherever they moved — and for once neglected “his duty to his neighbour.” The table was crowded with guests, two individuals instead of one being even placed at the top and bottom. Lady Beevor, as the only person of title present of her sex, w^as one of those who occupied this distinguished position, next the host, and Dalton was placed on the other side of her at right angles. Between the gilt candlesticks, and across the fruit and flowers, he thought he had never seen so many mean and vulgar faces before. “ Good gracious ! ” muttered he under his breath, “are these the capitalists ? ” “ Sir,” said the lady upon his right, “ I did not catch your ?words.” “I was wondering,” said -he, “who all these good people were ; do you know ? ” Dalton had an agreeable vivacity of manner that was greatly appreciated in fashionable circles ; but at which his present neighbour was evidently considerably astonished, not to say scandalised. “Hush!” she said; “you know Lady Beevor surely — that is,” added she, with a reverent recollection of the rank of the person spoken of, “ at least by sight ? ” “ Yes, indeed ; no one who has ever seen her is likely to forget her. It was gin, was it not, that ‘ floated’ her ? ” “ Floated her ! ” repeated the lady, quite aghast. “ Certainly. I remember her being brought out in the City ; though Sir Richard in the end took all the shares. You have heard all about the distillery and the kick in the bottles, and so on ; you must have heard it.” “ Oh, pray, don’t, sir. She is looking this way, Ho one ever speaks of the gin now. You mustn’t talk of her like that ; you mustn’t indeed.” All the starch had suddenly gone out of his companion ; she was positively limp and damp with fear. If she had, however innocently, offended Lady Beevor, she felt that the gates of Paradise — that is, of Fashion — would be shut in her face ; and she did so want to get in. THE WORM TURNS. 219 “ Well, let us talk of someone else. Who is that funny little fellow opposite, who has dropped his watch-chain into his soup ? Why the dickens does he wear such a chain ? “Because I gave it him upon his birthday. That is my husband, sir.” “ You don’t say so ! You must have married very early ; a great deal earlier than he did,” was the unblushing reply. “ Well, he is ‘ older than I, that’s truth,” assented the lady, much conciliated. “ If you are in the City, the name of Binks will probably be familiar to you. I believe my husband is tolerably well known there.” “ Is it possible, my dear madam, that I am speaking to Mrs. Binks ? ” “ Well, I believe Mrs. Jamrod introduced us,” returned the lady, with a toss of her head that sent the camellia at the side of it swinging like a pendulum. “ Upon my life, I thought she said ^ Minx,’ ” replied Dalton, apologetically. “ I was totally unaware of my good fortune — of the honour that had been conferred upon me.” “ Don’t speak of it,” said Mrs. Binks, with a gracious smile. “Water!” suddenly exclaimed a commanding voice upon Dalton’s left. It was Lady Beevor, speaking to the servant, as he thought ; and as none of the domestics heard her, and a water- bottle was opposite to him, he leaned forward and filled her glass. To his astonishment and indignation, she stared coldly at him, and drank the water without the slightest acknowledg- ment of his courtesy. Then it struck him, all of a sudden, that this woman had been speaking to him when she had said “water.” He felt himself turning scarlet. “You mustn’t mind her ladyship’s manner,” whispered Mrs. Binks, good-naturedly ; “ she doesn’t mean anything by it. I have heard her speak quite as brusquely to Mr. Abrahams, yonder.” “Yes, but I am not Mr. Abrahams,” said Dalton, quietly. His mind was a volcano ; he would insult the whole company, except the simple little creature at his right hand, who, unlike that woman from Gin Lane, really did not “ mean anything ” by her gaucheries. “Well, no; I suppose you have not made Mr. Abrahams’ three hundred and fifty thousand pounds,” returned Mrs. Binks, not contemptuously, but with a certain touch of pity, which cut Dalton like a knife. Was it possible that even she had heard of his impecunious condition ? 220 FALLEN FORTUNES. “ How do you know that ? inquired he, smiling. Don’t I look like a millionaire ? ” “ Oh, it is not that : you look quite the gentleman, I’m sure,” said she, with naivete. (“ Quite the gentleman,” groaned Dalton to himself. “ What have I done to deserve these things ? ”) “ Only I happened to hear upstairs that matters had been going wrong with you : I hope they’ll mend. There have been times when Mr. B. himself has been anxious.” And> she nodded towards her husband, who was tossing off a very large glass of champagne with an air of freedom from anxiety that Dalton envied. “ Thank you,” said he, softly. He made up his mind, when the hour of retribution came, that he would spare the female Binks for her kind wishes. Then he turned to Mrs. Binks’ neighbour — a lady in semi- mourning, and therefore unable, like the rest, to indulge her taste in jewellery, but who had contrived, by the aid of os- trich plumes and other sombre ornaments, to so nearly resemble a hearse-horse, that Dalton half-expected her to “ paw ” — with an inquiry as to whether she had been to the last Crystal Palace concert. “ I have never been to the Crystal Palace in all my life,” was the frigid reply. “ Dear me ! You have religious objections, I suppose ? ” for he concluded that this particular specimen must be after the pattern of her hostess. “ Not that I am aware of,” answered the lady, calmly — and always from a sublime height above her interlocutor — a pedestal of superiority. “ My objection to the Crystal Palace is that it is vulgar.” ‘‘ But every lady goes to the Crystal Palace,” put in Mrs. Binks, with an air of remonstrance. That is why I do not go,” answ^ered the lady in black. “And you are quite right, madam,” said Dalton. “ Keep on not going — say for the next ten years — and you’ll be the only woman in England who has not been there. Then you will be- come unique, and really valuable to your relatives.” “ Valuable to my relatives ! ” The hearse-horse absolutely appeared to rear, in her astonishment. “Well, yes; supposing you didn’t mind being exhibited, and money was an object to them What is that you are saying, Sir Bichard, about money ? Is it tight or loose just now ? ” “ Well, Mr. Dalton, it is tight, very tight.” THE WORM TURNS. 221 The rest of the company were appalled ; the idea of inter- rupting the flow of the baronet^s stertorous eloquence, who was just describing how a gentleman of his acquaintance had died worth half a million sterling, and without a will, seemed to them little less than blasphemous ; but the banker knew Dalton by reputation very well, and he dared not answer him as he would have wished. I hope you don’t find it tight. Sir Richard ? ” “ I ? No, sir,” answered the other, with irresistible fury at such a supposition. The general public are selling out ; but I am not the general public ; ” and he blew like a grampus. “ Thank heaven for that ! ” said Dalton. “ It is a satisfaction, I mean, to reflect,” added he, demurely, “ that in these specula- tive times we have one or two houses at least that can be de- pended upon, such as yours.” “ You are very obliging,” said Sir Richard, icily. Water ! ” repeated her ladyship, in the same imperative tones as before, pushing her glass towards Dalton. Again he filled her tumbler, and again she gave no sign of consciousness of his existence. “ She will have it, will she ? ” muttered Dalton, between his teeth. “ Then she shalU^ “ Don’t you mind her,” whispered Mrs. Binks, consolingly. “ I can see that you are annoyed, but I do assure you it is only her way. She has heard of your misfortune, and she cannot help showing her sense of the superiority of her position. She is really immensely rich, and we must make allowances.” “ If it is owing to the gin, we must excuse it altogether,” said Dalton ; the police magistrates always deal leniently with similar cases.” He took no pains to lower his voice ; and though Lady Beevor did not catch every word of this reply, she cer- tainly caught the word “ gin.,” for her face, which was rather gorgeously decorated with “ beauty-spots ” and other superficial ornaments of the same kind, became suddenly one universal red. The fatal monosyllable seemed to echo all round the table ; everyone stared at one another with a wild surprise at the intro- duction of a topic known to be so distasteful to Sir Richard and his lady. She had escaped from gin to be the wife of a banker and a baronet ; and any reference to the trade by which she had obtained her wealth was hateful to her, and tabooed by all her friends. The “ sensation ” was so excessive as to put a stop to all cal- culation — for that was what the conversation had consisted in. 222 FALLEN FORTUNES, “Silence’* may be “golden” in a general way, but at Mr. Dawkins’ table silence must have been something else, for speech was golden, since it solely concerned itself with gold. Scarcely anyone opened his mouth from that time till long after the dessert was placed upon the table, except to put something into it. Then Lady Beevor turned round to Dalton, and looking him straight in the face, opened her mouth — to yawn. Genuine female leaders of society, patrons of the Almack’s of old days, Dalton knew to have been very rude, even offensively rude ; but this woman’s conduct was utterly unparalleled in his experience. He looked at her with a sweet smile — while she yawned again — and leaning towards her, confidentially remarked, in a tone of sympathy that could be heard all round the table : “I, too, madam, have a large tooth at the back of my head^ stopped with gold.” If the magnificent but utterly misplaced candelabra which hung from the dining-room ceiling, and filled the room with glare and heat, had fallen plump upon the flowers and fruits, the sensation could hardly have been greater. The ladies rose and left the room in a disorderly manner ; the men remained staring at Dalton with resentful alarm, much as a flock of sheep face a strange dog. As for him, he passed the claret, and pro- ceeded to skin a peach during a silence that would have been profound but for Sir Richard’s stertorous breathing. Mr. Dawkins afterwards said that during that terrible pause — finding it a relief, and almost a necessity to resort to speculation — he laid five to two in his own mind upon the double event of the banker having a fit and his widow marrying again. It was at least five minutes before conversation was resumed, when Dalton finished his peach and rose from the table. He had shown himself ready to answer for his conduct, but he had no intention of presenting himseR, after it, in the drawing-room. Dawkins followed him into the hall. “ Upon my life,” he said, “ I think y^u were deuced rude to Lady Beevor.” “ My good sir, I only wished her to understand that I was not so utterly penniless as she imagined ; that I had a bit of gold in my possession still, and in the same place where she had one herself. I could not be so dull as your friends, but I endeavoured to be as vulgar, and I flatter myself I succeeded.” And with that he lit a cigar and marched out of the house. This shocking affair supplied a subject of conversation in capitalist circles for some months, almost to the exclusion of the usual Pactolus stream of talk. LAST DA YS. 223 CHAPTER XXVI. LAST DAYS. As soon as Dalton’s indignation had evaporated, which it did before he had smoked out his cigar, he felt for the first time in his life thoroughly ashamed of himself. Whatever might have been the aggravation, there had been no excuse for his having acted in a way unbecoming a gentleman ; and, worst of all, for his insulting a woman. As for what Dawkins and Company might think of his conduct, that did not concern him. When a man is “ lynched ” he very often deserves it ; but those who have put that rough mode of justice into effect may regret the circumstance on their own account, nevertheless. At the very least, people would say, and with truth, that he had “ forgotten himself,” that he had allowed his misfortunes, and the slights — real and imaginary — that had been put upon him to irritate him beyond the bounds of decency and good manners. Even this reflection, humiliating and bitter as it was, was more welcome than the thoughts which agitated him when his long walk was over — for he would not go to the expense of a cab — and drew near his own house. In a day or two it would pass out of his possession altogether, and even now was emptied of all those whose presence had made it dear to him. Thanks to him, they would never be sheltered by its roof again, or perhaps by any other that could be called “ home.” He felt a repug- nance to cross the threshold, and drew out a second cigar, v/ith the intention of passing another half-hour out of doors under its solace ; he had always been a smoker, but had never known the virtues of the wondrous weed as he knew them now. Then he reflected that cigars were dear, and that when his stock of them was exhausted, he must buy no more. So he put up his case, and went indoors with a heavy sigh. It is the smaller stings of Poverty, because they are incessant, and — like the toothache — will not permit you tt) forget them for an instant, that render it so intolerable. Having nothing else to do in town, and finding others at that season little occupied, he had contrived to get through most of his business on the previous day ; but he had once more to see the auctioneer, to make arrangements not only for the sale which Mr. Campden had promised to come up and superintend for him, but for the reservation of various articles of furniture. Not a 224 FALLEN FORTUNES. word had Edith said about saving anything from the hammer; but Dalton did his best to recall to mind what objects had been especially dear to her and the children. It was a painful, almost a heartrending task to enter her boudoir, and the bedrooms of his girls, each fitted up after her own taste and fancy, and to feel that what they had set such store by was to pass into the hands of strangers. Their books and knickknacks he did indeed reserve, and the smaller of the two pianos, which he rightly judged would be prized indeed at San beck ; but when all was done in the way of salvage, it was little indeed by contrast to the general wreck. Then, to complete his wretchedness, he had to dismiss the servants, which he did individually with a kind Avord and a liberal douceur to each. They had not far to go for places, for Mrs. Dalton was known to be an excellent mistress, whose recommendation carried weight ; but some of them seemed as sorry as though they had been ruined like himself. “ Such a many years as I have been with you, sir,” faltered one old fellow, “ and now to part like this 1 I shall never get such another master,” he added naively, “ and far less such a missus.” “ You are right there, my man,” groaned Dalton ; “you never will.” “ Might I not stop ? ” said another (it Avas the young ladies* maid), Avhen he had explained to her in a few words the neces- sity for parting with her. “ I would be glad to serve the young ladies, sir, for nothing, Vm sure. Why, poor Miss Jenny, how Avill she ever get on without me — that is, for a permanency ? Though I don’t deny but as Lucy can look after her for a week or two.” It had been decided that Lucy was the only one of the do- mestics who, in justice to themselves, could be retained. Old Jonathan Landell had left a housekeeper behind him, who, with a village serving girl, would be all that the family would require in their new and humble home. But the “ saying no ” — always a difficult task to John Dalton — had never been so painful to him as on the present occasion, notwithstanding that he after- wards humourously compared it with Napoleon parting with his Guards at Fontainebleau. Proud, tender-hearted, and remorseful, what he suffered during those last days in town was such as to have almost moved Lady Beevor herself — had she but known it — to pity and forgiveness. When he had taken his passage — second class — at the London agent’s, by the Flamborough Head, for Bio, and written to his I AST DAYS. 225 Edith, as she had requested, to tell her that he had done so, his cup of bitterness was full indeed. His arrangements with his lawyer were not after all com- pleted quite so soon — for when does that ever happen ? — as had been promised ; but on the fourth day, by the last train, he contrived to get back to Riverside. It was a wretched night, wild with wind and rain ; and his surprise and distress were great at finding Edith in the closed carriage that met him at the station. “How coidd you come out, my darling, on such a night as this ? ’’ “ How could I stay within doors ? was the fond reply, “ and wait an hour, when so few are left to me, that could be spent with you ! ” What a treasure of love was this that he was leaving, perhaps for ever ! What unfathomable depths of unselfish devotion ! What agonies, what fears, would his absence beget in her ! He almost wished that he did not love her so, or that she were not so worthy of his love. I sit me down, and think of all thy winning ways, says the poet, over the sick child that he fears he is about to lose — Yet almost wisli^ with sudden shrink, that I had less to praise. And thus it was with Dalton. It is one of the horrors of parting with those we love, that even the space of time that is still left to us before we separate, cannot all be passed in communion one with another, but is trenched upon by retrospection and misgiving; fond remem- brances of the past, vague forebodings as to the future. Even when she was nestling in her husband’s arms, the agonising thought, “ In ten — in five — in two days, he will be gone from me,^^ would force its way into Edith’s mind, and turn her very love into despair. Dalton felt this scarcely less ; so did the girls, and even Tony, who was a very affectionate child, albeit, being a child, separation, while it was only in prospect, was not so palpable to him — and therefore all did their best to act, and not to think. The Nook was now vacant, and ready for their reception ; and a hundred little plans were made and carried out for making it “ nice and comfortable for dear mamma.” As for Edith herself, she cared nothing about the matter — how should she, whose thoughts were fixed on one beloved object, each day, as it seemed, receding from her gaze ! — but seeing that her husband and children took so lively an interest in it, Q 226 FALLEN FORTUNES. slie afFecied to do the like, and was at least genuinely grateful to them . The day the piano, and the best-loved little pictures, and the favourite knickknacks and books (which included all Tony’s juvenile library), came down from town, was made quite a gala- day by the poor Daltons ; it was ‘‘ so thoughtful ” of dear papa, and “50 like him,” to have remembered everybody’s likings. Only Edith was afraid that all ought to have been sold, and that they were extravagant in keeping so many pretty things for themselves. But there was no question of the improvement that these articles — quite apart from the sentiment that hung about them like a perfume — made in the old-fashioned rooms of the farmhouse. The only thing it had possessed in the way of ornament were a couple of ancient oak-chests, one in the parlour, and one in the kitchen, very beautifully carved, and which only required a little polish to have made them the envy of Mayfair, which was just then as much given up to those “ dear delightful carved- oak things,” as it afterwards became to that “ too exquisite old china.” Jenny found at once in them the most original pat- terns for her lace-work, and professed to be better satisfied with the house generally, and all that it contained, than anybody ; but it is doubtful whether in the first instance this approval was not assumed, to do away with any idea that might have been entertained of the hTook not being suitable for an invalid. She soon came, however, to entertain a hona fide love for the place ; the literary treasures which it contained being very numerous, and quite novel to her. These, however, could scarcely be counted as ornaments, being for the most part heavy old-fashioned tomes, all of them time-worn, and many of them moth-eaten. By the side of the smart Tennysons and trim Brownings, sent from Cardigan Place, they hardly seemed to be books at all ; just as the aged and the ragged who peer through the gates of Hyde Park upon the glories of “ the Row” in spring-time, half doubtful (and with reason) whether they shall be admitted to a nearer view of them, scarcely appear of the same race as the gallant cavaliers and haughty ladies who are taking their pleasure therein. The time came when Jenny was astonished to find how much poetry, wisdom, and good Bense were to be found in these homely volumes, and fought greedily with the moth and worm for their contents ; but for the present she confined herself of necessity to praise of the exter- nals of their new abode. LAST DA YS. 227 ‘‘We shall all be so happy here — at least, as happy as we can be while yon are away — and so quiet and cosy, dear papa,” she said, “ that I am sure we shall have nothing to wish for, except to get you back again,” Of all the unhappy family, indeed, each of whom played his part so bravely in the cruel calamity that had overtaken them, there was none more courageous, more confident, or more hope- ful than she who was the chief cause of their anxiety. Her general behaviour was such as to draw encomium even from Mr. Marks, the butler, who expressed his opinion in the servants’ hall, amid marks of adhesion, that Miss Jenny was a rare good plucked ’un.” It was Edith’s hope that, before her husband’s departure, they might have taken up their abode at the Hook, and bidden good- bye to him from what was in future to take the place of home ; but quickly as matters were pushed on with this intent, the thing was found impracticable ; and when the dark day of his departure came round, they were all still staying at Riverside. The day before, they had driven over to Sanbeck — as, indeed, they had done every day — and taken a sort of farewell of him there. The sense that when they next went thither, he would not be with them ; that the little family would have lost — for it seemed little less than loss — its beloved head, was heavy upon them all ; but they bore up for each other’s sake. At Dalton’s wish, they walked about the village, in order that he might make himself well acquainted with it, to enable him to picture them there at their ordinary avocations : his wife among the poor folks — though now, alas ! she could befriend them little, for she was almost as poor as they ; Kitty on the hill-side sketching, with Jenny with a book beside her ; and Tony fishing in the trout-stream. The summer was coming to an end, but it was pleasant to have these pictures with its warmth and glow still on them. Upon the bridge, which commanded a lovely home prospect, Dalton and his wife stopped a little behind the rest. “ Well, my darling, I shall at least leave you in a beautiful spot.” “Yes, dearest,” she answered, with a fond pressure of her hand upon his arm, doubtless intended to imply content. Eor her part, she hated the place, so far as her nature could harbour hate of anything, for was it not already dulled and darkened by the shadow of separation, and would it not be associated ever with that supreme misfortune ? The humblest alley in London, 228 FALLEN FORTUNES. with her husband left to her, would have been to her a paradise by comparison with it. “ And we shall meet again — never fear,” whispered he, with a tremulousness that went far to belie his words. “ I do not doubt it, darling,” was her firm reply. Her eye had wandered to the village churchyard, a serene and sunny spot, with a few nameless graves in it, among which some sheep were feeding. She did not doubt it ; but that meeting she felt would never take place on earth. She would be taken iherQ first, and laid in her grave ; and afterwards, in God’s good time, they would meet again in heaven. But he was comforted by the calmness of her tone, not only then, but in many weary months to come, wherein, thanks to it, he pictured to himself another sort of meeting. When they were all together that night in ‘‘mamma’s” room, he made for the first time a statement of his affairs, explain- ®*ing what was left of the wreck of his fortunes for these dear ones to live upon. It was a miserable yearly pittance ; but he had taken care to provide a hundred pounds or so to meet present needs, and to defray those extra expenses which it was almost impossible that they, who were so unused to close econo- mies, should at first avoid incurring. Edith listened with obedient ear, but, her mind fixed on the morrow’s loss, took in but little of what was said. Kitty, too, was overcome by her sorrow ; but Jenny laid every word to heart. They had expected her to be the weakest of them all, but she had resolved to show herself strong and hopeful ; instead of an embarrassment, she would be a prop to their fallen fortunes — nay, even, God willing, a mainstay. Dalton had a word of advice for each, which, coming from him, who was so unused to give it, was as touching as his very farewell. They had all — thanks, as he said, to their mother’s teaching — been good chil- dren, the best, indeed, he was well convinced, that ever father had, and he had no fears for any of them. The characters of the two girls were already developed ; but little Tony was so young. “There is your pattern, my boy,” he said, pointing to Edith ; “ imitate her, obey her, cleave to her. If I should never come back to you, you must be her defender, her guardian, her bread- winner ; and may you fulfil your trust, lad, better than I.” Poor Tony, who understood little of this, was bathed in tears, and clung passionately to his mother. “ I would rather stay with mamma than even go to Eton,” he FAREIVELLS, 229 said ; which, under the circumstances, was as strong an assevera- tion as could be made. “ You will have them all about you, Edith ; that is mj com- fort,” said Dalton, earnestly. “ But you — you will be alone, my darling,” answered she. It was for him she w^as thinking, weeping, praying, all along. The true parting of the little family from its head took place that night, for Edith could not trust herself to come downstairs next day till he was gone. He left her in her room, half-dead, but murmuring to the last that she w^as hopeful, happy, confident of his return — lies that were holier than any truths. She knew that she was strengthening him by those last words ; and if they had been her own last breath, she would have “eked his living out ” with it. CHAPTER XXVII. FAREWELLS. There were other partings that would have wrung Dalton’s heart, had it not been already wrung out to the very core. Jeff, with his large black eyes filled with unaccustomed tears, had a word with him in private. “ God bless you, Mr. Dalton,” faltered he ; “you have always been a good friend to me, and I am very, very sorry ” “ Never mind, my lad ; all will come right with us, no doubt,” interrupted Dalton, cheerfully. “ You must not give way like that, but help to keep up their spirits, now I have left them. My wife and the girls — and of course Tony — will be looking to you for that, you know.” “Yes, yes, that is what I wished to say ; for though, as I said, you have been always good to me, Mrs. Dalton — she — I would lay down my life for Mrs. Dalton ! ” cried the lad, with energy ; “and Kitty — I love Kitty, sir.” “ And Jenny too, I hope, my lad,” said Dalton. He under- stood what the boy meant well enough, but his time was too short, his mind too full, to argue with him upon such a hopeless passion, which at Jeff’s age, moreover, could hardly be held a serious thing. “ Yes, sir, and Jenny, too, but nob as I love Kitty,” continued the other, with great earnestness. “ I should like you to know that before you go.” “ Well, you shall talk to me about that, Jeff, when I come back 230 FALLEN FORTUNES, again,” returned Dalton, kindly. “ There is plenty of time before you as to that matter, and very little left for me just now. You’ll keep an eye on little Tony, won’t you ? ” “ I will keep my eye on all of them, and do my very best for them, Mr. Dalton ; so help me God ! ” There was a manliness about the handsome lad, as he drew himself up, as with the consciousness of the responsibility he had thus solemnly undertaken, that impressed itself upon Dalton for the first time. He had always regarded Jeff as a mere lad, and almost in the same category as Tony himself. How he held out his hand for the other to shake, as a man holds it to his equal in age and standing. Jeff took it, and, to his infinite surprise, carried it to his lips ; then suddenly left the room — just as Holt entered it. “ I wanted to have three words with you alone, Dalton.” “ Very good, my good sir. I am quite at your service.” Dalton had been unmanned for the instant at Jeff’s unexpected manifestation of supreme regard ; but at the sight of the new- comer he had become firm as a rock, and, truth to say, as hard. His dislike to Holt — though it would have been hard to say why, for the man’s manner had been singularly free from offence of late, and indeed, of signification of any kind — had grown within the last few days to positive hatred. He especially resented that he had been asked to stay on at Riverside, and was not about to leave it, apparently, even now. “ There is a certain subject, Dalton, which has been tacitly tabooed to both of us of late, but to which I wish to revert once again before you go.” Dalton uttered a little sigh of relief. At the man’s first words he had grown pale and grim, apprehensive that this tabooed subject might be his daughter Kate ; but as she had never been spoken of between them, it was plain that Holt could not be re- ferriog to her. Say what you like to me, my good sir,” said Dalton, carelessly, ‘‘ since it is not likely you will have another chance for some time to come.” “ That is the very point I wish you to re- consider,” observed Holt, gravely. “ What point ? ” ‘‘As to your going to Brazil. 1 knew your mind was set upon it, and have therefore forborne to dissuade you from what I will stake my existence will be a profitless and disappointing errand. But really, after what I have seen during the last few FAREWELLS. 231 days — or rather have felt without perceiving — (for they all bear themselves like heroines) of the distress and angaish your de- parture is causing to your family, I am compelled to make one more effort to move you from your purpose. If you had really any definite aim, if there was any positive good to be derived from such an expedition, I would be the last to deter you ; indeed, as you remember, I advised your going abroad — though it is true I did not then understand how deeply it would be taken to heart by those belonging to you. But now, when I see you actually starting upon this wild-goose chase, throwing the good money you have lost after bad, and your wife and children “Look here, Holt,” interrupted Dalton, fiercely; “ my wife and children are my wife and children. I have little left to me, but they at least are mine. Be so good as to let me and mine alone.” “You are very unjust and very harsh to me, Dalton,” answered the other, in quiet, almost pleading tones. “Any man may surely be permitted to express sorrow not only for his friend, but for his friend’s belongings.” “Ho doubt ; but you were seeking to make them the pretext of an argument. As to my going to St. Jose, have you any new reasons to urge why I should not do so, except your own conviction of its futility.” “Well, even that is stronger than yours is to the contrary; but I have, as it happens, new reasons — a thousand of them. I have had a telegram this very morning which authorises me to buy up your shares in the Lara for a thousand pounds. I think the man is mad, but he means what he says ; and I shall think you twice as mad as he if you decline his offer. It frees you at once from all these distressing responsibilities — for that he specially undertakes to do — and puts a thousand pounds in your pocket to begin life anew with. With your talents and with my experience, what may we not gain with it ? Or even if you forswear ‘ the City,’ a thousand pounds is a sum to rest upon, and look about you ” “ One moment. Holt. Who offers to buy these shares ? ” Keen, darting suspicion was in the speaker’s eye, and his tone had a harsh, sharp ring as he put this inquiry. “ Let us see,” said Holt, coolly drawing out the yellow missive from his pocket ; “ the people here were not on the look-out — that always happens with your private wires — so it was sent over from the station. Brand telegraphs : Mavor will tahe 232 FALLEN FORTUNES. shares, and give one thousand pounds. You know Mavor — a very speculative fellow indeed.” “ Yes ; but, from what I remember of him, not a likely man to have a thousand pounds at his banker’s, far less to be respon- sible for ” “ Nay ; so far, that is my affair,” broke in the other, eagerly. I should not advise you to accept the offer, if I did not guarantee its being genuine. Mavor is as good as the bank — that is my opinion ; but at all events I will go bail for Mavor. Now, think of it, Dalton. Here is a reprieve, if not a pardon, come for you. Upon my life, it is scarcely less ! Think of the joy that will overspread the faces of your wife and children, when they hear your intention of taking this mad journey has been abandoned. Think of this day of sorrow ” “No; I will not think of it,” broke in Dalton, fiercely. “ This offer may be all on the square, or it may not ” “Dalton! ” “ I was not speaking of you. Holt ; or if I was, you must forgive me — I hardly know what I say. You may have made this proposal out of pure friendship and my own good ; if so, I thank you for it from the bottom of my heart. But I shall stick to the Lara. If it is w^orth Mavor’s while, it is worth my while ; so don’t let us waste breath upon the matter.” Nevertheless, Dalton’s determination had cost him a terrible struggle. He knew far better than Holt could tell him, the happiness that he would have conferred upon his dear ones by a change in his resolve to leave them, even without the gilding of those thousand pounds. The thought of the weary, lonely journey before him, was hateful to him in every way. But that anonymous advice, which he had just now — almost uncon- sciously — repeated — “ Stick to the Lara ” — combined with this new and more favourable offer to purchase his interest in it, made his suspicions stronger than ever, that some underhand agency — he knew notwhat nor where — was at work in connection with the Brazil mine, which was only to be detected by personal investigation. These misgivings, however, were certainly of the vaguest kind, nor had he a shadow of reason for supposing Holt to be implicated in the matter. The man’s behaviour under the circumstances had really been generous ; and his own rejec- tion of his help had been cold and thankless, if not absolutely offensive. Yet Holt showed no sign of irritation ; when he saw all argument was vain, he only observed simply; “A wilful paan will h^ve his way,” FAREWELLS. 233 Perhaps he is really sorry for me,** thought Dalton, re- morsefully ; and he shook hands with his quondam friend, and almost partner, with a heartiness of which he had not thought himself capable in respect to him. “ You have entrusted me with no good offices in your absence, Dalton ; but I hope to be of use to you, nevertheless,’* said the other, gently. If he had offered, as usual, to be “ useful to him and his,” Dalton would perhaps have resented it, as he had done before ; but as it was, he thanked him with some warmth. “Still, you give me nothing to do for you,” urged Holt with unexpected persistence. “ If you should want money ’* “ I have made arrangements for that,’* interrupted Dalton, hastily. “My old friend Campden has kindly offered to be my banker ; and here he is.’* As he entered. Holt withdrew from the library, in which Dalton was holding a sort of farewell levee. “ I don’t know what to make of that man, George,** observed he, as the book-door closed behind his previous visitor. “ Some- times I think him little better than a scoundrel ; sometimes I credit him with good intentions.” “ My wife has rather cottoned to the fellow of late,** replied Mr. Campden, “and owns she used to judge him harshly. How, for her to confess she has been in the wrong, is rather ” “A portent,” auswered Dalton, smiling. “ Well, it shows at all events there is something in the fellow. I really don’t know whether it is good or bad. He was just now offering to lend me money; but I told him that, while I was away, you had kindly given me permission to draw on you.” “Well, yes, my dear fellow,” hesitated Mr. Campden, “I believe I did.” His honest face had become crimson ; he hitched at his neckcloth, and pulled at his shirt-cuffs — “shooting his linen’* is the technical phrase for that form of nervousness — in evidently dire distress of mind. “But the fact is, one doesn’t much like being drawn upon.” “ What on earth do you mean, Campden ? ** answered the other, growing very white. “Well, of course you are welcome to the money, my dear fellow — any amount of it that I can get at. Here’s a couple of hundreds in fivers, which Well, that’s the only way I can do it, John ; and that’s the long and short of it.” And Mr. Campden took out his handkerchief and wiped his forehead, which w^as bedewed with a cold perspiration. I SQC,” said Dalton, coldly ; your wife will not let you.” 234 FALLEN FORTUNES, ThaVs it, my good friend,” answered the other, with a gush of thankfulness that the worst had now been said. She doesn’t like my being drawn upon : bills and so on always frighten her, because she doesn’t understand them. And she has made me promise that, not even in your case — don’t you see ? It is very foolish of her, of course ; but then they all are such fools — that is, all except your wife. She would trust a fellow to any extent.” Dalton groaned, for had she not trusted him, and to her cost ? His friend, however, mistook the cause of his dejection. “ I know it must seem deuced hard. The idea of my not giving you power to draw on me is simply ridiculous ; and scurvy too — at least it would have been if I had objected to it myself. I am quite ashamed to go back from my word in this way. But some wives make such a row — yours never does, bless her — that one is obliged to give way. But you understand you can have the money.” “ I qhite understand, Campden ; but I douT want the money, thank you.” Dalton was both hurt and indignant. He knew it was very natural that his henpecked friend should have given in to his wife’s importunity and virulence against him (Dalton) ; but he was irritated that Mrs. Campden should know that he had accepted her husband’s offer as to the bill-drawing, or that any such offer had been made. What right had any man to do a kindness and then go and boast of it — or excuse himself for it, it was all one — to his wife ? At such a moment it was, perhaps, natural in him to exaggerate the importance of his own affairs ; to consider that, under the circumstances, no matter what was his friend’s domestic thraldom, that little favour — or rather the promise of it, if any necessity should arise — might have been kept private between them. “How, don’t let us part like this, Dalton ! ” cried the other earnestly. “ It is only the form, and not the thing, that is changed ; and you know I am not changed.” “ A man and his wife are one,” answered Dalton ; “ very much one, it seems, in this case, since you think it necessary to tell her every trumpery thing ” “ My good fellow, to tell you the honest truth, I could not have got the money without it,” interrupted Campden, despe- rately. “You don’t know — you can’t understand : she is a veiy good woman in her way, is Julia, and I know you won’t say anything against her,” answered he, hurriedly; “ but sometimes she IV ill take the bit between her teeth,” FAREWELLS. 23s And then she runs away — with all your money, does she said Dalton, unable to repress a smile. He was still angry, but only against this woman ; for his friend he now felt simply pity mingled largely with contempt. We rarely make allowance for other people’s weaknesses, although we have such excellent excuses for our own. ‘‘ Well, I must confess she keeps me rather short,” said Campden, ruefully. Come to Brazil with me ! ” cried Dalton. It was a sneer equal to a folio of disdain, and the next moment he was sorry for it. ‘‘ Ho, old fellow, I can’t do that,” returned his friend, good- naturedly. “ We have all to put up with something, and I know many better men in far worse case than I — you, yourself, for instance.” I seem to myself to be the worst-used man in the world,” answered Dalton, frankly. “ Let that be my apology if I have spoken harshly. Good-bye, old friend.” Good-bye, John.” And although a something had been interposed that day between their friendship, which was never removed, they shook hands with genuine feeling. Mrs. Campden and Mary came in to bid their guest farewell together. The former averred to her husband that she “ could not trust herself ” to wish tliat man good-bye, alone, without giving him a piece of her mind as to his past conduct (that is, in ruining his family), as well as some warning as to the future ; but, as a matter of fact, she was afraid of Dalton. If she had known what her “ George” had just been confessing, she would have been much more afraid. However, Dalton’s manner towards his hostess was studiously polite, and Mary’s presence saved them from any possible embarrassment. He was a genuine favourite with the young lady, and she was very “ gush- ing ” upon his departure, and about the care she meant to take of his dear girls when he was gone. “We shall be quite near neighbours to them, remember, Mr. Dalton,” remarked her mother, as though he were likely to forget the Hook’s locality. She was very nervous, and said little beyond that, except her parting speech, which was com- monplace enough, and yet, under the circumstances, not a little peculiar. “Well, ^ood-bye, Mr. Dalton, and I hope you’ll enjoy your- self.” As though, in place of a voyage to Brazil, he were going FALLEN FORTUNES. 236 to spend a liappy day’* at Rosherville Gardens, as Dalton described it afterwards. But the truth is that, difficult as it is to find fit words to say to a man we dislike, when we meet him, it is much more difficult to do the like when we part from him, and especially if the occasion is a sentimental one. We need not describe the leave-taking between Dalton and his own belongings, indeed there was little said on either side ; for their hearts were too full for speech. To Edith, as we have mentioned, he had already bidden good-bye ; but now, finding, though the carriage was at the door, that he had still a few minutes to spare, a longing seized him to see her once again. He rushed upstairs, and hastily entered the room ; but she heard him not. She was kneeling down by the bedside with her back towards him, and her face shut within her hands. “ Protect him, and bring him back to my dear ones,” he heard her praying in earnest, passionate tones. Deeply moved, he hesitated a moment, and then softly withdrew. He would not interrupt that rapt communion between his wife and her God. Why had she said “ to my dear ones,” and not ‘Ho me ?” he wondered ; but presently set it down to her freedom from the thought of “self,” which might not intrude even in her prayers. For once he did her more than justice; it was not unselfishness that had dictated Edith’s words. She had had such warnings in the way of physical weakness, that she had given up all hopes of his return to her ; she was not imploring Heaven for a miracle ; but only that her children should not be left in a world that no longer smiled upon them, without one parent. CHAPTER XXYIII. MR. HOLT ASKS MAMMA. Is it worse for us who depart from this world and all we really love (because from all of which we have any practical expe- rience), or for those who love us and are left ? Surely — let us reverently hope — infinitely worse for them. If not, woe indeed to man, and misleading as the marsh-fire all the flame of faith, the glow of aspiration. And what (we hope) is true of a death- bed parting, is certainly true of those foreshadowings of it, a man’s departure on long travel, or emigration across seas, or to the wars. He has gone to his business, and will be more or less taken up with and immersed in it ; while those at home who aro HOLT ASKS MAMMA, 237 dependent upon him, or on the result of his labours, have to face the void that he has left by the fireside and at the board. New scenes, new companions, distract and employ his mind ; but they pursue the same small round of life, and must needs miss him from it. As to Edith Dalton, there was not an hour of the day during which the fact of her husband’s departure was not brought home to her with a bitter pang, nor a single minute during which the consciousness of it did not oppress her with a weight like lead. Her only solace was found in her children, and she longed, above all things, to find herself alone with them, under a roof of their own, no matter how humble. Widowhood is respected by all ; no friends, except the nearest, trespass on its privacy, when bereavement is yet new and strange ; and was not she bereaved, who knew so well that she should never see her lost one more ? No one could fathom her wretchedness ; yet, despite her utmost efforts to conceal it, even the shallowest could per- ceive that she was wretched. There was something beyond mere pathos in her looks and tone — though, indeed, she spoke but little — that impressed itself on all who saw her ; and it was from a sort of awe which she thus awakened, and not from mere pity (as her hostess endeavoured to persuade herself), that Mrs. Campden shrank from continuing that conversation with her guest which had been cut short by Dr. Curzon’s call. The topic she had wished to introduce — her plan for raising the broken fortunes of the Dalton family — she had indeed, as we have seen, confided to Kitty, and in doing so (though it would have stag- gered some people) she had experienced little embarrassment ; but to speak of it now with Edith was another matter. She would at least try, in the first place, whether Mr. Holt could not be made to speak with her for himself. He, of course, was the proposed topic ; and a marriage between him and Kate the plan that Mrs. Campden had hit upon to relieve her relatives from their embarrassment. There were many reasons to recom- mend it to her. It was the shortest way, and it was the cheapest way, since it would not only involve no outlay in itself, but prevent the necessity of helping the family, whom it would in- deed be an impertinence to assist, when they had acquired so wealthy and near a connection as the prosperous stockbroker. Besides these very natural arguments, I am afraid — for I regret to have to hint at such a weakness in so eminently Christian a lady — Mrs. Campden was rather pleased at the notion of the once universally -admired Kate’s acceptance of this very second- FALLEN FORTUNES. 238 class husband. Her design had been unfolded pretty quickly to the object of her good intentions, but not before it had been guessed by Jenny, who, upon the first opportunity, as has been shown, had expressed her strong disapprobation of it ; for upon the nature of the “ sacrifice,” for which she had endeavoured to show there was no necessity, there could scarcely be a doubt. Moreover, Mr. Holt himself was perfectly aware of the scheme laid by his hostess for his domestic happiness, and also for the reasons that prompted it. He knew that he had not been asked to stay on at Riverside — for even yet, after the departure of the friend who was his raison d'etre, the cause of his being there, he was still pressed to do so — for nothing. The invitation had been given by his hostess without a word of endorsement from her husband ; that gentleman endured his presence with much patience, but gave no sign of appreciating it ; but Mrs. Campden, who had been wont to treat him with such scant civility, was now all smiles and courtesy. In public she paid him the most marked attention ; in private she was even more familiar with him, but it was a familiarity that bordered on contempt. She thought he was shilly-shallying; that he had “let the grass grow under his feet,” in prosecuting his addresses to her young friend, and had no scruples in letting him know it ; and this was done — such was the adroitness of the female conspirator — with- out actually indicating the matter on hand. They used the same delicacy that receivers of stolen goods are said to employ when speaking of their effects, while at the same time they went to the point. They were talking together on the morning that suc- ceeded Dalton’s departure, and just after the carriage had been dispatched with the three girls to the Hook, where they were to employ themselves all day in getting matters ready as quickly as possible. For once, Mrs. Dalton had “broken down,” and though it was understood that she would make her appearance at luncheon, had not quitted her room since her husband left it. “Well, Mr. Holt, the young people have deserted us again, you see ; you have not too many opportunities, I fear, of making yourself agreeable. Yet I am sure I do all I can.” “You are most kind, indeed, Mrs. Campden. But you would not have had me volunteer to accompany the young ladies to Sanbeck, when they declined the services of even Mr. Derwent — a much older acquaintance ? ” “ Oh, Geoffrey is of no consequence one way or the other,” answered Mrs. Campden, pettishly; “though, no doubt, he would be better out of the way. It might have been dangerous MR. HOLT ASKS MAMMA. 239 to volunteer ; but then one must risk something. They will be settled in their new home in a few days, remember, so that there is very little time to spare, certainly none to waste.’’ “ Yes ; but I have hnown her such a very little time,” re- monstrated Mr. Holt, with heightened colour ; he had never gone so far as to mention “ her ” before. “True; but you must recollect that she is a very intelligent girl, and will make every allowance for the circumstances. In- deed, Mr. Holt, it is idle to blink the fact that the present con- juncture of affairs is very much in your favour.” He knew all she meant, just as well as though she had said : “ This misfortune of our young friend is your opportunity ; unless it had occurred, you would have had no more chance of marrying this girl than of getting the moon ; ” yet, outwardly at least, he did not wince. His dead-cold eyes were here of advan- tage to him, for they betrayed nothing. “Why don’t you ask her?” continued Mrs. Campden, im- patient at his silence. “ She is so cast down and out of spirits just now,” pleaded the other. “ What ! because Mr. Dalton has gone to Brazil ? What nonsense ! It is not as if the man were dead. On the contrary, there is all the more reason why, having lost fortune and father, she should welcome a cavalier.” But the assuring smile with which the lady spoke was by no means reflected by her guest. “ My dear madam,” said he, gravely, “ I dare not, and that’s the truth. If her answer should be ‘ No ’ — it seems foolish to say so, no doubt — but if it w^as, and I fear it would be ” “It is foolish, Mr. Holt,” broke in the other, with irritation : “ you are too diflB.dent, too deprecatory of your own advantages. She would be mad to refuse such an offer ; and if she did, it would only be for a time. We should make some opportunity, a few weeks hence, of getting you back at Riverside — trust to me for that — and you would find her wiser by then. A few weeks at the Nook will tire her of cottage life, or I am much mis- taken.” “Madam, I dare not do it,” answered Holt, earnestly; his face fairly quivered with emotion, his forehead was damp, and his voice hoarse and low. If he had been courting her own Mary, and betrayed this agitation, Mrs. Campden would have graciously accepted it, as the homage to her daughter’s charms, and still more to her FALLEN FORTUNES. 240 exalted position, to which he might well feel it was madness in him to aspire ; but in the present case she had no patience with the man’s folly. “ I do not see anything to be afraid of, myself,” answered she, contemptuously ; “ you know the proverb, ‘ Faint heart never won fair lady,’ Still you may approach the matter by another route. If you will not make your application direct, what do you say to ‘ asking mamma ? ’ ” “ I would rather do that — much rather,” was the unexpected reply. Mrs. Campden could not understand how he could dare the cannon’s mouth, and yet shrink from that of a drawing-room rifle. She did not comprehend — perhaps she was incapable of comprehending it — that Kate was to this man a divinity, to be approached with fear and reverence, and in whose hand, as it seemed to him, lay the issues of happiness and misery. How- ever, she was well pleased to find that he would make his attempt in any way; and it was decided that he should do so, should an opportunity offer itself, that very afternoon, while the young ladies were at San beck. It is fair to the hostess of Riverside to say that she did her very best, when her guest and kinswoman came down to lun- cheon that day, to simulate sympathy for her forlorn condition ; the genuine article she did not possess, and therefore could not offer it, but she showed her pity, with only a very slight alloy of condescension. Where she did (though perhaps unconsciously) exhibit her sense of her own superiority, and of the change in their relations, was in her behaviour to Jeff. Hitherto, the presence of Mrs. Dalton had always had a mitigating effect upon his hostess’ denunciation of his delinquencies, but why should she spare him now, when that lady’s opinion of her was so much deteriorated in value ? He had done nothing especially wrong that day, but she was especially angry with him, mainly on account of his being at Riverside at all. Mr. Holt had dropped an expression or two which had led her to imagine that he looked upon the lad, if not actually as a rival, still as an obstacle to the accomplishment of his design ; and though she had spoken of him, as we have seen, contemptuously enough — “ Geoffrey is of no consequence one way or the other” — she secretly agreed with Mr. Holt that there was danger in the boy. On this occasion she seized the opportunity of the conver- sation turning upon Dalton’s departure, to praise action and decry indolence. “ Even if your husband gains nothing else by MR. HOLT ASKS MAMMA. 241 his expedition, Edith, he will have the satisfaction of knowing that he did his best : anything is better than eating the bread of idleness or dependence ; and she cast a look of sovereign dis- pleasure upon Geoffrey Derwent, as she emphasised the last three words. Jeff coloured to the roots of his curly hair, but answered nothing, only stole a glance at Mr. Campden, who moved uncomfortably upon his seat. He knew that duty called on him to defend the boy. He had told him scores of times, with his own lips, that to his father’s friendship he was deeply indebted for his own fortunes, and that the lad need never feel any sense of obligation for any favours that he received from him and his ; thab Kiverside was his home ; nay, he had even hinted — and most certainly had intended it so — that Jeff need not concern himself about his future, for which he, Mr. Campden, would take care to provide. “ My dear,” said he, cutting a large slice of roast-beef with unnecessary haste and vigour, “ it is all very well to talk of indolence ; but in these days the professions are all so full, and for that matter, the trades also, that a man can’t always find work to his hand.” “ A man can always do something, Mr. Campden,” replied his wife, severely; “and my remark holds still more truly of a boy.” “Well, of course there is commerce, my dear: but I have withdrawn from it so long that I have no longer any influence ; and remember, to get a lad into a good house, a large premium is required, even when he gets no salary.” Mr. Campden helped himself to walnut pickle with compla- cency ; he had hit the nail on the head, he flattered himself, by showing that it was cheaper to keep Jeff at home than to send him away. “ I am not speaking of commerce,” answered Mrs. Campden, acidly ; “ of course people that have no money must do as they can. There is the merchant service, for instance, where, it so happens, you have interest ; and though Geoffrey has been allowed to waste some years of his life in luxury and idleness, your influence would overcome the objection to employ a lad of his years. He cannot expect, of course, to rise at once to the top of the tree ” “ The cross-trees,” suggested Mr. Campden, with a feeble smile. “ I say, no boy who goes to sea,” continued Mrs. Campden, frowning, “ can expect to be an admiral at once.” R 242 FALLEN FORTUNES, Not in the merchant service/^ murmured her husband — but this time in confidence to his shirt-collar — because there arc no admirals.” “Yet I cannot imagine any lad of spirit not preferring honourable employment, however humble, to living upon the bounty of his friends.” “ My dear, my dear ! ” ejaculated Mr. Campden, imploringly ; you have hurt the lad^s feelings.” Jeff had risen from his seat, and leaving his unfinished meal, walked straight out of the room. Mrs. Dalton, who had sat a silent spectator of the scene, had lifted her hand to lay it upon Lis sleeve, but had been too late. “ I fear, Julia, you have gone too far,” said she, in a firm but gentle tone. “ It^s an infamous shame ! ” cried Tony, with a burst of boyish passion, as he ran out of the dining-room after his friend. Mrs. Campdeii’s face was white with wrath, with that trifling but prominent exception of the tip of her nose. “ You may all express what opinion you please,” said she, “and couch it in what terms you please ; but if anything I have said shall have stung Geoffrey Derwent into doing something for himself — it being such high time — I do not regret it.” And with that, like a frigate who has just delivered both, broadsides with, crushing effect, she sailed triumphantly out of the room. Mr. Campden muttered “ Tut, tut ! ” his note of dissatisfaction when his mate had performed any more than usually high- lianded act, and followed her in nervous haste, so that Mrs. Dalton and Mr. Holt were left alone together. “ I regret,” said he — “ I deplore above all things that our hostess should exhibit this inimicable feeling towards Mr. Derwent, who appears to me to be a most inoffensive young man.” “ He is better than inoffensive, Mr. Holt,” replied Mrs. Dalton, gravely ; “ he is a most excellent lad. I have known him from a child, and have never detected a single serious flaw in his character : a more honest or more unselfish nature I have never met with. Not the least regret that I feel for our own change of fortune is that we are now powerless to help poor Jeff.” “ But I am not powerless,” observed the other, quickly ; “ that is to say, if the possession of some stake in the world of commerce can be called power. And you may be quite sure, Mrs. Dalton, that whatever aid I can offer to any friend of yours will be most gladly — most eagerly afibrded. It is very MR. HOLT ASKS MAMMA. 243 obvious that the poor lad’s position here is uncomfortable, if not untenable ; and if you think a responsible position in my office is worth his acceptance, he is very welcome to it, and I think I may venture to say that, in that case, no one need trouble them- selves about his future.” “ My dear Mr. Holt, you are most kind,” said Mrs. Dalton, cordially ; “ I could not have hoped to experience to-day — or any day — such pleasure as you have just conferred upon me. To take a lad like that, without experience, or recommenda- tion ” “Pardon me,” broke in the other, waving his hand gravely ; “ do not say without recommendation, for since you have praised him, Mrs. Dalton, he has the very highest in my eyes.” “ You are very good to say so, I am sure ; but the fact re- mains, that out of pity for this poor lad’s position, you have offered ” “ Nay, madam, I must interrupt you once again,” said Mr. Holt, earnestly, lest I should take credit for a virtue I do not possess. That I pity the lad is true enough, but it is solely for your sake that I shall take him into my employment. You may consider the matter as arranged, and I am profoundly gratified at having had an opportunity of affording you pleasure.” “ I know nob how to express my thanks, Mr. Holt. If my husband w^ere here indeed, the fitting words would not be wanting; and when he comes to know what you have done, it will rejoice him, I am sure, almost as much as myself.” Her voice fell, her eyelids drooped as she thus spoke : the mention of the absent one had frozen the springs of her short- lived joy. Holt cursed his quondam friend in his heart, who had thus rendered his proposed task more difficult. A few moments ago, he thought he had “ seen his way ” to the subject he had in hand ; Mrs. Dalton’s manner had been genial, and even encou- raging ; and now it seemed that he had all the work to do over again. Nevertheless, desperation urged him on. “Your husband’s absence, dear Mrs. Dalton,” said he, “is regretted by no one, out of bis immediate family circle, so deeply as by myself ; indeed, no one has more cause to regret it ; for had the necessity for his departure not arisen — taking us all by surprise, and precluding all other matters, as it did — I should have ventured to put to him a question of the most vital interest to me.” Mrs. Dalton bowed; her face was a little paler, and her lips 244 FALLEN' FORTUNES, met together with unusual firmness, but she showed no other sign of emotion ; yet she knew what was coming quite well. “ Might I put the question of which I speak, to you^ madam ?” inquired he, after a little pause. “ Most certainly you may, Mr. Holt.’’ Her voice was firm, but she had grown paler than before, for the words Mrs. Carapden had spoken to her on board the steam-yacht, about this very man’s possible pretensions to her daughter’s hand, were ringing in her ears : “ I should as soon have imputed to her an attachment to the footman.” And now, in a few short weeks, so great a change had befallen her and hers that Mr. Holt was about to ask for her daughter’s hand, at the express instigation of Mrs. Campden herself. Her pride was wounded, and her heart was sore ; but, except where her affections were concerned, which sometimes overpowered her — as we have just seen in Jeff’s case — she had learned to repress her feelings. ‘‘ What I have to ask is a great favour, Mrs. Dalton ; in com- parison with which all that I could ever do for you fades into insignificance, and which will leave me your debtor for ever : it is, that you will give me permission to speak to your daughter, Kate, as her suitor. I am well aware of her superiority to myself in all respects ; of the social gulf between us, which lam the last to conceive has been in any way narrowed by reason of your recent misfortunes. I am only a plain, blunt man, who is devoted to her.” It was impossible to mistake these words — which were spoken with a certain homely eloquence that won the listener’s ear in spite of herself — for anything but what they were — the genuine utterance of the speaker’s heart. His cautious business man- ners, his Frenchified airs were gone, and were replaced by an intense anxiety and earnestness. The very existence of the man appeared, to all seeming, to be in abeyance; he neither moved nor breathed as he waited for his companion’s reply. “ I must needs say, Mr. Holt,” answered she, with delibera- tion, “ that your question gives me great embarrassment. Its suddenness — to say nothing further — has taken me utterly by surprise. I am fully conscious, believe me, of the honour you have done my daughter in making this application. The gulf you speak of might well be considered — and doubtless is so — upon your side rather than hers ; for you are rich, and she is penniless ; but — but I have no authority to grant your request. When my husband returns, it will be surely time enough to MR. HOLT DEPARTS WITH PLYIHG COLOURS. 24S apply to him for the permission you demand. In his absence, I must decline — with heartfelt thanks to you, Mr. Holt — to take any action in this matter.” “ And do 1 understand, madam, that you also forbid me to apply to your daughter herself — to hear from her own lips whether I may look for hope or not ? ” “ No, Mr. Holt ; I have no more authority to forbid than to encourage you in this matter. My daughter is old enough to know her own mind. At the same time, I would venture to suggest, that a time like the present, when she has been deprived of her natural adviser, as well as smitten by sore misfortune, is scarcely one suited for a proposal of marriage. If you have that genuine regard for her (and I do not doubt it) of which you have spoken, I thiuk it should lead you to spare her, at a time like this, a declaration which I feel sure would be a source of pain.” On account of its inopportuneness ? ” put in the other, eagerly. “ I don’t say that, Mr. Holt ; pray do not force me to express an opinion that may sound harsh or uncivil. I am merely pleading for Kate, that you should uot — forgive me for the word — importune her upon this matter for the present.” It was now Mr. Holt’s turn to bow and not to speak. His face exhibited a chagrin, and yet a resignation that went to Mrs. Dalton’s heart ; she never thought (as she afterwards said) she could have felt so keen a pity for the disappointment of such a man. “ I am very sorry for you, Mr. Holt,” said she, “ very sorry and he knew that, so far as she was concerned, her words were words of doom. CHAPTER XXIX. MR. HOLT DEPARTS WITH FLYING COLOURS. Holt did not know the precise moment at which Mrs. Dalton had quitted him ; a mist seemed to come over his eyes at her last words, and the next sound he had any clear cognisance of was a subdued clatter of forks and dishes. He was standing with his face to the mantelpiece, on which rested his elbows, and with his back to the table, from which the servants were removing the luncheon things. He knew not how long he had been in his present position, or how he had assumed it. He ALLEN FORTUNES. 246 was perfectly aware, however, of what had happened: that he had proposed for Kate to her mother, and that that lady had referred him to her husband — in other words, had rejected him. He had good reasons of his own for knowing that if Dalton were to be asked the same question, the answer would be a very unmistakable “ No.” To be sure there was still Kate herself, to whom he had not been absolutely forbidden to apply ; but that was an experiment from which he shrank — a last hope, to which he must be hard driven indeed before he resorted to it ; for he felt her answer would be final. The present, as her mother had said, was an inopportune time to speak to her, and, what con- cerned him more, it was an unfavourable time. “You have only to wait,” Mrs. Campden had said, or as much as said, “ until she begins to feel the discomforts of poverty, and then your chance will be improved.” Indeed, she thought it a cer- tainty. But could he wait ? There was the rub. Could he afford to wait ? Being now alone, he drew his pocket-book out, and from it a slip concerning some shipping intelligence, on which he pondered with anxious care. “ The quickest ship on the line,” he murmured ; “ curse him ! ” Then he studied the almanac. “ There is not a day to lose ; there is not an hour. The pursuit is madness ; I will give her up.” As he said so the soft craunch of gravel came from the sweep without, and an open carriage drove by the window : the three girls had come home from Sanbeck. He caught a glance of Kate, as she looked up with a cheerful smile towards her mother’s room ; her sun-bright hair, her pale, expressive fea- tures, and her gentle, reassuring eyes, made up a picture exceedingly beautiful ; it passed in a moment, as though an angel had looked out from heaven, and then withdrawn herself into the impenetrable blue. But he knew that it was reality, and that his adored one was at the hall-door, within a few feet of him. He did not stir, however, but stood as if spellbound, listening to the ring at the bell, the footman letting down the steps, and all the usual sounds of arrival. These died away, and were presently succeeded by other sounds : a thumping of some object on the encaustic tiles that composed the floor of the hall ; a rapid flutter of female garments, and some hurried talk. Then the door opened, and revealed Mr. Greoffrey Derwent with a carpet-bag in one hand, and dragging a huge portmanteau with the other; behind him came Kate Dalton, entreating, command- ing, cajoling. Her colour, already high, rose at the sight of Holt. JUR. /JOLT DEPARTS WIT/I FLYING COLOURS. 247 “ I did not know you were here, Mr. Holt,’’ said, she, eagerly ; but I am glad of it. Do speak to Jeff. Something has hap- pened between him and Mrs. Campden — I don’t know what — and he is quitting the house in this fashion.” “ I don’t want Mr. Holt’s opinion upon the subject,” said Jeff, vehemently; “nor any man’s opinion. I will not stay another night under this roof.” “ But why carry all that luggage about with you, Mr. Der- went ? ” asked Holt, smiling. “ Because I don’t wish to be indebted to anyone belonging to* Mrs. Campden for the smallest service. I shall leave them here, behind the door ; and go myself to Bleabarrow for the fly, which will take them away.” “ And then p ” inquired Mr. Holt, with an amused air. “Yes, indeed; that is what' I have been telling him, Mr. Holt,” broke in Kate, earnestly. “What is he to do in London, without money, without friends ? He will starve to death.” “ He will have to apply for out-door relief, at all events,” said Mr. Holt in corroboration. “ What is that to you ? That is my look-out,” answered JeflP, turning flercely upon the last speaker. “You heard what that woman said to me at lunch : would you not think it better to starve than to stay here, if she had spoken so to you ? ” I should certainly not have stayed here, in that case,” said Mr. Holt, quietly. “ There, you hear him ! ” cried Jeff, triumphantly : “ even Mr. Holt would not have stayed.” “ Pray do not encourage Jeff in his obstinacy,” pleaded Kate, with tear-dimmed eyes. “ You know the world, and should give Tiim better advice.” “My advice. Miss Dalton, is that he should go at once,” answered Holt, coolly ; and with me. Your mother and I were talking the matter over ; and we agreed, if Mr. Derwent himself approved of the plan, that I should take him into my office upon trial ; after a month or two he wmuld be able to judge if stock- broking suited him.” “Oh, Mr. Holt, how good of you! Is this really true?” ejaculated Kate. “ I don’t understand,” hesitated. Jeff ; “ of course it is most kind of Mr. Holt ; but ” “ Well, just run up to Mrs. Dalton, my lad ; it was she who proposed the matter, and who will be therefore in the best posi' 248 FALLEN FORTUNES. lion to explain it to you. I suppose you would have wished her good-bye in any case.” Jeff coloured and hung his head ; his indignation had indeed been such as to induce him to leave Riverside without bidding farewell to anybody. ‘‘ Yes, I will do that,” he said, after a little hesitation, due, doubtless, to the fear of meeting his hostess upon the way — not that he was afraid of her, but of himself. Thus, by the most unlooked-for accident, Mr. Holt found himself alone with Kate. He was by far the more embarrassed of the two, and showed it by his silence ; he that had been so glib in the presence of a third person had now not a word to say for himself. Kate, on the contrary, poured out sentence after sentence, without much thought of anything except that she must not give her companion the opportunity of saying anything to her save in the way of reply. It was “ so kind ” in him, “ so thoughtful,” and “ so oppor- tune ” to think of taking Jeff into his employment ; she was sure he would find him ‘‘ so intelligent ” and “so nice.” “ To tell you the truth, Miss Dalton,” said Holt, frankly, “ I donT much care how the young gentleman suits me, though I shall do my best to make things suit him.” “ That is still more kind of you,” answered she, “ for Jeff has no friends, except Mr. Campden and ourselves, who are, alas ! powerless to help him.” “ Kay, Miss Dalton, don’t say so : you are all-powerful. Your wish, at all events, is my law in this matter — and, indeed, in all matters, if you would only let me serve you.” “ You are very good, I’m sure.” He remembered that those were the very words her father had used, and the very tone, when he had declined his assistance. “ I am not at all good. Miss Dalton,” answered he bitterly ; “ except in so far as 1 am devoted to your interests. Should the time come to prove it, pray remember that.” She had grown suddenly very pale, and was listening eagerly, not to him, but for Jeff’s return. As his quick step was heard in the hall, the girl drew a sigh of relief. Holt perceived all this ; but still he had spoken to her in a significant if not a tender fashion, and had not been rebuked. He felt another man, and a far happier one than he had been an hour ago. A gleam of hope illumined the dark path of his future, though it was very faint — so faint, that he also hailed Jeff’s coming. It had at least precluded her from replying to his last speech as she had replied to the preceding one. He had bidden her remember to MR, HOLT DEPARTS WITH FLYING COLOURS. 249 apply to him if she needed aid, and she had not refused to do so. Still, “ not to refuse was far different from “ to accept.^^ “Well, Mr. Derwent,” said he, assuming a cheerful air, “ was I not right ? Does not Mrs. Dalton endorse your acceptance of my offer ? You must learn to employ these business terms, you know ; ” and he smiled pleasantly enough. “ I have no choice,” answered the boy, naively. Then con- scious that the words were ungracious, he added precipitately : “But if I had, I should always have felt grateful to you, Mr. Holt, for a proposal which, though I know it is not made upon my own account, is certainly generous and unselfish ; for I am afraid — at first, at all events — that I shall be of very little ser- vice to you. And now, please, I would rather be off. I will stay at the Golden Cross in London, where I used to put up on my way from school, till you choose to send for me.” “ Oh, Jeff ! don’t go away like that ! ” cried Kate, imploringly. “ I must, Kitty. Mr. Holt himself said I was right to go.” “ Yes ; but not this minute, my lad. That will only make a disturbance in the house, and distress others besides your hostess, which I am sure you do not wish to do. There is the postman s horn. Kow, why should I not have a letter of im- portance that demands my presence in town to-morrow morning ? Then you and I can start to-night.” “ I am afraid that would be hurrying you away,” hesitated Kate ; “ but still, if you would ” “ You would be better pleased. Miss Dalton,” interrupted Holt, with a touch of bitterness : “ that settles the matter. We must be off by the 6.30 train, my lad ; so I will go and put my traps together.” He did not wait for thanks from either of them, but repaired at once to his ov/n room. He ran up stairs three steps at a time, for he felt like a young man. By a great piece of good fortune he had contrived to lay Kate Dalton under an obligation, and had made his first step with her in the way of friendship, familiarity, confidence. As to the per contra side of the account, his engagement of Geoffrey Derwent, it weighed but as a feather’s weight in the balance. Indeed, he was by no means certain that it might not be placed in the same scale. If he found Derwent able to do his routine work, it might even be a good stroke of business. Of course, he would take care to treat the lad well and handsomely ; but, indeed, he intended to make him something else than a mere clerk. He had long been of opinion that his “ manager,” Brand, w^as too clever by half, and 250 FALLEN FORTUNES. had resolved to take Ihe first opportunity of parting company with him. The same objection, he reflected with a contemptuous smile, would certainly not apply to Jeff. There was not one member of the party at Riverside who was not grateful to Mr. Holt that evening. By persuading Geoffrey Derwent to avoid a public scandal — which his flight, as origi- nally intended, would certainly have caused — he had done good service to Mrs. Campden, of whom the lad was now persuaded to take leave, though in a very stiff and formal manner. The Dal- tons were sincerely obliged to him on Jeff’s account; and ‘‘ Uncle George,” whose conscience reproached him for his pusillanimity in that matter, still more so. Moreover, as a host relieved of an incubus, Mr. Campden blessed his guest for taking himself off. His departure did not long precede that of those to whom he was originally indebted for his invitation, though for the future he had the assurance of its coming — and that soon — from the fountain-head, namely, the hostess herself. On the third day afterwards, the Daltons took up their residence at the Hook in Sanbeck. Before they left, Mrs. Dalton received a farewell letter from her husband, written from on board the Flamhorough Head. Knowing what we do of- him, we can pretty well imagine its contents : but amid all the love and pathos of his parting words — he made no mention of his remorse, since he knew it would distress her — there was a sentence or two of genuine rebuke. “ When I asked to be shown my berth — which, as I had been informed, I was to share with ‘ a commercial gentleman,’ bound for Rio — to ray great surprise I was introduced to a first-class cabin. Some one had called, they told me, at the London office, ^ and paid the diflerence for the exchange. Of course I know who sent him, and why you were so particular to ask me about the agent’s address. My darling, to think that you should have robbed yourself just now to supply me with a mere luxury, goes to my heart. How could yon, could you do it ? ” Yet what he deemed — and justly — to be self-sacrifice was, in one respect, an act of selfishness. Hothing the money — or ten times the sum — could have brought her would have given Mrs. Dalton half the satisfaction she derived from the reflection, that, so far at least as his physical needs were concerned “ dearest John ” would be made comfortable upon his voyage. She was herself bound upon a longer journey far than his (as she was well convinced), and one with more uncertain issues; but her chief thought and care were still, as they had ever been, for him. REALITIES. 251 CHAPTER XXX. REALITIES. It is not to be supposed that the Daltons, being so well liked a family as they were, were neglected by their friends because misfortune had befallen them. Human nature is not quite so base as some philosophers would have us believe, though there »re a great many selfish persons in the world, and especially (I am afraid I must say) in good society. John Dalton had been right in his idea that he was rather an obstacle to the good-will of others towards his belongings, and that if he were dead they would find many offers of assistance that were almost of necessity withheld while he was alive. Even his departure for Brazil brought some of these into blossom — uay, into solid fruit, if only Mrs. Dalton had cared to pluck it. One good lady would even have taken Kate off her hands — she had been always “ so fond ” of Kate — for good and all ; though it must be owned that her proposition was a little vague. Another would have been glad to offer Mrs. Dalton and both daughters a home, “ while they looked about them for a suitable residence.’’ Con- dolences and sympathetic inquiries had long been rained in showers upon this unfortunate lady ; so that not the most cynical could have described her as forgotten. But the fact is, admitting that there is any number of mean and miserly people in the world, who will weep for their friends in need, pray for them, sympathise with them, and, in brief, go to any length short of assisting them, it is also difficult — it must be confessed — to afford assistance such as would be acceptable. I would on no account be supposed to have any of that “enthusiasm of humanity ” which all the wise agree is a sign of the feeblest in- telligence ; I know how easy it is for folks to condole with their friends upon the loss of their relatives, and how difficult, because dangerous and compromising, they find it to do so on the loss of their goods ; but it must be acknowledged withal, that hard as we may find it in this world to help ourselves, it is even harder to help others who are helpless. People are not more malleable, do not fit into any shaped groove that may be offered to them, the more easily because they have become poor. Mrs. Dalton had two fixed ideas, in adhering to which she was resolute, and which, without doubt, rendered their case very impracticable — namely (1), that she would not be separated from her girls ; 2$2 1^ ALLEN FORTUNES. and (2), that they should have a home of their own, however humble. Sorrow, she knew, is doubly grievous when it has to be borne w^ith a forced smile, as it needs must be when we are guests in the house of a friend. Otherwise, when Lady Skipton wrote to invite Kate, Mrs. Campden was strenuous in urging that her offer should be accepted : “It would give the poor girl a chance once more,” in the way of suitors ; and perhaps she added also to herself, “ and how convenient it would be for Mr. Holt in particular to prosecute his attentions.” These kindnesses, these offers, these well-meant attentions of all sorts, were, however, all laid before her daughters by Mrs. Dalton, not so much that each should have a voice in their acceptance or rejection — for she well knew what their replies would be beforehand — as that they should u nderstand their own position with respect to others. Even when these communica- tions were unpleasant, as they sometimes were, she did not withhold them from their eyes. It was well that they should look the world in the face, since the time was coming when there would be none to disguise from them its stern realities — when the hand should be powerless that had secretly warded off from them its sharpest buffets, and the voice that had interpreted its tones so tenderly for their sakes, should be stilled for ever. One little indulgence Mrs. Dalton did permit herself — she re- solved that 'i’ony should not be sent to school for another half- year : he was still young for Eton : his education under Jenny^s auspices was going on quite satisfactorily ; he was a diligent little fellow, and did not require to be nailed to his work, &c. All which excellent reasons were contained in one still greater, though she never owned it to herself : “ I cannot spare the boy ; let us all be together for a while, and while we may.” Instead of saying, “ This is weakness, Edith,” as might have been expected from so uncompromising and well-principled a person as Mrs. Campden, that lady fully approved of this ar- rangement ; and would not, perhaps have murmured if it had been decided not to send the boy to school at all. As for Tony himself, the prospect of the new life at Sanbeck almost made up for the postponement of his Eton joys. LADY SKIPTON'S CHARITY. 253 CHAPTER XXXI. LADY SKIPTON’S CHARITY. Mr. Campden was sorry to lose his guests, yet not altogether so, so far as he himself was concerned. They had already begun to be the cause of quarrel between himself and his wife. He was inclined to be kinder to them in his manner, because of their misfortunes; and this his Julia stigmatised as “weak- ness,” and even as cruelty to those he pitied — they would only miss everything afterwards the more, she said, from the sense of contrast ; and she took care not to err in this way herself. When the little family were all in the Riverside barouche together on their way to their new home, Tony put this ques- tion to his mamma, preceded, after the fashion of his age, by an affirmation : “ I am precious glad we are going to Sanbeck. What has made Mrs. Campden so cross with us all since dear papa went away ? ” Kate and Jenny exchanged a rapid glance. “ Even Tony has remarked it, you see,” said the latter, in French. She had spoken of the matter to her sister with vehe- ment indignation, which Kate had endeavoured to mitigate : like her mother, she always strove to find excuses for people. “ Cross, Tony ? ” answered Mrs. Dalton, quietly. “ I am sure I didnT know she had been cross. Perhaps you were troublesome.” She thought it best to ignore the general charge of crossness altogether. “ Oh no, I wasn’t, mamma. Only she used to call me ‘ her sweet boy,’ and now she says, ‘ you little nuisance.’ ” Nobody answered this imputation, since it was impossible to refute it. Only Jenny laughed — a little bitter laugh. She had coldly touched her hostess’s lips without a word, after her mother and sister had expressed their thanks for Mts. Camp- den’s hospitality, though she had kissed Mary tenderly, and thrown her slender arms about Uncle George, and bidden him quite an extravagant adieu. “ I wish Jenny was not quite so ^ thorough,’ ” Kate had sighed to herself ; “ though one loves her all the better for it.” Mrs. Dalton, too, had dropped a tear in secret over that independent spirit of her second daughter, which under present circumstances could not but be detrimental to the poor girl. But Jenny neither sighed nor wept. She had an honest con- 254 FALLEN FORTUNES. tempt for all scoundrels, as her favourite Carlyle would have expressed it, and in her indignation against them was apt, like himself, to spare neither sex nor age, nor even social position in the county. “ That woman is a mean wretch,’^ was her private comment upon Tony’s hill of indictment against his hostess. The people in Bleabarrow acknowledged their presence civilly as they passed through the little town — the young, with pulls at their forelocks, or rapid courtesies ; the elders, with grave obeisances, as they stood at their shop- doors. “ They little think we have only one hundred and fifty pounds a year,” thought Jenny. This was a mistake of hers, for the bows were given to them as occupants of the carriage. To the British provincial eye, a fine equipage is little inferior in dignity to the Ark amoug the Hebrews. Indeed, even in the metropolis, it must liave something sacred, or at least curiously significant, as it is often sent empty to “ represent ” Eoyalty itself at the obsequies of our great men. In Sanbeck, as usual, the barouche created a still greater sensation. It was followed up on this occasion by dbfowrgon, con- taining the luggage. When they had deposited their burden and driven away, “ There go our last pomps and vanities,” said Jenny, philosophically. ‘‘ How for the crust and the cress.” It was a relief to all of them to find themselves under their own roof. Even Lucy — about whom they had naturally some misgivings — expressed herself as agreeably disappointed, and pronounced the clipped yews upon the little terrace which represented winged dragons, “ ’eavenly,” She showed much affability to Margate, as the late Jonathan Landell’s house- keeper was called (but probably not after the fashionable watering- place), and spoke of her eulogistically as ‘‘quite a carac/der. She was, in fact, a great curiosity, being an honest, simple old woman, who had done her duty in the world for sixty years, to the best of her ability. If she had ever possessed the vanity of her sex, it had long departed ; but she did think that there was no one in Derbyshire who could in its season make a better black pudding than herself ; and she had just cause for her confidence. The only trial she ever caused her “ young ladies ” was when she would proudly set this delicacy before them as a “ surprise,” as the cookery-books say, and then wait to see them eat it. Tony was the only one who appreciated it, and yet they would not have wounded old Margate’s pride for worlds by leaving it on their plates. Black puddings added LADY SI^IFTON^S CHARITY, 255 another terror to winter at Sanbeck, for they came in with the cold, as fruit does with the warm weather. Margate’s familiar and assistant, Nancy, was a stout yillage lass, the very incarna- tion of good-nature, but with no particular beauty to boast of, save the uuusual one (for persons in her position) of a set of dazzlingly white teeth — a very fortunate circumstance, since it was her custom to keep her mouth wide open. “ I do think, Kitty, we shall be happy here,” was the verdict passed by Jenny upon the Nook and its belongings, on the night of their arrival. “If only it suits dear mamma,” faltered Kitty. Jenny had equally thought of that, you may be sure, and both were well aware that it was not a question of “ suiting ; ” Mrs. Dalton would have been content with far inferior lodgment and ruder fare. But there was something underneath the cheer^ fullness of her face, and which belied it, that both her daughters read. She had exhibited no curiosity about the house, though she had striven to appear interested in what they told her of it ; her only solicitude had been expressed concerning the post —as to what time the letters arrived in Sanbeck. It was very improbable, indeed, that any communication should be received from her husband for some time to come ; yet every morning, when the horn was heard — it was near noon- day generally — her eyes would light up with expectancy, and her pale face flush, till the postman had passed the house. Jenny, too, had her anxieties, it seemed, in this respect, for on the third day after their arrival she walked out alone to meet the post- man. There was only one letter for the Nook, and that was for her. It was evidently the one she had expected, and she took it eagerly from the man’s hand. It was an answer to one she had written to Lady Skipton, after much consideration. Folks had often praised her lace work, telling her that nothing equal to it was to be got at the shops ; that it was worth six guineas a yard at the very least, &c. &c. So she had resolved to utilise her gift of lace-making for the benefit of her belong- ings. Under other circumstances, she would have applied to Mrs. Campden to effect this ; but she felt too angry with that lady to ask any favour of her, however small. So she had written to Lady Skipton, an old friend of her mother’s, and w^ho had always been kindly disposed towards herself, enclosing a yard of her lace, as a specimen, and begging her to find out at what price such work could really be disposed of. If the reply was satisfactory, and such as she had always been led to expect, so FALLEN FORTUNES. 256 far from being a burden to her family in their altered position, she could easily double their present income. Instead of return- ing home, where she would be subject to interrogatories, she entered a labourer’s cottage, where the auld wife placed a chair for her by the fire, to read the letter. The poor girl would have much preferred to do so in the open air ; but the unusual exer- tion of walking a few yards alone had already fatigued her, and her white face had appealed to the old dame’s hospitality. “ Now read your note, young leddie, and dinna mind me,” said she, and then had busied herself about her household work as usual. The contents of the envelope felt thicker than ordinary, and when Jenny opened it, and found a five- pound note within the folds of the letter, she gave a little cry of joy. It was doubtless the price of the yard of lace which Lady Skipton had sold for her in Regent Street or Bond Street, and perhaps she had sent orders for ever so much more. Everyone who has looked upon the first money made by their own exertions will understand something of the pleasure which Jenny experienced at this spectacle ; but in her case the joy was enhanced tenfold by the peculiar circumstances of her position. Instead of life- long dependence upon others, here was independence for herself and for them. Ye will have good news, missie, I reckon ? ” said the good- wife, as she saw the light leap into her young guest’s eyes. Jenny did not answer, for she was already deep in her lady- ship’s letter, if depth could be obtained in anything so shallow. It was a long rambling rhapsody upon the Dalton’s troubles, dotted with “ so sorry” and ‘‘no one out of my own family so dear,” and not a word about the lace, except in the postscript, which ran thus : “ As to your beautiful work, dear Jenny, we all admire it above measure ; but you know an amateur can never compete with these professionals ; one can hardly go asking tradespeople w’hat they will give for the production of a young lady — one’s own personal friend, too — and I am sure it could only result in disappointment ; you might work your fingers to the bone, and only gain a few shillings. But if you will let me be the purchaser — just for this once, at all events — I shall be so pleased. I have no doubt you will find a use for the payment which I enclose herewith.” Jenny’s heart did not sink ; it was not of the composition that does so, yet it turned heavy and cold. “ They are all alike,” she murmured, bitterly ; “all base and cruel alike. This woman could not even ask a question for me because of her false pride.” LADY SKIFTON^S CHARITY 257 She folded the bank-note up very small, and gazed wistfully into the fire. “ That is where I should like to put it,” she went on ; “ only she would never believe it.” Then she rose and thanked the woman of the house for her hospitality. “ Lor', missie ! don’t speak of it. We would all do a deal more for ye than that.” “ Why ? ” inquired Jenny, brusquely. “ Because the doctor has told us all about ye, and whose was the hand that has given many a bit and drop to them as needed it in these parts. You’re poor yourselves, I hear, now, missie, but it will nae be for long ; the blessing of the poor is on ye, and ye will thrive yet.” The woman, a hale and hearty one, though old, spoke with earnest energy. “ Thank you, dame,” said Jenny, simply, and she felt genuine gratitude. The other’s words had put a strange confidence into her ; it was a comfort too, to feel that she had confided to no one her intention of writing to Lady Skipton. No one could remonstrate against her returning that five-pound note to her ladyship by the next post. Money in some cases is said to “ burn in the pocket ; ” but no spendthrift ever felt such a desire to get rid of a bank-note as now burned in Jenny’s heart. She did not want five pounds for what was only worth a few shillings. Her ladyship need not have been so afraid of having to buy more lace at that fancy price. “ Just for this once, at all events,” was a phrase of quite unnecessary precaution ; but it had wounded its recipient to the quick. “ Work her fingers to the bone.” Yes ; she would do that, and more, before she ever appealed to that woman for assistance again, or indeed to anyone. She had another string to her bow, which did not depend upon friends (so called) at all, and she now regretted she had not triedit first. If that failed — God help her I Then she smiled to herself to think of the absurdity of that last reflection ; as though we should only trust in God when all other means fail. Such a phrase was surely as ridiculous as Mrs. Campden’s “ H.F.s,” which she was so careful to introduce in her ordinary correspondence. How angry poor Jefi* made her once by telling that story of the old lady who would come to tea on Wednesday, D.Y., but on Thursday at all events.” By the time Jenny got home — it took her a long time to walk even those few yards — she was quite herself again. The days rolled on at the Nook for Jenny faster than for the rest ; she was used to solitariness, and never tired of reading, and Mr. Landell’s library gave her endless occupation in that S FALLEN FORTUNES, 258 way ; almost all the books, though old, were new to her, and some of them very strange and curious. Tales of witchcraft, fulfilments of dreams, treatises upon simples, local superstitions, habits of birds and beasts — the quaintest and most old-fashioned ideas imaginable, whereof one in twenty were really noteworthy, and through desuetude, had become novel. Tony, too, after he had done his lessons with her, found employment and amuse- ment enough in the valley ; but to Mrs. Dalton and Kate the time hung heavy on hand. Mrs. Campden and Mary drove over to the Kook occasionally ; at first with laudable frequency ; then less and less often ; sometimes Mary came alone, and was always kind. But her kindness was of quite another sort than in the old days when Kate had been her “ dearest friend.^^ There was nothing to complain of in Mary — nor did Kate ever breathe a word of complaint against her — but she had evidently overrated the strength of her own attachment. Her visits became briefer as well as rarer, being cut short by “pressing engagements ’’ here and there, such as in the old days would not have weighed with her a feather. The doctor, indeed, called every day, but, unhappily, not as a mere visitor ; Mrs. Dalton, though she kept “ up and about,” was seriously indisposed, and gave him cause for much secret anxiety. “ My medicines,” he frankly told her daughters, “can do your mother little good ; the true remedy for her would be a letter from your father.” But none such arrived, although weeks had gone by since Dalton’s departure. The postman brought them few letters in- deed, now, from anybody ; though there had been one or two from Jeff, speaking favourably upon the whole of his employer, and very cheerfully of his own position and prospects. He seemed to be in quite a responsible post — something altogether above that of a clerk. Indeed, there was nobody over him at all except Mr. Holt himself ; and yet he was by no means over- worked. “ For all which, I know,” wrote Jeff, “ I have to thank dear Mrs. Dalton.” His immediate correspondent was Jenny, who, in return for his own confidences, wrote him a pretty exact account of how matters went on at Sanbeck ; all which she well knew would have an interest for him. “ If we could only hear from papa, and mamma were better,” wrote she, “ we should not have much to complain of. Could you find out how long a letter ought to be coming from Bio ? for, of course, papa would be sure to send us one by the first mail after his arrival. Would there not EVIL TIDINGS, 259 also be a cbance of tbe Flamborough Head^s meeting a ship coming home, and sending letters by it ? We are all so ignorant here, and, alas, so helpless.’’ To this Jeff wrote back a cheerful reply, stating in general terms that the arrival of the mails was more or less variable, and that the wind had been contrary ; but added a private slip for Jenny’s eyes. “ Don’t breathe a word of it to your mother, but the Brazil mail arrived some days ago ; Mr. Dalton could not, therefore, have reached Bio when it left. Indeed, the F.H, was mentioned at Lloyd’s yesterday as overdue. This is likely enough with these west winds, and there is really no cause for anxiety as yet.” “ As yeV^ Those two little words sent a stab to Jenny’s heart. CHAPTER XXXII. EVIL TIDINGS. Jenny said nothing of the news she had got from Jeff, even to Kate. It was quite right of Jeff to tell her : she would have re- sented it had he not done so ; but it was also right in her not to tell her sister. That one of the family should know it — and be miserable accordingly — was sufficient. What Kate would have said, had she known that Jenny, the weakest of them, was bear- ing this burden all alone, was another matter. There had been a time when Kate had been Jeff’s confidante, and not Jenny; but of late he had changed in this respect. His letters were full of Kate, as Jenny noticed, with many a quiet smile, but not addressed to her. “He is quite wise,” reflected the recipient of these missives, “ or that man might be tempted to open them.” This invalid young lady was certainly rather strong in her likes and dislikes. She thought Uncle George “an old dear,” and the doctor “perfection;” but she had no hesitation in pro- nouncing (to herself of course) Mrs. Campdenas “ base;” Mary as “ weak,” and “ undependable ; ” and Mr. Holt as “ a horror.” She would never forgive his having aspired to her sister’s hand, or Mrs. Campden for “ egging him on ” to do it (as she guessed), under pretence, too, of its being for the benefit of the family, and especially of herself. She even suspected Holt of being the cause of her father’s ruin. A fortnight had passed by since she had been told that there was “ no cause for anxiety as yet ; ” and she could see that her mother was growing very anxious. In default of letters, Mrs, 26 o FALLEN FORTUNES. Dalton read the newspaper every morning with avidity — that is the two half columns of it which referred to “ Shipping Intelli- gence ” and “the Mails.” This paper, which arrived at River- side in the afternoon, was forwarded to them by post next day with commendable regularity. “It is so kind of Julia,” said Mrs. Dalton, speaking of this to the doctor, “and so thoughtful.” “Yes,” added Jenny, drily, “and so troublesome. Marks” (the butler) “ directs it himself, and puts it in the bag.” One morning, The Morning Ghronicle came instead of The Times i which the girls could see had quite a depressing effect upon their mother. The reports about the shipping, she com- plained, were not so full. “ Never mind, mamma,” said Kitty ; “ Tony shall go over the hill after dinner, and fetch The Times, and take a line from Jenny to Marks to tell him to be more careful in future : the old fellow is devoted to her interests.” But before Tony’s lessons were over, Mr. Carapden himself arrived on horseback ; he had come once or twice before, but always hitherto with his wife or daughter. “ This is a great compliment, Mr. Campden,” said Mrs. Dalton, gratefully, “ that you should come riding over in this way, when we know you hate riding.” “ I hope I should ride much farther than this, or walk either, my dear, to oblige • you,^^ was the reply, given with unusual earnestness. He had never called her “ my dear ” before. “ I always thought you were a duck. Uncle George,” said Kate. “ I always said you were,” said Jenny ; “I had the courage of my opinion.” “ What is it you want of me, girls ? ” inquired Mr. Campden, but his voice was mechanical, and unaccompanied by the usual sly smile. “Well, I want The Times newspaper,” said Mrs. Dalton. “ I frankly tell you. Uncle George, I hoped you were come to repair a mistake that was made this morning ; The Morning Ghronicle was sent instead.” “ Dear me ! ” said Mr. Campden ; “how stupid of them. The fact is, we have such a lot of papers, and they get laid about so. But it shall not happen again.” “ There was nothing in The Times about — about Brazil or the Rio mail, Uncle George, was there ? ” inquired Mrs. Dalton. “ Nothing, nothing, my dear,” answered Mr. Campden, turning EVIL TIDINGS, 261 very red. I’m going up to the mere, to see about some damage that has happened to the keeper’s cottage from the wind.” “ Ay,” said Mrs. Dalton, with a shudder, “ what winds there have been lately ! ” “ They have been partial, however — very partial,” continued Mr. Campden; “nothing seems to have suffered in the south. What do you say to a little walk to the lake-side, Kate ? If you will be my companion, I will put up the mare here, and go on foot.” To this Kate gladly agreed ; and Tony looked up eagerly from his book with, “ May I come too, Uncle George ? ” “ Well, no, my boy,” returned Mr. Campden, gravely ; “ it would be an interruption to your lessons ; and just now it is expedient that you should buckle to.” A faint flush came into Mrs. Dalton’s face ; it was the first time that Mr. Campden had alluded — even thus indirectly — to the changed circumstances of the family. “That is quite right,” said she, quietly. “But you can go down for a minute, Tony, and see that Uncle George’s horse is put in the stable, and some corn given to it.” “ Oh, never mind the corn,” said Mr. Campden, hastily ; and then he got so red again that Jenny became red too, from sheer sympathy with his embarrassment. Fortunately, at that mo- ment, Kitty, who had left the room, re-entered it, equipped for her walk, giving the squire an opportunity of complimenting her upon the rapidity of her toilet ; and after a few commonplaces, they took their departure. Over the bridge and past the churchyard, they walked in , silence, or only returned the greetings of the villagers ; but as soon as they got clear of the hamlet, Mr. Campden addressed his companion with an unaccustomed tenderness and gravity. “ Kitty, my dear, you are a brave girl, I know ; but I have got something to tell you that will try your courage.” ' “ Not about papa. Uncle George ? ” cried she, with sudden vehemence. “ Oh, don’t say there is bad news about papa ! ” “ Well, my darling, it may not be bad news at all ; there may be really nothing in it ; but it does concern your father.” I She did not answer, but he felt the arm within his own grow very heavy. \ “ That is right, dear ; lean on me : whatever happens, lean on me,” said Uncle George, encouragingly. “You see, although there may have been many causes to retard the ship in which your father sailed — the prevalent wind has been against it, for 262 FALLEN FORTUNES, one thing, and the wind makes a difference even to a steamer — it is, without doubt, overdue. That circumstance gives us anxiety, of course, and causes us to feel alarmed, where perhaps there is no reason for alarm.’’ “Yes, yes. But what has happened, Uncle George? I am sure something has happened.” “ No, no ; we are not sure of that, thank goodness. We can still hope for the best. But a vessel has come into Liverpool that has fallen in with a lot of wreck — not of the ship, not of the s/wp, Kitty. Here ; sit down on the hill-side. Good heaven, she will catch her death of cold ! ” cried Mr. Campden, helplessly. (“ What the deuce shall I do with her ? ” added the squire pri- vately, who was one of the clumsiest as well as the most amiable of men.) “ Never mind we — I am better now,” said Kitty, slowly. “ You said it was not the wreck of the ship ? ” “Nor was it, my dear girl. It was only a bit of a boat be- longing to the ship ; the cutter, I think, they call it. You have seen how boats are swung upon deck, and how easy it must be for a big wave to sweep them off into the sea. That is what has probably happened in this case. The ship has lost a boat or two — that’s all.” “ But how did they know the cutter belonged to papa’s ship ? “ Because it had. Flamborough Head painted on the stern. There may be nothing in it ; but that’s why we didn’t send the paper that had the paragraph in it on to the Nook.” “ How good and thoughtful you are for us, Uncle George ! ” said Kitty, who had risen to her feet, and was now walking slowly on. “ Well, we must not put that item down to our own credit, Kitty. We might have taken the precaution or not. Perhaps we should have done so, had the paragraph caught our eyes ; but it might have escaped them. I am bound to say I think it was very considerate in Mr. Holt to telegraph and draw our atten- tion to it. ‘ Send on The Chronicle to Sanbeck,’ he wired ; ‘ the bad news is not in that.’ He is a sharp fellow, there is no doubt ; and I begin to think he is a kind fellow.” “ It was very kind of him to telegraph,” answered Kitty, in a low tone. “ Yes. Not a man in a thousand, as my wife says, would have thought of such a thing ; and it shows the very strong interest he takes in you all. I don’t think your father gave him quite credit for a good heart.” EVIL TIDINGS. 263 Kitty did not reply to this ; and they walked on in silence for a while. “ I think, my dear, yon are beginning to tire,” said Mr. Campden, presently ; it is ill walking npon bad news.” “But we are not at the mere yet. Uncle George.” “ Oh, never mind the mere,” answered the other, turning about towards home; “ that was only my excuse for getting a walk with you alone. I thought it right that one* member of your family at least should know what had happened.” “ And when shall we know more, Uncle George ? ” That is impossible to say, my dear. I hope the next Brazil mail may bring good tidings. Otherwise — otherwise there will, no doubt, be grave cause for anxiety. You must try and hide your feelings from your mother, Kitty dear.” “Oh yes. Uncle George; nobody shall see that I have her — her — heard anything ; ” and she made a strenuous effort — which almost succeeded — to stifle a sob. “ Yes, yes ; you are a brave girl, and a clever one too. Now, as for me, I can never hide anything from Julia — I wish to heaven I could, sometimes! And just now, in your dear mother’s presence, I felt like — I don’t know what — a discon- certed pickpocket. It was the worst job I have had to do for many a day. She seemed to look through and through me, poor dear ; as much as to say, ‘ How can you deceive me, and keep things back like this. Uncle George ! ’ I can’t see her again, Kitty ; 1 dare not. But if there is good news to bring. I’ll bring it to her, at the best pace the mare can go. You must make some excuse for me to your mother. Say my wife insisted on my being back to lunch — then she will understand I had to go.” Poor Uncle George 1 his distress and embarrassment were so extreme that he was ready to part with this last rag of inde- pendence, even before another, with whom he had hitherto kept up some fiction of his being responsible for his own actions. Kitty let him go, of conrse ; and as he got on his horse at the old “ mounting-stone ” in the Nook yard (within view of them all, as she knew), shook hands with him gaily, and waved her handkerchief as he rode out under the archway. Then, putting on as cheerful a face as she could assume, she entered the house. On the narrow and ill-lit stairs stood Jenny with her finger on her lips, as pale as a ghost. “ Come into my room,” she whis- pered. “ Mamma is tired, and has fallen asleep on the sofa ; and Tony is at his sums?” FALLEN FORTUNES. 264 Kitty followed her, alarmed for her secret ; her sister’s eyes seemed to pierce her. Jenny’s room was a pleasant one in its way, though, like others at the farmhouse, low and dark. Books were on the table, the floor, the chairs, and even the little bed ; her old desk was heaped with them. Beading and writing had elbowed out the lacemaking, which, however, she still pursued in the par- lour. “What news, Kitty? lam sure there is bad news,” were her first words as she closed the door. “ No — nothing,” faltered Kitty. “ Don’t deceive me, Kate — I mean, don’t try at it. Do you suppose I am blind ? Uncle George did not come here for nothing. Who ever saw him like that before, so nervous and ill at ease ? Was it like him to tell Tony to remain within doors ? Of course he had something private to tell you ; some misfortune — something about papa.” Kitty burst into tears. “Yes, Jenny, he had.” Then, as well as she could, she told her. She had wept but little before Mr. Campden ; sympathy of the passionate sort was wanting between them, and she had a reputation for courage to keep up; but now she broke down utterly. “ Hush ! ” said Jenny, warningly ; “mamma will hear you.” Her voice was firm, her eyes were tearless. Kit y thought she must have some hope. “ You think with Uncle George, dear, that the boat must have been washed overboard,” said she, eagerly — “that nothing has happened to the ship itself ? ” “No, I don’t,” was the cold reply. “ But you don’t think the steamer has gone down, Jenny ? ” continued her sister, pleadingly ; “ things will not surely be so bad as that.” “ My thinking will not alter them, Kitty. They have been bad enough hitherto. One thing T confess I am surprised at, that Mr. Campden should have had the forethought to keep back The Times ; that was a piece of prudence beyond Uncle George, and an act of tenderness (as I should have thought) beyond his wife,” “ It was Mr. Holt’s doing, Jenny,” said Kitty. “He tele- graphed to Biverside to put them on their guard about the paragraph.” “ Oh, indeed ; that explains the matter.” “ It was very thoughtful of Mr. Holt — was it not^ Jenny ? ” EVIL TIDINGS. 265 Certainly. But no one ever accused him of want of fore- thought. He is a man who lays his plans very far ahead, I reckon.” “ Jenny, darling, what makes yon so hard ? Surely, at a time like this ” “ Hard ? I am not hard,” broke in the other. “ It is you, Kitty, who are too soft. Do you suppose that this man cares one farthing about dear papa or mamma, or even about you, except so far as you concern himself ? Do you suppose he took Jeff because he liked him, or out of charity, or from any good motive of any kind ? Ko. He did it because he hoped to melt your heart towards himself ; in hopes that you would say, ‘ How thoughtful and kind Mr. Holt is ! ’ Just what you have said, in fact.” “ Oh, Jenny, how can you talk of Mr. Holt now, with such sad news knelling in our ears ! ” “ That is the very thing that makes me so bitter against him. At the first tidings of danger to dear papa, this man puts him- self forward, presses himself upon your attention. He knows Mrs. Campden is backing him.” ‘‘ And yet, if he had not telegraphed, Jenny; and The Times had come, and mamma had read the paragraph ” “True; it would have killed her. Pardon me, Kitty,” said Jenny, throwing her arms about her sister’s neck ; “I have been unjust and harsh. One has no right to disbelieve in good, for that means in God. Perhaps it is all for the best, but we have been greatly tried of late ; and we are feeble folk — like the conies — a few women and a child. It has seemed hard to me, that’s all. I have known about papa for weeks, that is, that the ship has been spoken of as overdue at Lloyd’s. Jeff wrote to say so.” “ Oh, Jenny, how could you keep such a dreadful secret to yourself ? ” “ Because is was needful, Kitty, as it is needful now to keep this one. I believe that mamma suspects something even as it is. She was no more deceived by Uncle George than I was.” “ But, Jenny, if she asks me ? ” “ She will ask nothing. She will be as dumb as an Indian at the stake. She will know that we have good reasons for being silent ; and that will be enough for her. She is a saint and a martyr ; and yet not a martyr for any purpose. I mean, ‘ un- merciful disaster ’ pursues her ‘ fast and ever faster,’ without any peasou, except it b^J to show the futility of being good.” 266 FALLEN FORTUNES. ‘^Ob, Jenny, don’t say that. The ways of Providence are in- scrutable.” “I think I have heard that remark before. For my part, Kitty, I derive no comfort from such commonplaces. You will presently tell me that we may be even worse off than we are. Mamma may die, for example, as well as papa be drowned. Then you will say, like the Job’s comforters of whom the poet speaks, that Death is common to the race. His reply was, if you remember — And common is the commonplace, And vacant chaff well meant for grain. I confess that I agree with him.” “ Oh, Jenny, do not be so bitter. I am sure, I am quite sure, that if dear mamma knew it, it would distress her almost as much as this sad news to-day.” “You are quite right, Kitty ; that is, because she is an angel. Yet only think what she has suffered ! Is Fate a coward, think you, that it should thus heap blow on blow on one like her, so helpless and so innocent ; or how is it ? ” “ The riddle of the painful earth” was growing too much for this poor girl, as it does grow once or twice in a lifetime for most of us ; and for some, alas ! all their hard lives through. Her thin hand was clenched, her frail frame trembled, her large soft eyes flashed defiance — at the Universal Law. There was one thing excusable about this poor impotent mutineer — that she was not in rebellion on her own account. Ko one had ever heard her, cripple and invalid though she was, utter one im- patient word with respect to her own condition. These bitter reproaches against Fate — the sceva mdignatio that Swift felt upon his own account, and would have had sculptured on his tomb- stone — were all for her mother’s sake • she reviled the Inevit- able, as the hen flutters her feathers in the face of the cruel fox because her young — not herself — are menaced. Mrs. Campden used to say of Jenny that she had an undis- ciplined mind ; one of those severe but sagacious remarks that even the shallowest people will bring forth sometimes, wdio are always talking, and always with the view of making themselves more or less disagreeable. Kate herself, as we heard upon the occasion of our first in- troduction to her, was by no means one who had accepted life without question, or concluded it easy-going for everybody, A CATASmOFHE. 267 because the way had been always, until recently, made smooth for her; but Jenny^s revolt was so decided that it shocked her into propriety of opinion, as a respectable Whig, finding himself in E-adical company, will shake his head, turn short round, and retrace his steps. In argument she knew her sister was too strong for her, so she wisely avoided it. “ My dear Jenny, all these things are too difficult for me,’’ she said frankly. “ Of course, I am well aware that dear mamma does not deserve to suffer ; for if she does, who on earth would escape suffering, as certainly some folks do ? Perhaps she suffers — as she does everything else — for the sake of other people ; of you and me, for instance. In the end she will be among the blessed for ever, but in the meantime she is martyred for our sake ; being a lesson to us of obedience and submission to the will of God such as we should never learn elsewhere. One may say, if this be so, it must be cruel to wish her to re- main with us ; and yet we are both so selfish that we cannot bear to think of parting with so sweet a teacher.” That is true, at all events,” said Jenny softly. ‘‘ I will go to her now, lest our absence should excite her suspicions. I shall say that I have seen you, and that Uncle George is gone. Kiss me Kitty.” The two sisters embraced tenderly ; they had never had the quarrels that sisters do ; thanks, perhaps, to Jenny’s condition. If Fate was* resolute to be hard upon them, it would at least find them united. CHAPTEE XXXIII. A CATASTROPHE. “ Oh, mamma ! Kitty ! news, news ! ” cried Tony, running joy- fully into his mother’s room one morning. She was not yet up; yielding to her daughters’ entreaties and to the monitions of her own growing sense of weakness, she had of late consented to take her morning m.eal in her bedroom. As her son entered, she rose from the pillow with eager eyes. “ What news, my child ? It is not post-time yet. How can there be news ? ” Kitty too, who was arranging some late autumn flowers in a little vase upon the dressing-table, so that her mother should see them reflected in the glass, turned round with a beating heart. “ The ship must have arrived at Eio 1 ” thought she. “ Oh mamma ! ” said Tony, his ardour greatly cooled, and 268 FALLEN FORTUNES. half-conscious of having aroused undue expectations, ‘‘the first snow has fallen upon the fell. It is quite high up ; but one can see it plainly, and it looks so beautiful. Margate says that it will not go away again till late in the spring ; and that its coming so early is a sign of a hard winter. What is the matter, dear mamma ? Mrs. Dalton had sunk back on the pillow, and covered her face with her thin hands. What sort of news she had expected, Kitty knew not ; but it was plain that the disappointment had been a terrible blow. “A hard winter,’’ she repeated, “a hard winter.” “ That is what Margate says,” continued Tony, re-assuringly ; “ but Margate may not be right, you know. And even if she is, what will it matter ? The snow will fall and fall ; the beck will be frozen ; the roads will be choked up, so that only light carts can come ; and we shall be snug and cosy in Sanbeck, all by ourselves, just as though we were out of the world.” “ Out of the world,” repeated his mother, slowly. “Yes, mamma; but why should we care, being all together,” reasoned Tony, gently. “ I have heard you say yourself, that you are always happy when you have us about you ; and I am so glad that I am not at Eton this half.” She was kissing him now in a strange, passionate manner, and the rare tears were streaming down her cheeks. Kitty would have drawn the boy away ; but she signed to her to leave him. “You have not forgotten who not here amongst us all, Tony ? ” whispered she. “ Oh no, mamma : I often think of dear papa.” “And pray for him, darling ? Do you pray for him ? ” “Yes, indeed I do; every night and morning,” answered he in her ear, “ just as you taught me. There is no snow where he is gone, Jenny says. — I went to Jenny first, because I knew she was up and at her desk. And I have promised her to write to him all about it. Margate says there will be skating on the mere, and sleighing; the timber trucks make capital sleighs, and the boys will draw me — half a dozen of them at a time, Margate says — and one shoots down the fell like an arrow. Now, all that will be something to write about to papa. I don’t mind writing, when I have got something to write about — that’s her difficulty, Jenny says ; so it happens to clever people as well as to stupid ones. And oh, dear mamma, I do hope you will get out as far as the bridge to-day, and see the snow on the fell.” A CATASTROPHE. 269 Poor Tony came back to that as his one strong point, and the sole excuse for his enthusiasm ; but he felt that it was not so strong as it was, and that he had overrated the importance of his tidings. He even understood that his mother’s thoughts were too occupied with “dear papa” to take much interest in the natural phenomenon which had taken place ; but beyond that, matters were a puzzle to him. Kitty, on the other hand, now felt that Jenny had been right when she said that her mother suspected something was amiss ; that her apprehensions respecting the Flamhorough Head and the precious life it carried were not less poignant than hers and Jenny’s, though they had not the same sad foundation. She had never said one word to her of her walk to the mere with Uncle George, or even referred to his visit ; a suspicious circumstance of itself, and which, joined to what she had seen that morning, made tender Kitty’s heart bleed. Jenny had now no secrets from her sister as respected the steamer. Jeff had written again — at Jenny’s desire — describing what had happened at Lloyd’s ; how first “ the Committee ” had announced “ that they would be glad of information regard- ing the Flamhorough Head,^^ and how afterwards it had been placed in the dread list of “ Missing Vessels.” Yet even he had not said one word of the paragraph about the wreck, wishing to spare his correspondent, and ignorant that ill news was already known. So week after week went by, and the snow fell as Margate had prophesied it would do — heavier than it had been known to fall for many a year in Sanbeck ; no roll of wheel nor beat of hoof was heard — and indeed, save the doctor’s pony and the butcher’s light cart from Bleabarrow (the latter only at long intervals), there was no traffic of any kind in the little valley. The voice of its stream was hushed, and its fir-trees, too heavily weighted by the snow, had ceased to murmur ; all was silence and solitude. The Daltons were literally out of the world. Few letters arrived for them now, even when the postman came, which was not always (for there was danger of him being “smoored” in the drifts) ; the most sympathising folks cannot be always writing to condole with us, and there was no opportunity, alas ! in this case for aught else but condolence. Our misfortunes are wearisome to our friends as well as our- selves, and make dumb both us and them. As to the Daltons’ ordinary acquaintances, who had been very numerous, the family had “gone under,” and were already forgotten. Kitty 270 FALLEN FORTUNES, was the one who suffered most from this isolation ; to her mother it seemed well to be alone with her wretchedness ; and Jenny had occupation — the balm for anxious minds. She was for ever writing and reading. Kitty was fond of reading, but not of study ; she was not omnivorous, like her sister, and the library of the late Mr. Landed had few attractions for her. She was, in truth, a devotee at the shrine of the circulating library ; a persecuted faith, but one which has a great many charming followers. As the family subscription in London was not yet run out, the books came down with those of the ‘Campdens to Riverside, and were afterwards forwarded by carrier. “If the snow permits it, pray send me over our batch of books, wrote Kitty imploringly to Mary ; “ it is a case of real destitution ; I am starving for light literature : not a novel has met my eye for a fortnight. I am now reading the ‘ Pilgrim^s Progress ^ — the most recent work in the library of the ISTook.^^ Mrs. Campden denounced this note as “flippant,” considering the circumstances of Kate’s position. The writer, indeed, was by no means in a flippant mood ; only she no longer wore her heart upon her sleeve with respect to Mary. She did not feel inclined to lay bare to her her miserable anxieties, and affected a gaiety that she was far enough from feeling. It is true we should never affect anything ; but Kitty would have found it hard to please Mrs. Campden now by any style of composition. With a large class of persons, the unfortunate, like the absent, are always in the wrong ; and besides, the mistress of Riverside was angry with the girl for refusing or withholding encourage- ment to Mr. Holt. However, the books were sent off as requested, and reached their destination, although with some difficulty, and not until late in the afternoon. The carrier, who was suitably enter- tained in the kitchen by Margate, in recompense for his courage, gave a terrible account of his journey. If his cart had not been the best built and lightest of all carts, and the horse a paragon of strength and endurance, he could never have come up the valley ! The snow was five or six feet deep in many places, and hung so heavy on the hedge-rows that they looked like white walls ! He tossed off his glass of spirits so quickly after his meal, in order that he might get home before dark, that he found he had just time for another. The treasure he had brought with him was taken into the parlour, and at once divested by Kitty of its coverings. She had thrown down the brown paper and the white upon the ground, and plunged A catastrophe. \ 271 into a first volume of her favourite author; and under his benign influence Timie, notwithstanding its weight and weari- ness and woe, was flying. She only knew that it was growing late because of the waning light, which made her bring the enchanted pages nearer to the window. Presently, her mother entered the room, and her first act was to pick up the discarded wrappings of the parcel. “ Oh mamma, I am so sorry,’^ said Kate, remorsefully. Neither she nor her sister, though neat enough in their personal appearance, were tidy; whereas, if Mrs. Dalton had a weakness, be- sides good-will for everybody, it was for putting things straight. “ Nay, nay, my dear,^’ answered she, smiling ; “ don’t reproach yourself : it was natural enough that, in your eager- ness for the kernel you should forget the husk.” “But that I should have made you stoop to pick them up, mamma — I am quite ashamed of myself.” And she cheerfully shut up her book with the air of a good ^nun, who has prescribed for herself a penance. “Nay, my darling ; I am going to look through our weekly accounts ; so do not punish yourself in that way. I don’t want you to make yourself agreeable just now ; only please to get the lamp, for my old eyes will not serve me in this twilight.” Neither Margate nor her myrmidon was entrusted with the trimming of the lamp, which, with many another household duty, was now Kitty’s peculiar care. Notwithstanding the economical fashion in which the Daltons lived at the Nook — it was much more meagre than what fine folks call “quiet” — their establishment was to be even still more reduced ; it was found that Lucy could not be retained beyond the quarter. The fact was, with all their good sense and wish to spend as little as possible, certain free-handed habits — a shilling here and sixpence there, and food for whoever set foot in the house on real or pretended service — could not be discarded all on a sudden. In vain the weekly accounts were pared to the thinnest proportions; the “extras” somehow swallowed up the sayings. Of course it would be a pang to part with their last attendant ; but not so severe as it would have been a few weeks ago. Although her emoluments were the same as before, Lucy was not so easily reconciled to the roughness of the new regime as w.ere her mistress and the young ladies ; and she complained of the lack of “society.” Margate’s gossip — for it is not to be supposed that Nature had denied her the usual springs of conversation — itself by no means piquant, was also entirely local; 272 FALLEN FORTUNES. while the gurl,*’ as the third retainer of the familjwas scornfully denominated by the lady’s-maid, was a mere sponge or sucker. Her ears and mouth were open for everything, but there was no reciprocity. We cannot all of us be self-denying for ever ; it is something if one makes a temporary sacrifice at the shrine of duty, and poor Lucy had found by this time that her promise of life-long service to her old employers would be not a little irksome to keep. So she was parting from them, though on the best of terms ; and in the meantime Kitty was learning to “make herself useful” about the house — a very elastic phrase, which, as we have seen, included lamp-trimming. A neater-handed Phyllis than Kitty it is impossible to imagine ; and whatever she set her hand to she graced. If you could have seen her now, as she comes up the oaken stairs with the lamp, burnished, and throwing its mellow light upon her golden hair, you would have said that the Daltons had one family ornament at least still left to them, one rare and beautiful picture, which — however humble its frame — would not escape the judicious eye of the connoisseur. “ Congratulate me, mamma, upon my success,” said she, as she stepped carefully into the parlour over the raised threshold that had been very literally a stumbling-block from generation to generation of the dwellers in the Kook. “Does it not burn well ? ” There was no reply ; and, hastily setting down the lamp, Kitty looked around her in some trepidation. Under the deep window-seat where she had herself been sitting a few minutes before, lay a motionless figure. “ Mamma ! ’’ shrieked she, in an agony, and was down on her knees beside her in a second ; then “ Lucy ! Margate ! Help ! help I ” rang through the old house. Her first thought was of physical aid, and therefore she did not call Jenny ; yet Jenny arrived somehow — though her chamber was farthest off — as soon as the others. When the kitchen-girl, rushing in with the rest, wrung her hands and cried, “She is dead, she is dead!” it was Jenny who said, “ Hush, fool 1 ” as Margate afterwards observed, “like a man,” and took the direction of affairs. ‘ ‘ Lift her up and put her on the sofa,” was the order that three pair of strong and willing arms promptly obeyed ; and, in the meantime, Jenny’s own hands had removed the pillow, “ She has fainted ; that is all, Jenny,” whispered Kitty, with anxious pleading. TONYAS EXPEDITIOAT. 273 “ How did it happen ? Where did you find her ? returned the other, in the same low voice. “ Just as you saw her. I had left the room for the lamp, only a minute or two.’’ “ What is that newspaper in the corner ? ” “It is what the books were wrapped in; mamma has just taken them up.” Jenny walked quickly forward and picked up the paper. Her eye, glancing quickly over the page, fell at once on the heading : “ Supposed loss of the Flamborough Head.^^ “ Good God, Kitty, mamma has read it — the paragraph about the wreck. Margate, some one must go for Dr. Curzon instantly ; not one moment is to be lost.” “ Indeed, ma’am, there is not a soul to send. If we had known it before the carrier had gone ; but there is not a man nearer than Farmer Boynton’s ; and the snow ” “ I will go,” cried a small voice, half-choked with tears ; and Tony, who had crept in unobserved, and was standing by his mother’s side in a passion of silent grief, instantly left the room, and the next moment was seen flying across the courtyard. “ The poor child has not even put on his cloak,” murmured Margate, pitifully. The night was falling, and the snow was deep ; but at that awful time, with that lifeless form and death- like face lying before them, neither Kitty nor Jenny could think of aught save her who had given them being. CHAPTER XXXIV. tony’s expedition. At nine years old some town-boys are already men in matters upon which a large class of men most pride themselves : in self- reliance, habits of economy, and the art, if not of getting on in the world, at all events of taking good care of themselves in it. In seven years more, if such a lad is in the costermonger line, he will even have a wife and a carriage. But in the upper classes, our boys remain boys for a long time — some of them, under exceptionally favourable circumstances, even all their lives — and notwithstanding the boasted advantages of our public schools, are strangely helpless and dependent. They are trusted early enough (occasionally too early) to go to the play by them- selves with a sovereign in their pocket ; but without the sove- reign — without, that is to say, the adventitious aids, and claims upon the services of others, to which they have always been T 274 FALLEN FORTUNES. accustomed — the Britishi school-boy is no match for the street Arab of ou e-half his years. When Master Anthony Dalton set out on his errand to Dr. Curzon^s, he had not even “ the light heart and the thin pair of breeches so much eulogised by philosophers as adapted to the needs of human life. He had a very heavy heart and knickerbockers. There was nothing on the side of this gallant young gentleman, aged nine, but pluck and a good cause ; and there were a great many things — in- cluding the wind, which was from the north-west, and blew right up the valley — against him. Like the rest of his race., he was of delicate constitution, and had been brought up delicately, as was natural enough in a family in which he was the only boy. Town-born and town- bred, he had never seen the country save in summer-time, till he came to the Hook, and had probably never been out in it, save in a carriage, after dark. He was not the least of a “ molly- coddle,” and certainly no coward ; yet if the road to Dr. Curzon’s had been throughout in its normal state, and well lit as a London street, circumstances had been such with Tony as to render his present expedition, in the phrase of his women-folk, “ quite an undertaking ; ” and considering that the night soon grew to be so dark that he could scarcely see a yard before him, and that the snow was everywhere two feet deep at least in the roadway, and sometimes half-a-dozen, it must be allowed that the child had his work before him. Of difficulty, however, and far less of danger, Tony had no thought as he ran down the noiseless road towards the bridge. His mind was full of his mother, the sight of whose death-like features had appalled him, and his one consuming idea was to bring Dr. Curzon to her side and save her life. He no longer sobbed, but husbanded his breath for her dear sake, and plied his little legs. It had been his intention at first to go to Farmer Boynton’s as Margate had suggested, and get a messenger from among the men at the homestead ; but the farm was some way up the valley, in the contrary direction to the doctor’s house, and he felt that time would be lost by his so doing. If he could fetch the doctor himself — and the snow was not very deep as yet, though he made but slow progress — help would reach the Hook all the sooner. Behind were the lights of the village ; on the left was the solitary beacon of Boynton’s farm ; to the right lay the long road, so white and yet so dark, with no glimmer from house or homestead ; yet to the right he turned, and plunged on through the half-yielding snow* TONYAS EXPEDITION, m It was a pitiful struggle, as struggles against ITature in her iron mood mostly are ; and the odds, always great against poor humanity, were in this case overwhelming. The little lad did not even know, what any child who does “ the wheel ” for half- pence from the knife-board could have told him, how to husband his breath. He was almost pumped out^^ already, yet he ran on at the top of his speed. It was grown too dark to distinguish the hard snow from that which was rotten and gave way to his light tread, or to avoid the deep furrows left by the carrier’s cart. A slight bend of the road had already hidden the lights behind him, and walls of snow shut him in to the right and left. His mind reverted to a picture in the old house at home of the retreat from Moscow, of a young conscript left behind by his comrades, and perishing in the white and solitary waste. It had taken hold of his childish imagination, and he had often dreamt of it in his little cot, and been glad to wake in the morning and find his mother’s face looking down upon him with her sweet smile. At that recollection his heart smote him for having forgotten the condition in which he had left her, even for a moment, and he sped on with renewed vigour. If will could have done it, Tony would have run on to York, had it been necessary ; but unhappily it is not true that wherever there is a will there is a way. The boy began to stumble, and then to stagger, like a drunken man. His legs still moved, but mechani- cally ; he had lost control over them, and was presently landed, head first, in a snowdrift by the wayside ; there he lay for a few seconds, half unconscious. He would have been glad enough to remain there for ever, but the thought of his mother still spurred him on, and he contrived to extricate himself. There was a sharp pain in his right foot, as though a hot iron had seared it ; his shoe had come ofi* in the snow. As he ran on, he sent forth one wild passionate cry — a bitter acknowledgment of failure, rather than an appeal for aid ; then stumbled and fell. “ Hulloa ! there; hulloa ! ” responded a gruff voice. Tony heard it, but as one hears a voice in dreams. ‘‘ I say, hulloa ! ” continued the voice reproachfully, as though a civil observation of that description, civilly put, had deserved a civil reply. Then the light of a lantern gleamed over the track, and John Bates, the Bleabarrow carrier, came cautiously along it, and almost fell over the boy’s prostrate body. Then he exclaimed “ Hulloa ! ” again, but this time in a very aston- ished tone — it was a word he had evidently found capable of great modulation — and stooping down, picked up poor Tony. FALLEN FORTUNES, Why, hulloa ! young gentleman ” — here the word expressed commiseration as well as surprise — “ this is a pretty game, es- pecially played with ‘ one shoe off and one shoe on,' like ‘ my man John ' our Emmy sings about. It’s my opinion as it’s precious lucky for thee that the old mare came to a full stop just Avhere she did, or thou wouldst never have seen the Nook again.” He carried the boy back to his cart, which was stuck fast in the snow, a few yards ahead, and placed him tenderly among some empty sacks. “ Well, this settles me not to try to push on any more. — Coom, Ned, coom ” (here he addressed his horse) ; “let us turn round and go back to Sanbeck.” “ The doctor, the doctor ! ” cried Tony, suddenly, raising him- self from the sacks. “ Mamma’s ill, and wants the doctor.” “ And could they find nobody in all the place but a little lad like thee to fetch the doctor to thy mother such a night as this ? ” “ Yes ; a man could have gone from Farmer Boynton’s, but I thought I could go quicker myself. Oh, please let us go at once.” “ But the wheels can't move a yard that way; and I doubt whether I could get there afoot myself. To be sure, I could take Ned out, and ride him, and leave thee here in the cart.” “ I said I would fetch the doctor,” said Tony, resolutely, “ and I’d rather do it.” “ Very good; and so thou shalt. With thy bare foot, and in such sad plight, it will be better for thee to be put to bed at Dr. Curzon’s. So I will ride Ned, and take thee before me. If it had not been for the good stuff they gave me at the Nook, I should have been starved o’ cold by this time ; and one good turn deserves another.” The honest carrier needed not have thus found an excuse for an act of benevolence which was natural to him. Most men who pass their lives exposed to wind and weather have wholesome natures. The possession of an “ Emmy ” of his own, too, doubt- less made “the soft spot” in Mr. John Bates’s heart still softer. He unharnessed the horse ; and throwing a sack or two on his bare back, for Tony’s accommodation, mounted, and placing the boy before him, moved slowly along the snow-choked way to- wards the doctor’s house. They reached it at last, taking six times the time they would have done upon ordinary occasions ; and scarcely less astonished was the worthy doctor at their ap- pearance than if they had been two veritable Knights Templars, TONY'S EXPEDITION 277 travelling according to the ancient custom of their order. He looked grave, indeed, when Tony told him his errand ; but reas- suming his habitual cheerfulness, at once ordered his pony to be brought round. “ As for you, young gentleman, since you have lost a shoe/^ said he, “ you had better sleep at my house.” But Tony besought so earnestly to be taken back to the Hook, to see about mamma, that having been fortified as to his inward boy with something hot, and wrapped up in various warm coverings, he was once more placed before the carrier, who had made up his mind to stay the night at Farmer Boynton’s ; and the three started together for Sanbeck. It was an expedition that in after-years Tony never forgot, down to its minutest details ; the great events of human life stamp not only them- selves upon the mind, but all the surroundings which accompany them : the snow-clad road, the leaden night, and every incident of his noiseless journey, were destined to hang in that picture- gallery of the past (which there are none so poor as not to possess) for ever ; the very motion of the sturdy shoulders of the horse the boy so unwontedly bestrode, recurred to him long after his two companions had paid the debt of nature. Though they rode through the muffled courtyard of the Hook without a sound, the servant-girl, who was on the watch, ran out to meet them, and whispered something in the doctor’s ear ; he was off his pony in an instant, but not before Tony had scrambled down from his huge steed. “ Ho, my boy,” said the doctor, gravely, as the lad was about to limp upstairs ; “ you must not go to your mamma’s room just now.” ‘‘ What is the matter. Sue ? Is mamma worse ? ” cried Tony, wildly ; his little legs trembled under him with fatigue and apprehension of he knew not what. The girl picked him up in her strong arms, and placed him in a chair by the kitchen fire. “ Ho, no ; now the doctor has come all will be right,” said she ; ‘‘ but you must not run about without your shoes. What a walk you must have had through the snow and dark ! ” “ Oh, that’s nothing ; at least, nothing to cry about ; ” for the girl had begun to sob hysterically. “ Tell me about mamma.” A thin, shrill, quavering cry was heard above-stairs. “What is that, Sue ? ” “You have got a little baby brother. Master Tony j such a dear little thing \ ” FALLEN FORTUNES. 278 Tony was nonplussed. He had always understood that the doctors brought these little strangers ; but if Dr. Curzon had brought this one, he must have carried it in the crown of his hat — a performance Tony had never seen equalled save by a conjurer in London, who had brought a bowl of gold-fish out of the same receptacle. “ I should like to see my baby brother, if I can’t see mamma,” said Tony, dreamily ; he had but a faint interest in this newly- arrived relative, and he felt dreadfully tired. “ So you shall, if you will just lie down in your bed a bit : it is your bedtime nearly, and you must take ofi* your w^et things, you know.” “ But you’ll call me directly mamma asks to see me ?” pleaded the boy. “ Oh yes, Master Tony, yes : when she asks, I will.” There was something strange in the girl’s voice and manner, which he could not understand. But he was too worn out for guessing riddles. He even submitted to be carried into his own little room, an indignity he had not endured for many a year, and was put to bed like a child, or a gentleman wdio has taken too much champagne. In the morning he awoke so late that the sun was streaming full upon his bed, and upon Jenny’s thin, white face, who was bending over his pillow with an expression that he had never seen her wear before ; it was tender, but yet grave and almost stern. “ Have I overslept myself, Jenny, and got late for lessons ? ?* said he. Then rapidly collecting his ideas : And how is mamma ? Sue promised that when she asked for me Oh Jenny, what is the matter ? ” Mamma will never ask for you again, dear Tony, nor for any of us. She is ” ‘^Dead ? ” The boy burst into passionate sobs. “ Oh, don’t say dead, Jenny ! ” “ Yes, darling. We have lost the best mother that ever children had.” “ Oh mamma, mamma ! ” cried Tony, stretching out his little arms. It was terrible to see so young a creature so torn with anguish. The door opened, and Kitty entered, her beautiful face puck- ered with weeping. “ You have told him, then, Jenny ?” said she, in broken tones. “ Yes, dear \ I thought it best/’ BEREAVED. 279 “ But why, why did they not send for me ? Why did they let me sleep ? ’’ asked Tony, reproachfully. “ Did mamma never ask ’’ “ Yes, darling, yes,’^ said Kitty ; she did ask for you, but not in time ; and when we told her you had gone for the doctor, through the dark and snow, she thanked yon with her sweet eyes. ‘My poor, poor boy,’ she said. It is we who are to be pitied, darling, and not she, for she is an angel in heaven.” “ Sue told me I had a baby brother ? ” said Tony, softly, after a little pause. “Yes, dear, you have.” “ How strange and sad it will be for poor papa,” continued the boy, thoughtfully, “ to hear that mamma has gone to heaven, and that there is a baby brother ! ” Neither Kitty nor Jenny could make reply. They had not the heart to tell him that in all human probability the news that had broken their mother’s heart was true ; that they three — and the baby boy — were left alone in the world ; not only motherless, but fatherless. CHAPTER XXXV. BEREAVED. What change happens to those who have cast ofiP this mortal coil, He only knows who has put it for a brief span upon us ; but it can hardly be much greater than that which befalls the living whom the beloved ones have left behind them. To know they have departed, Their voice, their face, are gone ; To feel impatient-hearted, Yet know we must live on, is an experience that transcends all others in this world. The vacant chair in the household that has been knit together in bonds of love, has all the sacredness of the altar, and ten times its suggestiveness. For the time it seems as though the sun had vanished from the skies and all was dark. The home has lost its charm, and is more hateful, because more full of bitterest remindings, than any stranger’s roof. We weep, we plead, we beat against the gates of heaven, to call the lost oue back — in vain. What is wealth, or health, compared with that which yesterday we thought but a common blessing, taken as a matter of course, treated as though it would remain with us for ever, 28 o FALLEN FORTUNES. and now is gone ! Oh cruel Fate ! unpitying Arbiter ! Worker of Desolation and Despair ! ’Tis better to have loved and lost, says one, Than never to have loved at all. Oh It may be so, but that is too hard a saying for ns even to understand, much more to derive comfort from it ; for the love of the departed one was a portion of our very selves, the spring of our every action, the theme of our deepest thought — and he has left us for ever. It is idle to tell us we shall meet again. What consolation is it to the child who weeps and clings, when sent from home for the first time to school, that there will be holidays at midsummer ! And we are in worse plight than he, for we are not sure — the very best of us are not quite sure — that there will be holidays. And if there be, what change will not be wrought in us. We may be children then no more ; and he that has gone before may be unrecognisable. Death is com- mon.’^ “ All is for the best.” “ It is the will of Giod.” Cold comfort all. Think of the Hook in Sandbeck, with the snow without, and the pale corpse within; the orphaned girls and Tony, well-nigh penniless, well-nigh friendless, with their helpless charge, but one day old. There are tens of thousands in the land in wmrse plight than they ; and tens of hundreds, rich in this wmrld’s goods, who complain that they have no object in life, and devote themselves to Ritualism, Exeter Hall preachings, or old china, in default of it. The man who had killed Mrs. Dalton was poor Mr. Marks, the butler at Riverside, who had thoughtlessly wrapped around Mr. Mudie’s books that fatal Times ; but he was, after all, but the immediate cause of her decease ; she would have died any way — so Dr. Curzon said — in bringing that new life into the world. For weeks she had dragged on with a breaking heart; consumed with unutterable apprehensions upon her husband’s account ; uncheered by hope ; and laden with anxieties for her children’s future. “ If she ain’t gone to heaven, sir,” observed old Margate in confidence to Dr. Curzon, “ there ain’t no such a place.” An observation worth a good many beaten-out and attenuated remarks to the same effect which were made by others on the occasion. They laid her in the sunniest spot of the little God’s-acre — the purest embodiment of good it had ever known — and many BEREAVED. 281 a genuine tear was dropped for her from eyes unused to pay such tribute. Dr. Cnrzon was deeply affected, and Mr, Camp- den also. Kind Jeff, whose coming down from town for such a purpose was stigmatised by a certain lady as ‘‘ a most ridicu- lous act of extravagance,” was among the mourners, and wept almost as bitterly as little Tony himself. The two girls accom- panied the body to the grave, as likewise did Mrs. Campden and her daughter. “ I would go much farther than to Sanbeck churchyard,” said the former, ‘‘to show my respect for the memory of dearest Edith;” and there is no reason to doubt her word, though there would probably have been limits as to distance. She meant to be kind after her fashion, but she was certainly not judicious in entering as she did upon the material aspect of their affairs with the poor mourners on the very day on which their mother had been laid in her grave. Her daughter and herself had returned with them to the Nook after the funeral ; while her husband and the doctor, with Jeff and Tony, were taking a walk towards the mere, which the melting of the snow during the previous week — one of sunshine and compara- tive mildness — enabled them to do. “It is so much more easy for men to escape from disagreeable scenes than women,” as Mrs. Campden justly observed; although she might have added that certain scenes disagreeable to all men are not so to all women. We do not mean to say that Mrs. Campden absolutely enjoyed her visit to the Nook upon the present melancholy occasion, but without doubt it had some pleasing features for her. It was an occasion that — in many senses — could be im- proved, and she was fond of improving an occasion. Without exactly putting herself in the place of the girls’ “ natural pro- tector,” — which would have involved something besides privi- leges — she was in an undeniable position for offering advice, if not for absolute dictation ; and for playing the patroness as far as that game could be played for love. As their only kins- woman, she had really succeeded to some authority over them, and Kitty, at least, was wdlling to admit it. “My dear girls,” said she, impressively, “you have a right to look to me in future — for counsel ; and, God willing, it shall never be denied you. Your dear mother’s death has in no respect altered your position in my affections, unless it be to make you dearer to me. I am sure my Mary feels the same.” “ Kitty and Jenny both know that, mamma, without my telling them,” said Mary, brusquely. She had a consciousness, 282 FALLEN FORTUNES. quickened by a certain expression in Jenny’s eye, tbat this speech of her mother’s was not quite what it should be, or, at all events, that it was not very warmly appreciated. ‘‘ My dear child, in a solemn hour like this, one should not only think, but speak the words of cheer. It has pleased an inscrutable Providence to deprive your cousins of their natural guardian ; indeed, there is only too much reason to fear of hotli their parents. They are, unhappily, also left but slenderly pro- vided for. Under these circumstances, it behoves those who love them to speak with tenderness, yet with decision. It is impossible at their age that they should know the world, or what is best for them to do in the world ; and it is my duty to tell them that in reality their choice is very small. Even with the experience of their good mother to aid them, they have found it hard, I fear, to make both ends meet ; and they will find it still harder now.” ‘‘Do you call these ‘ words of cheer,’ madam ? ” inquired Jenny, suddenly, with the air of a person who asks for informa- tion. “ They are words of truth, at all events, my poor girl,” answered Mrs. Campden, pityingly, “as you will surely dis- cover ; though, indeed, I was not addressing myself so much to you as to Kate. Well, in this, your extremity, as I may truly call it, a friend has unexpectedly proffered his aid.” “ Mr. Holt, I suppose ? ” said Jenny, coldly. “Yes, it is Mr. Holt, Jane ; though I don’t know why you should suppose any such thing,” answered Mrs. Campden, re- provingly. “ You have no claim upon his good offices, so far as I know, in any way. Yet only consider what he has done. From the moment that that dreadful paragraph appeared in the newspaper which has already worked such woe — poor Marks is quite broken-hearted about his share in the matter, and I hope it will be a lesson to him never to act without thought, as long as he lives — I say, ever since these miserable tidings came to England, Mr. Holt has been moving heaven and earth to get your father’s insurance-money paid ” Kitty started to her feet. “ What ! is there, then, no hope ? ” cried she. Jenny trembled in every limb, but remained silent. Her courage was greater than that of her sister, but her strength was small. “ I fear that there is very little hope, Kitty,” said Mrs. Campden, quietly. “We must not disguise from ourselves BEREA VED. 283 what has really happened. The ship is many weeks behind its time, and has been already ‘ written oft ^ — I believe that is the phrase — at Lloyd’s ; and then there is this shattered boat picked np belonging to it. The Flamborougli Head is painted on it. Nothing can be more morally conclasive. On the other hand, there is a difficulty about the payment of your father’s insurance by the Palm Branchy because his death cannot be substantiated. Mr. Campden could tell you all about it, because he is a director of the Company, but he naturally feels a delicacy in talking of it. From his very connection with the matter, his lips are in a manner sealed.” “ Why ? ” inquired Jenny. “My good girl, I wish you would not speak so brusquely. It is positively startling. You must really get out of that curt manner, which is the reverse of conciliatory. Of course I don’t mind it myself, that is to say seriously — but others may take objection to it ; and under present circumstances it behoves you to make no enemies, but all the friends you can. The reason is surely evident enough why my husband, being a director, and indeed the chairman of the Palm Branch, can take no steps that may prejudice its interests on behalf of a personal friend. The Company has for the present refused to pay, and in the meantime money will be wanting to you for a hundred things — for what has happened to-day, for one. Forgive me for alluding to mat- ters that must needs give you pain ; but this is no time for false delicacy. Well, you want money at once, and for the present the Palm Branch wall not pay the sum to which you would be entitled if the fact of your father’s death could be established. Under these circumstances, the kind friend of w^hom I speak has offered to advance you whatever may be required.” “ That is very generous,” said Kitty, softly. “ The advance would be made on the security of the in- surance,” observed Jenny. “ Well, yes, of course it would. But if your father is alive the loan is lost, for where is he to find the money to repay it ? ” “ Then in that case Mr. Holt would be giving us the money, would he not ? ” continued Jenny. “ Yes, indeed ; and there are very few persons, let me tell you, who would make so noble, so large-hearted an offer.” “ Let us hope there would be also very few persons who would accept it, Mrs. Campden.” “Jane, you must be mad!” cried Mrs. Campden, angrily. “ Kate, if you have any influence with your sister — for it seems 284 FALLEN FORTUNES. I have none — I do trust you will exert it for her own benefit. She does not understand her position/^ “You are wrong there, Mrs. Campden ; thanks to your plain speaking — a duty, as you call it;, in which you have never failed since our misfortunes began — it is quite impossible that any one of us could misunderstand it. Kitty, of course, will do as she thinks proper; but for myself I do not take one shilling of this man’s money either as loan or gift. I would starve first.” “ My dear Jenny ! ” cried Mary, with a little scream ; “pray don’t say such dreadful things. Mamma always exaggerates, you know ; things are not so bad ” “ Be quiet, Mary,” interrupted Mrs. Campden, very sharply ; “ you are talking like a fool. If things are not so bad with your cousins, it is only in the sense that they are not so bad as they may be. It is impossible to imagine a darker future than awaits them, should they decline this opportune, and, I must say, most delicately offered aid. Fortunately, the decision does not rest with Jane, but with Kitty. She is the house manager, and knows how matters stand ; and with the debt for her mother’s very funeral hanging over her head ” “ Stop, stop ! ” pleaded Kitty, pitifully. “ Do not talk of that to-day, I entreat you. Give me time — a few days at least — to think over what you have said, and then you shall have my answer.” “ You will do as you please, my dear, of course,” replied Mrs. Campden, with a pitying smile ; “ though why you should hesi- tate, even for a moment, is inexplicable to me. However, so be it. And now I have a proposition of my own to make, which has the merit, at all events ” — here she threw a meaning glance at Jenny — “ of being open to no misconstruction. It is my in- tention — for the present, at all events — to provide for the little baby. It is strong and healthy enough. Dr. Curzon says, not- withstanding its somewhat premature arrival, so that a wet nurse is as unnecessary as she would, under the circumstances, be unjustifiable ; and our lodge-keeper’s wife, Mrs. Hardy — who, it seems, had a great affection for its poor mother — has consented to take charge of it. We have plenty of cows, you know ” “ Oh, please, Mrs. Campden, I couldn’t do that,” interrupted Kitty, decisively. “ The baby is the greatest comfort we have left to us. It is never out of my arms or Margate’s, and she understands all about it quite as well as Mrs. Hardy. The milk is as good here, too, as at Riverside ” “ My dear child, that is not the question,” put in the other, BEREA VED. 285 empliatically, “ The question is, do you get the milk for no- thing ? Why, of course you don’t ; and therefore to keep the baby would be an act of extravagance.” “ My dear mamma, I never heard of a baby being an article de luxe^^ said Mary, smiling. “Very likely not; but your cousins are unfortunately in a position to feel it as such,” returned her mother, gravely. “ It is not as if you would be separated from the child by any dis- tance, Kitty; and then, when you come over to Riverside, you could always see it. And if it was seriously ill, I should take care to let you know, of course.” Poor Kitty’s face had been growing longer and longer through- out this speech, for the baby was inexpressibly dear to her, as well on its own account as on that of her mother, of whom it seemed to be a portion. Jenny could find forgetfulness of her miseries in reading and writing ; but for herself, the soft, snoozie little form she . rocked to sleep upon her bosom was her only cure for the heartache. When Mrs. Campden talked so calmly of its being seriously ill ” miles away from her, Kitty shuddered. “ Indeed I could not part from the baby, Mrs. Campden. It is almost the greatest treasure I have left in life ; and I don’t think,” added she, with a faint smile, “it is a very expensive luxury.’^ “ You know your own affairs best, my dear,” answered Mrs. Campden, coldly. “ I meant nothing but kindness by my offer.” And she rose, and preened down her black silk and crape, in sign of flight. “We have put up our horses at Farmer Boynton’s, so that no unnecessary expense should be imposed upon you ; and I do hope you will be as considerate for yourself, Kitty, as your friends are for you. You understand what I mean. Now, I do trust to hear from you to-morrow or the next day, that your foolish scruples with respect to the offer of our common friend have been overcome.’^ She kissed Kitty as she spoke ; but Jenny had already betaken herself from the room, and Mrs. Campden perhaps was not displeased at the circumstance. She was not so indifferent to Jenny’s brusqueness as she affected to be ; the plain speaking on which she piqued herself was very unwel- come to her in others; and, besides, Jenny had a habit of quietly ripping up her satin speeches, and showing the seamy side of them, which made her particularly dislike that young lady. Of the baby, on the other hand, Mrs. Campden took a gracious leave — the woman’s heart must be bad indeed that does not warm to a baby — and yet its infant charms by no means so intoxicated her as to warp her practical good sense. 286 PALLEN PORTUNPS, “ It^s a dear little baby, said Mary ; is it not ? as sbe and ber mother crossed the bridge towards the farm. “Yes, indeed, and healthy too; though, under the circum- stances, one can hardly wish that it should live.’’ “ Fie, mamma^ how you talk ! ” returned Mary, not a little shocked. It was creditable to her to have retained her suscep- tibilities so long ; her mother’s honest speech and high princi- ples still gave her rather “a turn” occasionally. “Well, the point is, what is the poor little creature to live uponf^^ returned the elder lady. “Even when Mr. Dalton’s insurance-money is paid, there will hardly be enough for three mouths, much less for four. I suppose you don’t wish your papa to be saddled with the maintenance of a second boy for all his life ? ” “ Well, that does seem hard upon us, certainly,” answered Mary, her thoughts reverting to Jeff with some disfavour. “ Of course it would be hard — in fact, it is out of the question ; and yet you say (rather disrespectfully, I must needs remark), ‘ How you talk, mamma ! ’ when I say it is no charity to hope the child may live. If the carriage is ready, I shall not wait for your father. It will do him all the good in the world to walk home; and I am sure the accommodation at the farm is not at all what our horses are accustomed to.” In a few minutes the carriage drove by — close to the new- made grave — with the two ladies sitting in it alone, CHAPTER XXXVI. JENNY AT BAT. Mr. Campben was upon the whole not sorry to have been left behind by his wife at Sanbeck ; the short way to Riverside over the crags was not, indeed, very nice walking in winter weather ; but it was no great distance to Bleabarrow, where “ the fly ” could be procured to take him home ; and he was really glad of being alone with Jeff, and of having a word or two in private with the two girls. Jeff had received no summons to Riverside upon this melancholy occasion — Mrs. Campden objected, as a matter of principle, to people running into expenses for mere sentiment — but had invited himself to Dr. Curzon’s. “ I should like, if it would not be inconvenient to you,” ho wrote the doctor, “ to pay the last tribute of respect to the best and dearest friend I have had in the world ; ” and the doctor had allowed the plea, and welcomed the lad warmly. 287 JENNV AT BA V. He looked something more than a lad now ; his life in town had given him an air of independence and self-possession, though without the least touch of conceit. He looked handsomer than ever, though his dark eyes were heavy with woe, and his fair face shadowed with grief, as he walked with little Tony ahead of their two companions, and talked in a low voice of the de- parted dear one. With the squire and the doctor, as was natural, the future of the orphaned Daltons formed the chief topic of conversation ; and in connection with it, Mr. Campden mentioned the offer that had been made by Mr. Holt. “ It was a deuced kind thing of the man, that I must say,^’ observed he, when he had delivered this information, which he felt somehow had fallen flat. “ Very much so,” said the doctor, ‘‘if it was disinterested.” “ There was no promise attached to it whatsoever, my good friend ; the offer was made quite free.” “ Still, from what I have seen of Mr. Holt,” persisted the other, “ I should think he was a gentleman who looked, in some shape or another, for his quid jpro quo. Moreover, I believe him clever enough to gauge the nature of those with whom he has to deal. If he lends our young friends money, he places them under an obligation ; and there is only one Vay — as it seems to me — by which that obligation can be discharged.” “I think you are not very charitable to Mr. Holt,” said Mr. Campden, with a little flush. “ Perhaps not,” said the doctor, drily. “ Still, I think it hard upon the girl to place her in such a position. Suppose a lovely young woman, for example (and what can be more likely ?), advanced me money upon very doubtful security; — should not I be bound, if I could not repay her, to make her Mrs. C. ? ” “I believe you’re right, Curzon,” said Mr. Campden, sud- denly ; “ it has struck me in the same light myself. The money, if they want it, shall be forthcoming some other way.” He gave a great sigh as he said that, as a thrifty man might do who has made up his mind to some extravagance ; but Mr. Campden was not thrifty, and though he was counting the cost of what he had resolved to do, it was not the expense that made him sigh. If he advised the girls not to take this money, especially if his wife had already persuaded them to do so, “ there would be the deuce of a row” he knew, with Julia. “I say, Jeff, w^hat is your opinion of Mr. Holt?” inquired 288 FALLEN FORTUNES, tlie doctor presently, pitching his voice so as to reach the others; ‘‘that is, so far as you can tell it consistently with loyalty to your chief.” “Aje, we mustn’t disclose the secrets of the prison-house, must we ? ” said Mr, Campden; “ hov/ we rig the markets and all that.” “ I am bound to say that Mr. Holt has been uniformly civil to me,” replied the young fellow, frankly. “Hay, not only civil, but considerate. In my ignorance and inexperience, I have no doubt made lots of blunders in business matters, and he has never said a word about them. And this is the more creditable to him, because he hates me very cordially, and he knows that I hate him.” “My dear Jeff, I am astonished at you!” exclaimed Mr. Campden. The doctor looked astonished too, but with a sly twinkle in his eyes that did not speak reproof. “ No, sir ; we don’t like one another, and we never shall,” continued the young man ; “ but I do my duty by him, I hope, and, as I say, I have nothing to complain of in his behaviour to me.” “Well, I have known many partnerships carried on on worse terms,” observed the doctor, cheerfully. “But how was it that oil and vinegar were got to mix in the first instance ? ” “ The explanation is very simple, doctor. Mrs. Dalton — God bless her ! — asked Mr. Holt to take me, and advised me to go. And — and — ” here Jeff began for the first time to exhibit embarrassment — “ nothing else happened to offer itself.” For the second time the colour came into Mr. Campden’s face ; he could not but remember the circumstances under which Jeff had been driven from Riverside. It was quite a relief to him that a bend of the road here showed them the village — they were now returning from the mere — and once more introduced, by association, the topic of the morning. “ I should like to have a few words with your sisters before I start, Tony,” said the squire, “ if they feel equal to see me.” “ Oh, I am sure they would see Uncle George, because ” here he stopped short ; what he had in his mind was, “because they could see Mrs. Campden, who is not half so nice;” but, unlike that lady, he sometimes felt a hesitation in speaking his mind. “Because he is their best friend; eh, Tony?” observed the doctor, hastening to the rescue. “ That is quite right. We three will take another turn together while the squire goes in. JENNY AT BAY. 289 Since Mrs. Campden’s departure that afternoon, the two sisters had not met. Kitty had devoted herself to the baby, and Jenny had remained in her own room, endeavouring in vain to devote herself to her books. They were both aware that it behoved them to be doing something : not to give themselves over to the grief that was importuning them to become its prey. They only showed their weakness by avoiding the little drawing-room when they conveniently could ; since it was there that the sense of loss oppressed them most. The unfinished piece of work ; the still open desk ; the book half read ; the empty lounging-chair, were for the present daggers, each of which stabbed them to the very heart. Perhaps, too, the con- sciousness of their disagreement — or rather of their want of accord — with respect to the proposition made by Mrs. Oampden, had helped to keep them apart for that half-hour or so. A quarr^el was impossible between them at any time, much more on the very day when they had laid in earth the being they had loved best upon it, and who had repaid their love with such usurious interest. There were reasons, as I have shown, why these two from the first should not have gone the way of most sisters in this respect; and since misfortune had befallen them, the bonds of love between them had been naturally strengthened and tightened. It is a poor fancy, indeed, that has painted Love as flying out of the window when poverty knocks at the door. With those within, if they be not utterly worthless, he remains a more cherished guest than ever. Indeed, it was only their ordinary close affection and unanimity which gave any importance to the difference of opinion between the two sisters ; it seemed so strange to each that the other should take an opposite view of any matter. Jenny on her part had no doubt whatever as to the course they were bound to follow with respect to Mr. Holtzs offer. If she had thought Kitty was seriously thinking of accepting it, she would have been furious. She saw it at once in the very light in which it appeared to Dr. Curzon. ‘‘ This impudent man was offering to lend his money upon the very best of security — namely, on Kitty herself. If the offer was accepted, it was, in fact, the offer of his hand !” What hesitation, there- fore, need there be as to their reply ? As to Mrs. Campden’s making the proposition, that was only to be expected, after what had already happened, and was another reason, if such were wanted, for declining it. Sooner than see her Kitty sacrificed on the altar to Mammon, for the sake of herself and Tony and the baby, she wo2ild have ‘‘ starved first.” 290 FALLEN FORTUNES. Bui besides this bitter feeling, there was a fire kindled in Jenny’s breast that flamed against almost everybody; nay, which, resented the blows of Fate itself. She had taken it ill in church that day that the Bleabarrow clergyman — of whose cure Sanbeck formed a portion not much visited except in the summer months — should have spoken of her mother’s future with charitable confidence. The words of Hamlet addressed to the officiating minister at Ophelia’s grave would have expressed her thoughts. What priest on earth had the right to eulogise her mother, far less to hint a doubt of her perfection ? As for the outside world, she scorned it ; the chill touch of misfortune had withered up her soul, and shut her sympathies within very narrow limits. Her own flesh and blood — Jeff and the Doctor, Hurse Haywood and Uncle George — were now all the world held that was dear to her ; and even Uncle George Avas suffering in her opinion as the husband — or rather because he was the slave — of his Julia. Under these circumstances, it was perhaps creditable to poor Jenny that she had been as civil to Mrs. Campden that afternoon as she had been. Kitty, on the other hand, w'as actuated by different feelings. Her mother’s death had left her — until her father’s return, of which, however, she at least still entertained a hope — head of the family ; and her soul was filled with the sense of that responsibility. The proposition made on behalf of Mr. Holt did not strike her with that force and significance which it had for her sister ; she saw in it a kindness, unexpected indeed, but explicable enough on the ground of his friendship for her father. She looked upon the money as a loan, not as a gift ; and, though even so it would be unpleasant to accept it, she did not think it consistent with her duty to those left in her charge to refuse such an offer point-blank. She had not yet made herself aware how their slender finances actually stood, and therefore could not measure the necessity of the case ; and she was solicitous not to lose a friend for her dear ones, and still more not to make an enemy. That she could be resolute against dictation, when her heart counselled resistance, has been proved by her refusal of Mrs. Campden’s generous proposal to take the baby off* her hands; but Jenny had left the room before she had displayed this fortitude. It was, therefore, under some sort of misunderstanding, rather than disagreement, that the two sisters now met in the little sitting-room, having been summoned thither by the squire’s arrival. /ENNY AT BAY, ^gi My darlings/’ said he, gently, this is a sad day for you ; but I thought yon would not mind seeing Uncle George.” The sight of these delicate girls, so pale and mournful, in their simple black dresses, affected him deeply. He noticed that Kitty wept, while Jenny was quite dry-eyed, and yet that the latter looked the more pained and hopeless of the two ; that was probably, thought he, because of her physical ailment, poor thing. He tenderly embraced them both, and then spoke some hopeful words about their father. “Jeff says that it is by no means thought to be a desperate case with regard to the Flamborough Head, even now, and that persons are still found to insure her, though, of course, at a great premium Come, come, girls, cheer up ; I hope and trust that my old friend may come home to see his darlings yet.” “Hot all his darlings- — not the best of them,” moaned Kitty, wringing her little hands. “ I have no hope, Uncle George,” said Jenny, quietly. “ Well, well ; time will show, lass. My prayer is that your poor father may be restored to be your guide and protector. But if it please God to deny this, material matters will, on the other hand, be less untoward with you. His life is insured — though, singularly enough, I never knew it — in a Company of which I am a director, for five thousand pounds. The worst is, that some time may elapse before the proof arrives — that is ” “We understand,” interrupted Jenny, quietly, “ Mrs. Camp- den explained it.” “Yes, yes; and about Holt’s offer, and so on. Well, I have been thinking since that you might have some hesitation in accepting that. Kow, suppose a little arrangement should be entered into between you two and me, no one else knowing any- thing about it ; there would not be the same objection, would there ? Here are two hundred pounds — that would be enough, eh?” “ Oh, yes. Uncle George; but ” “ How, my dear Kitty, it’s a loan ; you need have no false pride in the matter.” “ But I am not sure that we shall want it, Uncle George — at least, not just at present. We shall live very, very quietly now ; shall we not, Jenny, you and I ? and as for Tony, he will soon bo off our hands. It is such an indescribable plea- sure to us to think that the poor boy will, for the next year or two, at all events, feel no disadvantage from his change of for- tune, since you have so kindly offered to send him to Eton.’* 292 FALLEN FORTUNES. “To Eton?” said Mr. Campden, reddening. “Yes; to be sure there was some talk of that. But Mrs. Campden was think- ing perhaps some other school — I mean in the boy’s own interest — might, under the circumstances, be more suitable.” “ Oh, dear ; I am so sorry ! ” said Kitty. “ Papa went away so pleased that Tony was to go to Eton ; and mamma — I think, somehow, dear mamma had set her heart upon it. Moreover, Uncle George, you promised it,” observed Kitty, gravely. “ Well, my dear, I believe I did, and I should like to do it still; but, the fact is, Mrs. Campden thinks However, no matter about that ; I promise you the boy shall go to as good a school as Eton.” “ Subject to what Mrs. Campden thinks.” “ Oh, Jenny, Jenny ! ” cried Kitty, reprovingly. Mr. Campden’s face turned from red to white. It was the first time either of the girls had seen Uncle George “ put out,” except by his wife. “You should not speak to your father’s friend like that, Jenny,” said he, severely. “It is not becoming in a young girl.” “ It is becoming in no one to break his word, and least of all because ” “Be quiet, Jenny ! ” cried her sister, with passionate plead- ing. “ How can you, can you talk so, when Uncle George has just been so kind ! ” “What Jenny says will make no difference as to that,” said the squire, coldly. “ The two hundred pounds are quite at your service.” “ But I am not sure that we shall want them. Uncle George,” said Kitty, timidly, and fiushing very much at the sight of Mr. Campden’s pocket-book. It held those very same notes which had been offered to John Dalton on the eve of his luckless departure from Biverside, and been declined. “ You will certainly want them, my dear,” said he ; “if not to-day, to-morrow. It is ridiculous to suppose that you can keep house — and pay unlooked-for expenses also — on your little income, without any hope of its being increased.” “ We have hope, Mr. Campden,” said Jenuy, slowly. “ And I, for my part at least, had rather not take ” “ You talk very foolishly, girl,” interrupted Mr. Campden, with irritation : “if you suppose you can earn your own living, you must be mad. I know you are thinking of your lace work ; but Lady Skipton was writing about it only the other day to /ENNY AT BAY, 293 Mrs. Campden, and assured her that, commercially speaking, it was valueless.” It was a cruel thing to say, even in anger, but the squire little knew what pain he was inflicting. The thought that her little private note to Lady Skipton, with its offer of the lace, had been made the subject of correspondence between her lady- ship and Mrs. Campden, was gall and wormwood to her. That woman ” must have known, then, that she had tried to sell her wares in Town, and had failed. “ It is not the lace at all, Mr. Campden, which I have in my mind,” said Jenny, speaking very firmly. “ What is it, then ? ” “ It is a secret. I cannot tell you what it is even if you pro- mised not to tell.” “ Jenny, you are insulting me,” “ No ; I am but telling the truth ; i hough, if I did insult you, it would be only what your wife did to us to-day, and has been doing every day since we were poor.” “ This is very sad,” said Mr. Campden, looking at Kitty. “Yes, it is,” continued Jenny, passionately; “ it is very sad to think that one’s friends should be so base. I say these things because I am angry; but Kitty thinks the same, though she does not say them.” “ There is some frightful mistake,” murmured Mr. Campden, helplessly. The alteration in his wife’s manner towards her late guests since their misfortune had by no means escaped him; but he had flattered himself that he alone had seen ik “A mistake!” cried Jenny, scornfully. “Yes, it is a mis- take, and very frightful, too, to insult people because they are poor ; to patronise them ; to endeavour to humiliate them by gifts at the expense of others. That, however, is what one must needs expect of some natures — women’s natures. But that a man — a man — should promise something to an old friend, and then, when that friend has been lost at sea, and his wife is dead, and his children desolate, should break his word, at the instiga- tion of another — that, I say, is base 1 " In her indignation and bitterness, Jenny had risen to her feet. If she had been a strong, big woman, red of face and loud of tongue, one might have set her down as a virago ; but being pale and wan, and speaking most musically all the while, although her words flowed like a torrent, it was impossible for a man to despise her wrath. cannot stay here to listen to these things,” Mr. 294 FALLEN FORTUNES. Campden, also rising from his seat. I came here, Heaven knows, without expecting any such scene — I wished to do you nothing but kindness, and I wish it still — Kitty.” “ I know it. Uncle George, and Jenny knows it,” sobbed poor Kitty ; only she was put out by the disappointment about Eton : not on her own account, of course, nor even on Tony’s, but because it was mamma’s wish that — that — and because to-day of all days ‘‘ Yes, yes ; I see,” said Mr. Campden, his kindly nature re- asserting itself ; “ it has been verj unfortunate. But don’t let us part ill friends.” Kitty’s answer was to throw her arms about his neck and cover him with tears and kisses. “Come, Jenny,” said he, “you will shake hands with Uncle George ? ” “Oh yes; I will shake hands with you — Mr. Campden; and I thank you for all your kindnesses in old times.” “ Well, the old times will come again, my girl, some day; and you will be sorry to have been so bitter with us at Riverside, and I should be sorry too — only I shall have forgotten it.” “ Ko, Mr. Campden ; you will not have forgotten it, thongh it is kind of you to say you will ; and the old times will never '* come back ; they are dead and gone.” The tears came into her large eyes, her voice trembled, her frail limbs gave way beneath her, and she would have fallen, but for Kitty’s protecting arm, which in a moment encircled her waist. “ Don’t speak, darling ; don’t worry yourself,” whispered Kitty ; “ Uncle George has not gone away angry ; there is no mischief done — at least I hope not. And I don’t blame you for what you said — no, not one bit.” Whosoever had deserted them, whomsoever they had lost, these two loving hearts were one, and the stronger for their intertwining. CHAPTER XXXVII. A LOVER DISMISSED. Although Kitty strove to comfort her sister all she could, she was herself filled, not indeed with sorrow for Jenny’s plain speaking, for that had her secret approbation, but with appre- hensions for the result of it. She felt that there ivas now a gulf between their late friends at Riverside and themselves, which it would require all her address to bridge oyer ; and they A LOVER DISMISSED, 295 were in such sore need of friends. And Jenny on her part was consumed with regret that she had distressed her sister. As to Mrs. Campden and Mary, she had washed her hands of them for good and all ; and even with respect to Uncle George — she could never think of him as Uncle George again ; he had shown himself weak beyond expression : whatever she had said (I am afraid she did not quite remember what she had said) fell short of bis deserts, and she did not repent it ; but she regretted having selfishly given way to her own impulses. She felt that others might be made to suffer for her audacity, who, unlike herself, would have preferred to be patronised, and humiliated, and laid under obligations, rather than starve. What right had she to indulge her passionate indignation at the expense of her sister, and poor Tony, and the uc conscious babe ? These bitter reflections occurred to her, as she lay upon her couch in the drawing-room, racked with pain, and trembling wdth the excitement of her late interview. Kitty had been summoned to the baby, and there was no one to interrupt her solitary thoughts. She .had not wept since she had seen her mother laid in her grave that morning ; the fountain of her tears was dry, and where it should have been, there was a fire that seemed to burn up her very brain. “ Where wns justice — for it was idle to talk of mercy — where was barest justice fled ? What had they all done to deserve so hard a fate ? Could not the merits of that late departed one win for her beloved children a spark even of hope ? (She had talked of hope to Mr. Campden, in a momentary spirit of pride, but she had, in fact, next to none.) Was there no such a thing as genuine friendship in the world ? friendship that would stand the test of “ Jenny ! ” “ My dear Jeff, how you frightened me ! ” cried she, holding out both hands. I thought you had gone home with the doctor.” “ What ! without having had one word alone with you and Kitty ? Ko ; I only w^aited till my betters had had their say.” “ You mean Mr. Campden ? ” ‘‘Yes, of course. But why speak of him in such a tone ? “ Oh, it’s a long story. I have been a little angry with him because he is rich and we are poor ; that’s all.” “ Well, but that was very wrong. I am going to be rich, some day.” “ ‘ Some day,’ my poor Jeff! ” 2Q6 FALLEN FORTUNES. “ ISTow, don’t call me ‘poor,’ whatever you call me,” returned be, smiling ; “ people in the City don’t like it. I was really in earnest, when I said ‘ some day and I mean some early date, proximo (you have no idea how classical we are in our business letters). I have not told a soul save yourself, but I should not be the least surprised if Holt was to make me his partner.” “ What for ? ” “ Well, that is scarcely complimentary, Jenny. How do you know that I have not exhibited a great commercial genius ? Seriously, however, it is because he finds I am an honest man — quite a lusus naturce, I assure you, in his particular line.” “ But you are not a man at all, Jeff ; though I must say you look very like one. How you are grown and filled out ! You have got to be quite good-looking ! and how becomingly you blush.” “ Yes ; that is why I am so valuable to Mr. Holt. If one cannot blush oneself, it is something to have a confidential clerk who blushes. Of course I was joking about a partner- ship, at least for the present ; but there is no calling in which a man can become rich early so easily as in ours. And, upon my word, I’ve hopes.” “ Ah, dear Jeff, how I envy you ! ” sighed Jenny. “ How I wish I could see any prospect of making a little money ! ” “ Well, well, don’t despair. Of course that depression in the lace-market — the unexpected alteration in the quotations — was very disappointing.” “ It was worse than that, Jeff. Can you imagine anything so base as that woman’s telling Mrs. Campden of my applica- tion, although I had put ‘ Private and Confidential ’ upon my little note to her ? ” “ I can very easily imagine it, my dear Jenny. I have wit- nessed too many delicate ‘ operations ’ — though not in lace — to be astonished at anybody’s baseness. However, you have an- other string to your bow, remember.” “ Oh, Jeff, have you any good news of that ? ” ‘ ‘ Hot at present ; but then there is no bad news.” “ Grood. I have been schooled to be thankful for small mer- cies. I shall ask no more questions. Here is Kitty ; perhaps you would like a word with her alone and Jenny was off in a moment. Kitty entered the room with a roll of flannel in her arms, which was the baby. “My dear Jeff, I can’t shake hands, you see. Oh, you A LOVER DISMISSED. 297 naughty boy ! ” For the young gentleman, since he could not shake hands, had saluted her with his lips. “ I thought that was what you meant, Kitty, said he, with simplicity. “ You thought nothing of the kind, sir ; and I am very angry with you ; or at least I should be, if I had the heart for it. How nice it was of you, dear J eff, to come so far for a single day, just to ” “Don’t talk like that, Kitty: your dear mother was the kindest friend I ever had or ever shall have ; and your poor father ” “ Oh, JeflP, do not speak of him as though all hope was gone ! ” “I did not intend to do so, Kitty; I only meant that he was to be pitied, as indeed he is.” “ Ah, if he only knew ! I scarcely venture to wish him to be alive, when I think, that if he is not, dear mamma and he may be even now together. I know not what to hope, nor even to pray, Jeff. Things are very, very bad with us ; and yet we are told that they will be so much worse.” “ Who says that ? ” said Jeff, with a flash of his black eyes. “ He was a brute, whoever he was.” “ Well, it was a lady, my dear Jeff*.” “ Let us say a woman, Kitty. I can guess who the person was. She told you that it was her duty to speak the whole truth, did she not ? We have people in the City who tell us the same, and who are not believed by anybody. If your father is dead, then of course things are bad indeed ; but even so, there is some one else, to whose care he confided you when he went away; a friend who will never desert you while life is in him.” “ Alas, he has already deserted us, Jeff; or rather, I am afraid we have seriously offended him.” “ I think you must be mistaken there, Kitty.” “ Ko, Jeff ; it happened this very day. You must not speak of it, because it would hurt Jenny. But I feel we can no longer count upon Uncle George — that was.” And Kitty stooped down over her unconscious burden, to hide her tears. “ But I don’t mean Uncle George at all,” answered the other, gravely. “ It was to another person that your father spoke these words when he left Riverside : ‘ Remember, you are their only protector now.’ Yes, it was to me, Geoffrey Derwent. I was a boy then, but those words made a man of me. They are en- graven on my heart ; so that no change nor time can ever erase them,” FALLEN FORTUNES, 298 Oh, Jeff, dear Jeff, did he say that ? ’’ ‘‘ Yes, darling ; and more than that (though I did not mean to tell you it for a long, long time ; till I should he in a better position to — to speak of such things) — v/hen he was going away — perhaps for ever — and my heart was full for his sake, I thought it would be wrong to — to keep it a secret from him ; and I told it, Kitty/^ She was sitting on the sofa, with her head bent over the child, so that he could not see her face, and that gave him courage ; though his voice trembled, and its tone was hoarse and low. “ I told him how I loved you, Kitty ; and — though I was but a boy, friendless and almost penniless — your father (God bless him for it !) was tender and gentle with me, seeing perhaps that I was speaking truth at all events. He promised nothing in- deed : how could he ? But he did not deny me. He said, when he came back, we two should speak together about that matter. That was not much, you may say \ but to me it was a great deal — for, Kitty, you are all in all to me. Don’t answer me yet; don’t treat me less kindly than your father did ; only promise that some day — years to come, if it must be so — that wq two may speak together about that matter. But if you have — other views ” — here the boy stopped, half-choked — “ then tell me now, at once. I shall never blame you ; I shall hope for your happiness with — with the man I am thinking of — in spite of hope.” She shook her head. ‘‘You are cruel, like the rest,” she murmured. “ I cruel ! and to you, Kitty ? ” sighed he. “ Oh no. What- ever seems good to you and right to you, will be sufficient for me. If you say ‘ Ho ’ — just ‘ Ho * to the question that my heart is asking, I will ask no other. You shall never be troubled by me this way again. The purpose of my life as respects you and yours will be just the same. I shall do all that in me lies for you, for Jenny, for Tony, for that poor little one who lies in your arms. I shall be always their Protector, if not their only one.” “ What is it you want me to say, Jeff ? ” said Kitty, suddenly. Her tears were no longer falling : she looked up at him without flinching, though her white face showed her pain. “ Can you ask me, Kitty ? It is the simplest of all questions : Do you love me ? ” “We all love you, Jeff.” A LOVER DISMISSED. 299 The boy made an impatient gesture. “ Yon are fencing with me, Kitty. Yes or no ? “I am not fencing, Jeff. I will frankly tell yon, that if I were my own mistress, without others depending upon my choice — others whose interests I am bound to consult before my own inclination — I might be foolish enough to say : ‘ Boy as yon are, I will trust your love, and some day entrust my happiness to your keeping.’ It would, perhaps, be folly in me, and cer- tainly an injustice to yourself, to say as much ; but you are so dear to me, Jeff, that I might have been tempted to do it. As matters stand, however, it is wholly out of the question. I might well say that on a day like this — the darkest in our lives, with the rustle of the earth upon our mother’s coflin-lid still ringing in my ears — your topic is ill chosen ; but I am willing to believe that your very love for my dead mother in a manner sanctifies your love for me, and excuses the expression of it. Let mo say rather, that neither to-day, nor for many days — nor perhaps for many years to come — is it likely that marriage will be in my thoughts at all. They will be occupied, dear Jeff, with very sober, very simple, and what most folks would call, with very ‘ uninteresting ’ things — the making both ends meet in a very humble household ; the feeding, and clothing, and teaching them. If they ever get pudding, it will be either Jenny or I who will have to cook it. I shall not probably have the time or the opportunity even to read about love in a novel, much more to make it. That is the programme of my future life, Jeff. It is not pleasant — it is no use pretending that it is — but I mean to make the best of it. Pray, don’t make it harder for me by saying any more.” “ I will not say a word more now, Kitty ” “That’s right,” interrupted she, quickly. “ It is close niDon the doctor’s dinner-hour, and you must not keep him waiting. I hope you wdll dine with ns the next time you come, and pass your opinion on our pudding. We shall be always — always glad to see yon, Jeff.” The baby was in her lap now, and she held out her hand for him to shake. Instead of doing so, he carried it slowly to his lips and kissed it. “ God bless you, Kitty ! ” he said. “ God bless you, Jeff! ” He looked so handsome, so honest, and so loving, that there was a struggle even in that self-sacrificing bosom to add some- thing more 5 but she did not, She heard him run downstairs, 300 FALLEN FORTUNES. and Jenny call out Jeff ! as lie passed, in vain, and Tony cry, “Jeff! Jeff! where are you going ? ’^ without reply; then the front door was opened and closed very quickly, but gently too, as though he who went forth had not, even in his haste, for- gotten it was the house of sorrow. Kitty moved to the window, but too late, because of her little burden ; there was nothing to be seen save the thickening dusk and the slow-falling rain. He had gone. When Jenny entered the room half an hour afterwards — she had been talking tenderly and gravely to Tony in her own chamber — she found Kitty at her mother’s desk. It had not been opened since her death, but now the neat little account- books and the memoranda of their scanty incomings, were all spread out upon the table, with already a note or two of Kitty’s own. Jenny took in the situation at a glance. “ Kitty ! ’’ cried she, with a burst of penitence, I have been very wrong. It is you who have the responsibility, and the trouble, and the care of us ; while I have only indulged my passion and my pride. If it is not too late — if the mischief I have done is not irreparable — pray, think no more of my opinion, of my prejudices. ’ “ Hush, hush, my darling ! You have done no harm, or at least nothing wrong, which is the greater matter.” “ You are an angel — you are like our mother,” answered Jenny, vehemently ; “ and I am unworthy to be your sister. Henceforward, I will never oppose what you think right. How is it with us, Kitty ? Are we very, very poor ? Will it be necessary — shall you ask Mr. Gampden for that money ? ” “ For some of it, darling, I am afraid we must.” “ And Mr. Holt ? We need not take that — that loan he offers, need we, Kitty ? at least, not yet — there may be brighter days.” “ Ko, dear ; we will not take Mr. Holt’s money. JSTo, no, no ! ” There was a calmness and decision in Kitty’s tone which were rare with her ; her face was very pale, and wore a set expression which was new to it. Jenny looked at her sister for a moment with wondering eyes, then rushed into her arms. “ Oh, Kitty, I am so glad, so glad ! ” she cried, bursting into tears. “ Dear Jeff will be dearer to me now than ever.” “ Be silent, Jenny, don’t speak of him ; I can’t bear it,” was the unexpected reply, delivered with strange vehemence. Then, in gentler but firui tones she added ; “ Forgive me, darling, but- KITTY'S DREAM. 301 you Have given me pain. You are wrong, quite wrong, in thinking — what you said. Here are the bills and the banker’s book ; let us look over the accounts together,” CHAPTER XXXVIII. kitty’s dream. That cynical phrase about “ not being able to afford to keep a con- science,” has a solid foundation in fact. There are some, indeed, who would rather perish than do anything contrary to their sense of what is right (though even that is a sacrifice which varies with the value men set on individual existence) ; there are as many more who would perish rather than endure a humiliation — who would take poison rather than swallow their pride. It is only the popular religion — a very diflierent thing from Christianity — that has made Death so terrible as to be weighed against shame ; but when it comes to the pinch, necessity, or what we choose to consider such, overrules the law of the mind. This is a matter upon which drawing-room philosophers and comfortable divines are no judges. It seems so easy — and is so easy — to be independent, chaste, and honest, when there is only a temptation to be otherwise ; but when the temptation becomes an alternative — on the one side, poverty, death, ruin, for example ; on the other hand, competence, not only for ourselves, but for those we love, that is quite another matter. Conscience has then a new antagonist, the first of his own laws ; a sense of right, almost as strong as himself, which, allying itself with these various opponents, generally succeeds in overthrowing him. That “ second thoughts are best,” among all lying proverbs, holds the pre-eminence ; second thoughts in morals are never best, but only, as it is natural they should be, second-best. John Dalton had so left his affairs, that, if he should now be dead and drowned, as it was almost certain he was, he had paid up his legal liabilities, as he imagined, to the last shilling. Even the scoundrels who had “ floated ” the Lara mine could never point to his children as the offspring of a defaulter. His shares would have been paid up in full to the last penny. But his efforts to effect this had left him impoverished indeed : all that his family had to live upon was the interest of some two or three thousand pounds, and a certain small sum which he had left for emergencies in his wife’s hands. Moreover, he had unhappily omitted to reckon a few outstanding debts, such as always attend 302 FALLEN FORTUNES. a rich man^s expenditure, almost unknown to himself, and which he generally settles with a sudden cfieque, and a malediction upon his own forgetfulness. The creditors were of that agree- able kind — may I instance one’s tobacconist ? — who do not plague us quarterly, nor even half-yearly, for one’s little ac- count ; but who, when we start upon a sudden for Brazil, and are likely not to come back again, get naturally nervous, and would like to see the colour of our money. When I said that Mrs. Dalton’s correspondence had much fallen off in number since the family misfortunes, I should have made honourable exception of these gentlemen, who had not failed to send in their bills to her with the remark that ‘‘an early settlement would oblige.” Of course, she had acceded to these requests — which, indeed, were only reasonable — but in so doing bad not left enough money behind her to defray her own funeral expenses. This was the conclusion that Kitty was compelled to arrive at, after a careful study of the financial position of the family. Jenny did her best to assist her in the investigation ; but she was not so good at figures, and chiefly confined herself to “approving” what her sister made of them, like any City director, except that she did not get five hundred a year for doing it. They had enough, they reckoned, to go on with in their humble fashion — especially as Lucy was leaving them — but, for the present, ready money was indispensable. Under these circumstances, there was nothing for it (even Jenny owned) but to apply to Mr. Campden for some portion of that loan which he had voluntarily placed at their disposal, and w'hich Kitty at least had certainly not unconditionally declined. She therefore dispatched a letter to the squire, very warmly and gratefully worded, but at the same time expressing herself as practically as she could with respect to the money itself. If her father should return to them, he would, of course, himself become responsible for the repayment of the loan ; and if God had willed it otherwise, the insurance he had effected on his life would enable his children to repay it. A few days ago she Avould certainly not have used so business-like a style in ad- dressing her correspondent ; but now — though without having adopted poor Jenny’s views — she was less inclined to wear her heart upon her sleeve, even to Uncle George. By return of post a letter came from Riverside in Mrs. Campden’s hand- writing. Kitty looked at the envelope with vague alarm. She had not put “ Private outside her note to the squire, though she had KlTTY^S DREAM. 303 felt herself inclined to do so ; and was it possible that her late hostess had opened it, and replied to it herself? She felt a flash rise to her cheek, for whatever had been her need, she would never have applied for aid to Mrs. Campden, nor even to her husband, had she thought he would have made his wife a confidante of the fact. He had given Kitty distinctly to un- derstand that the transaction would be a private one. The envelope was weighty, and contained, along with a pretty long communication, two five-pound notes. She had asked the squire for fifty. ‘‘Dear Kittv,^’ the letter began — “In the absence of Mr. Campden, who is in London, I took the liberty to open your note, thinking that it might require an immediate reply. Its contents have astonished me exceedingly. I am grieved not only upon your own account, but upon hers of whom you speak — for whose sake, as you would have me believe, you have thought proper to make your very singular application. I cannot think anything would have distressed your poor mother herself more than the step you have thus thought proper to take. Let us hope, in the sphere to which she has been re- moved by an all-wise Providence, that she is ignorant of the circumstance. What you have asked Mr. Campden is, in plain English, to give you fifty pounds. There is even an allusion io a larger sum, which it seems you have been trying to persuade him to promise you, or which he has promised you of his own head. To take advantage of my husband in such a matter is, as you must be well aware, Kitty, to take advantage of a child ; and it is my duty to protect him against any such attempts. However, I will confine myself to the fifty pounds. You speak hopefully, and I hope you have reason for your confidence, of your poor father's return home ; but if he does return, have you painted to yourself what will be his true position ? Have you — has anybody — the least cause to suppose that he will be in a condition to repay the debts of his family ? One of his best friends — and your best friend, if you will permit him to be so — has assured me that he has gone to Brazil in pursuit of a mere chimera ; that he will come back poorer, if that be pos- sible, than he went. “ Kow, Kitty, it is my bounden duty to speak plainly to you. It is this very carelessness of other people’s money that has brought your father to this pass. He gambled away first his own fortune, and then your mother’s ; and now he seems to 304 FALLEN FORTUNES. expect to use the money of his friends as though it was his own. I have good reasons for stating that he proposed to draw upon my poor husband — while abroad — as on his own banker ! You are doubtless shocked at this revelation ; yet, if you examine the matter, the difference between your present application and that most outrageous one is only in degree. Fifty pounds, a hundred pounds, two hundred pounds — so we go on when this terrible course has been once begun. You think, perhaps, my husband is made of money, and that it does not signify how much you ask. The money, my dear girl, is nothing indeed compared with the sacrifice of principle that would be involved if it were given you, and to which I, therefore, for one, would never consent. But even the money is something. Mr. Camp- den is no doubt what some people would call a rich man ; but rich people have calls of which poor people have no conception : he has his position in the county to keep up — an imperative duty — and a thousand other sources of expense, which you would hardly understand should I enumerate them. With respect to the expenses of the funeral, I have made inquiries, and considering the simplicity with which it was conducted, in accordance with your mother’s wish — and which does honour to her good sense — I find ten pounds will be ample, and I therefore enclose that sum. I am very glad to find that by frugality and care you will be able for the future to make both ends meet ; always live within your income, dear Kitty, and then, what- ever it may be, you may account yourself rich. “ I am sorry you did not accept my proposition with respect to the baby ; a home, however, will always await it at the lodge, should you alter what I must venture to call your ill-judged resolution. “ And this brings me, Kitty, to another subject, the import- ance of which must be my excuse for once more breaking it to you. Do you know what you are doing, and do you know whom you are ^ 67 ^doing in rejecting the advances of Mr. Holt ? From him a loan of fifty pounds, or of five hundred, could indeed be accepted with a good grace, and would be advanced with something more than alacrity. If ever there was an example of a girl’s ‘ sinning her chances,’ you, Kitty, are surely now affording it. What excuse can you possibly make to your- self for rejecting what I may almost call this gift of Providence, I cannot imagine. You may have your reasons ; but they are most certainly mere personal ones, and you must forgive me for adding, selfish ones. Do you reflect that it only rests with you KITTY'S DTE AM. 305 to give to your little household a natural protector ? (At present I do not see how it is possible for you to leave home even to go out as a governess.) Some men — nay, most men — would hesitate to marry a penniless girl surrounded by incumbrances ; but this man is one in a thousand ; and yet you treat him as if there was another such to be picked up any day and any- where — in Sanbeck, for example. However, I have said my say. “Mary sends you her best love; she is making up a little parcel of things which I hope will prove useful to you : a dress or two that she has outgrown, but which we think will just suit your figure ; and when the spring comes on, she will doubtless find other articles that you may make available. Always your sincere friend and well-wisher, “ Julia Campden. “ P.S. — I think it would be better that you should treat this note as private and confidential. Pray, consult your own good sense before replying to the contents of it. Jenny has doubtless many good points, but the state of her health must alone prevent her exercising a dispassionate judgment.” This letter was a terrible blow. There was nothing in it to give ground for absolute quarrel ; but Kitty felt that it hence- forth divided her and hers from the Riverside people, as by a great gulf. She even believed that it had been written with that express object; in which she probably did the writer wrong. A more acute woman than Mrs. Campden might, indeed, have expected to arouse some angry rejoinder, which would have given her a good excuse for breaking with her needy kinsfolk altogether ; but the mistress of Riverside saw nothing offensive in the letter she had composed. She meant to put her foot down with respect to any further attempt upon her husband’s purse ; and she used the opportunity, without scruple, of placing Kitty’s hopeless position before her, and of pointing out the one way of escape ; but she had no intention of deliberate insult. She had, nevertheless, the sagacity to understand that Jenny would view her letter as such, and hence she marked it “ private and confidential.” Though she had not hesitated to break the seal of a communication addressed to another, she gave her correspondent credit for more delicate scruples — and took advantage of them. The children of this world are not only wiser than the children of light, but they trade upon their simplicity. A rogue will often deny the existence of an honest man, to save his own credit, though well aware that he is FALLEN FORTUNES. 306 lying ; but wben lie Las found one, he will use his honesty for his own purposes. Kitty, too, was well aware that Jenny would have at once designated the writer of such a communication as dishonour- able, mean, cruel, and a number of other perhaps not v\^holly in- applicable adjectives. The gift of the cast-off raiment would have been especially offensive to her. Whereas Kitty, in her humility, and her consideration for those committed to her trust, was resolved not to take offence, even if it had been pur- posely offered to her. It was unnecessary upon Mrs. Campden’s part to have been so energetic against any future application to her husband. Nothing, nothing would have henceforth induced her to ask help of Uncle George. If the worst came to the worst, she would rather sell herself, as this woman was urging her to do, to Kichard Holt. It would be horrible, it would be shameful ; but the humiliation could not be deeper, and the advantage to others would be great and certain. If those two five-pound notes had been the wages of shame, she could hardly have regarded them with more intense loathing. Her fingers closed upon them fiercely, savagely ; she longed to tear them to pieces ; most of ail, she craved to return them, with a few civil but cutting words. That money, she felt, was as much given to her out of charity — and that a charity which had no love in it — as the cast-off clothes which were to follow. She felt like a beggar (though she had never been one) who has been refased the alms he asked, and has had a crust of bread flung at him instead. If she could only have done without the crust, and have flung it back to the giver ! There was one way which would, she knew, have Jenny’s hearty concurrence, namely, that they should sell some article of furniture in Bleabarrow, and pay the undertaker’s bill with the proceeds. But Kitty, always just, rejected that such a course would excite country gossip, and bring great discredit upon the squire, who was not answer- able for his wife’s actions, and indeed hardly for his own. Another alternative was to borrow the money of Hr. Curzon. But they surely had had enough, of borrowing — or rather of the attempt to borrow; and, moreover, they already owed the doctor for many a professional visit. No ; Kitty felt she must take these two five-pound notes, and acknowledge their receipt with words of thanks. She had retired to her own room to read the letter, directly she had recognised Mrs. Campden’s handwriting, and now she meant to destroy it before she saw Jenny ; so that she could KITTY'S DREAM, 307 honestly say I have it not/’ if her sister asked to read it. But hearing Jenny’s knock at the door, she thrust the letter with its enclosure into her pocket, and rose to meet her. “Well, Kitty, what news? I need scarcely ask, however; I can read it reflected in your flushed face. From a reason over which he has no control — if you can call his wife ‘ a reason’ — Mr. Campden cannot keep his promise.” “ My dear Jenny, you said you wouldn’t ” “ I said I wouldn't interfere with what you resolved upon. I may surely flatter my own foresight by ‘ spotting,’ as Jeff calls it, these good people beforehand. The squire is weak as water : he would if he could, he says, but he can’t.” “ He says nothing of the kind, Jenny. The letter does not come from him at all, but from Mrs. Campden. She opened my note, it seems, in his absence.” Jenny smiled. “ What luck she must have thought it ! I can imagine her gloating over a letter meant for somebody else.” “ Oh Jenny ! ” cried Kitty, reprovingly. The thought crossed her mind: “What a strange bitterness possesses my dear sister I Three months ago — nay, ten days since, while our mother was yet alive — such sentiments would never have found harbour within her, far less expression.” “ Well,” continued Jenny, “ of course she will not let her husband lend us the money, ‘ as a matter of principle.’ ” “ It is something like that,” said Kitty, reluctantly. “She has sent us, however, ten pounds, which will, I hope, be sufficient.” “ I am glad it was no more,” said Jenny, “ for two reasons : first, because it corroborates my view of her ; secondly But never mind ‘ secondly ’ for the present. Well, what else did she say, besides hov/ fond she was of us, and how it was all for our ov/n good ? May I see the letter ?” “ It is marked private and confidential.” “ That was foolish of her, because I now know what it was about. You do not wish, I suppose, dear, to talk upon the subject ?” “ Ko, Jenny ; because it would be of no use.” “But you have not made up your mind ? ” cried Jenny, eagerly. “ Before you do that, I must speak to you, darling ; I must, I must ! ” “ Ko, dear ; I have made up my mind to nothing — except that w’^e must take these ten pounds.” 3o8 FALLEN FORTUNES. ‘‘Was there no message from Mary — dear Mary, who used to hang about your neck so lovingly but a ipw weeks ago ? ” “Well, no; nothing particular. She is going to send us some things that her mother thinks may be useful to us.” “ What things?” cried Jenny, contemptuously. “A pot of marmalade ; some shilling novels ; a yard of flannel — such as they send to the hospitals.” “ There may be some flannel,” said Kitty, quietly. “ Oh, I see : old clothes that are too fine for the lady’s-maid. We are in the first stage of our descent, my dear ; they will fend us next year old clothes that are not fine enough for her. For my part, I always thought Mary a humbug.” “ Don’t say that, Jenny ; she is not strong, that is all. You might just as well say half the world are humbugs.” “ Half the world ! I say nine hundred and ninety-nine hun- dredths of them are so ! What saith the Scripture : ‘ One man out of a thousand have I known’ — there is Jeff, for example, and there’s the doctor — but ‘ one woman in a thousand I have not known.’ Or, at all events, she is not Mary Campden.” To this outburst, Kitty replied nothing; and further ques- tioning upon Jenny’s part was put a stop to by the entrance of Tony in a wild state of excitement. Something had come for him “registered” by the post ; he had met the postman in the village, and gone back to the office to sign for it ; and what did they think it was ! They would never guess if they guessed for ever : it was a watch and chain ; a beautiful gold watch and chain ! “ Why, Tony, who could have sent it ? ” cried Jenny, de- lighted at the lad’s delight ; then the joy faded out of her face, and she looked at Kitty, whose cheeks had become crimson. “ Well, I don’t know,” cried Tony. “ I should have thought it was Jeff, only dear old Jeff could never have The post-mark was Cornhill, too, and he said Mr. Holt’s office was close by Cornhill.” “ It came from Mr. Holt,” said Jenny ; “ I know his hand- writing. We must send it back again.” “ Send it back ? ” cried Tony, growing very red in his turn. “ Why should I send it back ? I think it was very kind of him. He has always been very civil to me ; and every fellow has a watch who goes to Eton.” “ I don’t think we can send it back, Jenny,” said Kitty, gravely. “ It is sent to Tony, you see.” “ Yes ; that is so mean of him,” answered Jenny, stamping KlTTY^S DREAM. her little foot. “ He knew there would be a diflficultj about returning it.’* “ It would be exceedingly rude to return it, just because you don*fc like him,” said Tony, confidently. “ If you did, you may depend on it, he would never send me anything again. See here ; when you touch this button, the back opens, and there are the wheels and things. My dear Kitty, what are you at ? Jenny, Kitty is crying into my watch-works.” And indeed, while endeavouring to be interested in Tony’s treasure, poor Kitty had not been able to restrain a tear. She laughed the matter off, however, in an hysterical sort of way, and before the afternoon post went, had helped Tony with his letter of thanks to the sender : his tutor and literary adviser in ordinary, Jenny, having flatly refused to have anything to do with it. It gave Kitty a pang, we may be sure ; but since the present was to be accepted, it was needful that it should be duly acknowledged. That watch and its works cost her more than it cost the buyer ; it haunted her thoughts all that day, and even her dreams at night. This is what she dreamed : She was in a room full of figures like those at Madame Tussaud’s, except that they all moved by machinery. There was her dead mother looking at her with pitying eyes ; and her lost father, with changed, remorseful face, his hnir and clothes all wet. These and many others revolved slowly around her at some dis- tance, but none approached her. She herself was borne slowly but irresistibly forward towards a figure with outstretched arms. It was Richard Holt. His chest was bare, and where his heart should have been, she saw toothed wheels at work, all gold ; just as she had seen in Tony’s watch, only larger. She heard them moving and clicking with a harsh monotonous noise, louder and louder as she drew nigh. Then, as she came quite close, the arms — a picture she had seen in a “ History of the Inquisition ” at home no doubt suggested this — suddenly shot out knives and daggers, and were just about to enfold her, when with a shrill scream she woke. FALLEN FORTUNES. 31Q CHAPTER XXXIX. AN AUTHOR AND HIS EDITOR. About halfway between the Bank of England and Basinghall Street* — a position somewhat typical of many of its tenants — lies Abdell Lane. A street so narrow, although the houses are but three-storied, that in the sunniest days it is always dim and cool, except at noontide ; while throughout the winter and half the spring, the inhabitants pursue their avocations solely by arti- ficial light. Their callings are various ; and in many cases would be difficult to explain to the public satisfaction ; and yet they have some right to be called respectable, since a rent of about two hundred pounds per annum is paid per room. Off Abdell Lane lies Abdell Court, connected with the larger thoroughfare by a huge arch (itself honeycombed by human tenements), through which the astonished passenger comes upon a tree, a pump, and a paved yard, in which for hours at certain seasons the sun is distinctly visible. The rents are higher here than in the lane, although the place is only approachable by foot-pas- sengers. In fact, that is a circumstance which is a ground of boast to its residents, since it shows that the commercial element (in the shop form) does not intrude itself. On the side of each door are painted in black and white the names of each occupant, as in Lincoln’s Inn and the Temple ; but there are no lawyers in Abdell Court. They are chietiy brokers, with a good sprink- ling of that mysterious class of gentry called “ financial agents.” Unpromising as the material soil appeared, the seed of many a goodly mercantile tree had been dropped in Abdell Court, to grow and grow, and to bear golden fruit ; also other trees, quite as promising, but which, never coming to maturity, are by many contumeliously termed “plants.” On the ground-floor of one of these houses there sits, in what might be called by contrast with its congeners, quite a spacious apartment, a gentleman with whom we have made acquaintance under other circumstances. Black and grey are* now his only wear, but the neatness and completeness of Mr. Holt’s attire is almost as remarkable as it was at Riverside. Perhaps it is the effect of that sombre dress, but he certainly looks paler and older than when we saw him last : the hair about his temples has thinned, and the lines about his mouth have deepened ; if we did not know that his invest- * In this street is situated the Court of Bankruptcy. AN AUTHOR AND HIS EDITOR, ments ^ire always made with sagacity, and have never given him cause to lose a wink of sleep, we should call his expression care- worn. He has an open ledger before him, and a pen in his hand ; yet he is not engaged in calculation. A letter, in a large, round, and rather sprawling hand, lies on the page beneath his eyes, and he is conning it attentively. ‘‘Dear Mr. Holt,’’ it runs — “I cannot say how mnch I am obliged to you for your beautiful present ; the watch is much too handsome, I am afraid, for a boy like me, but I will try to take great care of it. I have just found out that it strikes the hours and the quarters. We have been in great trouble, as Jeff will have doubtless told you ; but my sisters are pretty well in health, and beg to be remembered to you. — I am yours truly and obliged, “ Anthony Dalton. “ P.S. — Please give my love to Jeff.” Mr. Holt had read this somewhat bald epistle half-a-dozen times, and yet was as interested in it as ever. “It is cleverly written,” he muttered to himself; “but it is not all one piece. ‘ Much too handsome,’ and ‘ Will try to take great care ’ — that is not the boy’s. I wonder which of the girls helped him with it ? ‘ Jeff will have told you ; ’ that is like Jenny’s touch. She pretends to believe that I only hear of their welfare through Derwent; and then, again, ‘ Grive my love to Jeff,’ sounds like her sharp tongue. She writes that to annoy me. But then she would never have made him say that they begged to be remem- bered to me. I am sure that’s Kitty ; dear, delicious, tender- hearfed Kitty ! ” He heaved a deep sigh, and stroked his forehead with his hands. “ How nearly I lost her ! ” he went on softly to himself. “ If things had not gone just as they have, she would be by this time out of my reach. What a frightful risk did that madman make me run ! ” He rose from his seat, and pulling down the window, although the day was bitterly cold, stood facing the draught. “ Two months, three months, four months, and not a scrap of news of the ship. All must surely be safe now. The very stars in their courses have fought for me. However, it is the very last boon that I will ever ask of Fortune; hereafter, I am independent of her. If I were bankrupt to-morrow my books would be a model. There is not a flaw from first to last. If it had happened otherwise, I wonder if I could have weathered the storm? With the World, perhaps, but with him never. He would have been implacable, unmerciful. It would have been V PALLEN FOP TUNES. 31^ no wonder, poor devil. And she — yes, slie wonld have loathed, me. I can understand now how it is that men who cannot possess those they love, are driven to kill them ; as to killing themselves, that is the most natural thing in the world ; and next to that — yes, I can understand it.’^ Besides the usual almanack in its frame, and one or two plans of estates in the West Indies and elsewhere, there were several huge maps hung up in the room, to one of which he now directed his attention. This was a map of South America, showing a great deal of the ocean that lies between us and it, with the track of steamers marked out upon it. He had done so many a time before, and he now again took his pen, and with the handle of it traced out the course. So engaged was he in this occupa- tion, that he did not notice a knock at his door, nor the entrance of a visitor, until his voice — a rich, unctuous, and somewhat boastful voice — announced his presence. “ Hollo, Holt ; how are you ? Studying a sea-chart, eh ? That looks dangerous for somebody, since you are a shipowner.” “ Yes,” answered the other, coolly ; “ I was trying to fix upon the most convenient spot for scuttling a craft.” “ Well, begad ! you looked as if you really were when you first caught sight of me. South America, eh ? Brazil, I suppose ? Mines, for a hundred ! ” “You are always right as a rule, Hawkins ; and since this particular case happens to be the exception, that proves it. My mind was not fixed on the land at all, but on the sea. I was wondering whether, by any possibility, the Flamborough Head could be still above water.” “ I’ll bet you ten to one against it ; come. I’ll bet you twenty. You have not underwritten her, have you ? ” “ Hot I. I was not thinking of the vessel at all, but of a poor fellow who sailed in her, John Dalton.” “ Oh, indeed. Friend of yours, I remember. Well, I shall say nothing against him, then. But of all the overbearing, in- solent fellows I ever met — without a penny to bless himself, too — he was about the worst. By jingo ! you should have heard what, he said to Lady Beevor, in my own house, under my own roof. We all thought he was off his head.” “ Yet he was a general favourite, and thought very agreeable,” observed Holt. “ Agreeable ? Then I don’t know what it is to be agreeable.” “ Possibly,” said the other, dryly ; “or perhaps you annoyed him. If Dalton was rubbed the wrong way, you saw sparks.” AN AUTHOR AND HIS EDITOR, 313 ** Sparks, begad ! It was a general conflagration. Lady Beevor has never forgiven my asking him to meet her. It would have been a liberty in Rothschild ; but for a ruined man ! For it was after he was ruined, in that Lara mine. Curiously enough, I came to talk to you about that very thing. You never had anything in it yourself, I believe ? ” “ Why do you say that, my good sir, when you know I liad “ Well, well, don’t snap my nose off. It was a piece of deli- cacy on my part, because I knew you plumed yourself on never being connected with anything shady.” Oh, I see. Why didn’t you say you were going to be delicate ? I could scarcely come to that conclusion from analogy.” “ I don’t know about analogy,” said Mr. Dawkins, frankly. “ I came here on business. There are people still inquiring about that Mine, I hear.” “ Indeed ? Do you want to buy any shares ? They are not quoted, but they can be got cheap — except for the liability they entail.” “ Well, no ; I don’t exactly want to buy any — myself. But, do you know ” — here he dropped his voice to a whisper — “Beevor does not think so badly of them.” “ So badly of them as what ? ” answered Holt, contemptuously. “If he thought well of them, why didn’t he buy some of Dalton’s ? He had an opportunity, you tell me ; and Dalton, poor fellow, would have been only too glad to sell. You know what everybody else knows, I suppose, about the Lara f ” “ Yes ; but there’s that fellow Tobbit, the expert ” Mr. Holt made a sign for silence, and touched a hand-bell. There entered a handsome young fellow from the next apart- ment, where, indeed, he could have been seen sitting at his desk, throughout this interview, through the glass door which communicated between the two rooms. “ Mr. Derwent, you can take an hour, if you please ; I shall be here myself till three.” “Thank you, sir.” The young man was about to leave the room, when his eye fell on Tony’s letter ; the colour came into his face, and he hesitated, as though about to ask a question. “I had news of our friends in Sanbeck, by-the-bye, this morning,” observed Holt, carelessly ; “ they desired to be re- membered to you.” Jeff bowed, and passed into the inner room, from which another door communicated with the passage. Not until he 314 I^ALLEN FORTUNES. was seen from the window crossing the courtyard did Mr. Dawkins speak again. “ You have a new clerk, I see, Holt. He has an honest face; bub he is deuced young to be trusted.” “ Yes ; but I don’t trust him.” “ Oh, I see. Some relative, I suppose ? Comes from the country, I think you said ? ” “ I didn’t say so ; but he does.” “ Do you think he heard me mention Dalton’s name ? ‘‘ JSTo ; and if he did, it would make no difference. I only sent him out because I had no occasion for his services just now, and I know the lad pines for the open air. His life has been passed in it.” “ That is very considerate of you. Where do you think he is gone ? to Primrose Hill ? ” Some people have no resources in themselves : Mr. Dawkins was not one of these. He could even laugh by himself — at a joke of his own making — and he did it now. ‘‘ My dear Holt, what a deep card you are ! ” said he, ad- miringly. “ It is a wise man who has a fool for his clerk.” Then he proceeded to business. It does not concern us to know how these two gentlemen discussed the character of Mr. Tobbit, the great mining expert, or to what conclusion they came ; let it suffice to say that Mr. Dawkins departed from Abdell Court convinced, despite the opinion of his millionaire friend, that speculation in Laras would be unprofitable. Let us rather follow the footsteps of Greoffrey Derwent during his hour’s holiday. It was not the first by many that his em- ployer had given him during the wearisome days he had passed in his new calling ; he had really shown the consideration to him which Mr. Dawkins had suggested in irony, and had treated liirn with marked politeness at all times. Moreover, he had given him an insight into business affairs, for which Geoffrey was more grateful than for all else. It gave him hopes of making his own way in the world, when he came of age, and the slender fortune should accrue to him of which Mr. Campden was the trustee. It was even possible, he thought, that the money might be advanced to him by his good-natured guardian before that period. It is amazing how far a good introduction, backed by tolerable v*dts and a little money, will go in certain City callings which (like the ham in the sandwich) lie between the Commercial and the Professional, and yet belong by rights to neither. Notwithstanding his speech to Mr. Dawkins, Mr. Holt AN AUTHOR AND HIS EDITOR. 31S did put trust in Geoffrey, for he had found out that the young fellow could hold his tongue ; and, as he never confided to him anything discreditable, it was fair to suppose that the business of Holt and Company, though certainly of a heterogeneous description, was hona fide and respectable. Indeed, as Jeff reflected, how could it have been otherwise, since Mr. Dalton had been (as he understood) in some measure connected with it ? nay, still more, had not Mrs. Dalton herself recommended him to his present employer ? • This fact alone had really given Jeff* a certain respect for Mr. Holt, which, as we have seen, he had been far from entertaining at Riverside ; and, being very sensitive to kindness, this feeling would, in any other case under the same circumstances, have grown to be regard ; but it is quite possible to respect people without liking them — indeed, it is almost as common as to like them without respecting them — and Jeff* disliked his employer very cordially. He would work for him faithfully, and consult his interests as though they were his own. But he could not return goodwill for what he felt was only a pretence of it. Every act of civility of his employer he, in fact, more or less resented, since he was well aware that he w'as indebted for it to Kate Dalton. He knew that the other calculated upon his telling the truth concerning his life in Abdell Court, and was resolved that he should have nothing but good to tell. He was not even afraid of that pretty con- stant correspondence that he must have been aware went on between his enemy Jenny and his young assistant. There was security in Jeff’s honesty, equal to any guarantee that could be got with sign and seal in the neighbourhood of Abdell Court. Holt had not been sorry that his one invitation to Jeff* to dine with him at his club had been respectfully declined, upon the transparent pretence of a previous engagement ; business rela- tions run comparatively easy even when folks are not en rapport with one another, but social intercourse is more difficult to be maintained. Mr. Holt had never so much as inquired where Jeff’s lodgings were, and Jeff was not likely to volunteer the in- formation : they .were two very small rooms, in a suburb of Islington, which had been recommended to him, through Mrs. Dalton, by Mrs. Haywood. They were cheap and clean, and he v»muld be able to see green fields from them when the spring came. In spite of his ardour for work, and for “ getting on,” which was immense, he pined for the country, even in these winter days. But on the occasion of which we speak — >his hour’s holiday — he did not go, as was suggested, to Primrose FALLEN FORTUNES. 3*6 Hill ; lie bent bis steps to a spot wbicb puts forth leaves at every season, Paternoster Row. What would Mr. Dawkins have thought of liis friend’s sagacity, had he guessed he em- ployed a clerk who was not only a fool, but an author ! Yet so it must be, since Jelf enters an establishment over which is written, “Office of ‘ The Smellfungus Magazine,’” and, passing through the outer apartment, which coarse minds would call a book-shop, knocks at a little door inscribed “ Editor’s Room.” It is that knock which betrays him to us ; any would-be contri- butor might have gone so far as to knock — but not like that. The knock of a would-be contributor, especially one of tender years, is a very modest one ; it sounds like that of a poor rela- tion, or of a little child who cannot reach the knocker except with the tips of his fingers. Now, Jeff’s summons, given sharply with the knob of his umbrella, was the knock of an ac- cepted contributor, and something more : of a contributor who hasn’t been paid. Pie did not even wait for the answering “ Come in,” but entered at once. “ The City ” — whose motto, like that of poor Dalton’s travelling companion, is “ Push ” — had already done a great deal for Jeff. Besides, he was still in some respects that most audacious and irreverent thing in nature, a boy. We have at present only seen him in the society of ladies, or of his natural guardian, or of his employer ; but with the world at large Mr. Geoffrey Derwent was something more than at his ease. When he suspected that anyone was imposing upon him, he was particularly free-spoken, to the verge of rudeness. He had not the modest and retiring manners which good and charitable people are accustomed to attribute to literary geniuses when discovered young. It must be owned that there was little in the sanctum into which Jeff thus impetuously intruded to excite veneration. It was a little stuffy room, lit by a skylight, and boasting of no other furniture than a bookcase, filled with volumes of “ The Smell- fungus Magazine,” a table, and two chairs ; but in one of these two chairs was a Being who ought to have commanded respect, for he was an Editor. A small, plump man, of cheerful aspect, whiskerless and bald, he presented the appearance of one who had been endeavouring to get rid of all his hair for five-and- forty years, and had triumphantly succeeded. He so beamed with blandness and good-nature that it was like being at Brighton, or standing in front of one of Mr. Dyce’s pictures, to look at him ; you felt you wanted shade. AN AUTHOR AND HIS EDITOR. 3*7 ‘‘ How are yon, Mr. Derwent ? Deliglited to see you,” said he, holding out a podgy hand, and pressing Jeff’s with fervency. “ I have just been correcting your proof for next month’s number. I never saw so rapid an improvement in so young a writer — it’s marvellous.” “ Yes ; I thought that second one would fetch you, myself,” said Jeff, coolly. “Fetch me ? Oh, I see ! Well, the quaintness of the matter of course goes for something. But, as I said to you before, I cannot but think that the mind which could grasp the salient points of so dry a theme — could so clothe dry bones with flesh and blood — might essay something original.” “ The mind has done it,” observed Jeff*, dryly, producing a manuscript from his pocket. “ Here is a story of old times : local colouring, archaeological details, spirit of chivalry ; in short, the whole boiling.” “ The whole Oh, I see ! You mean it is all redolent of antiquity. Found in a chest, I hope, as I suggested, with a few words of introduction to explain the circumstance. Good ; and stated, I perceive, with great frankness and simplicity. You find it easy to be frank, Mr. Derwent, I daresay ? ” “ My nature, Mr. Sanders,” observed Jeff, indifferently. “ Yes. Now, what astonishes me in your writing is its ob- jectiveness.” “ Ah ! that astonishes myself,” said Jeff, with a little yawn. There was a long pause. “ Why, bless my soul,” said the editor, whose face was now invisible behind the manuscript, “ this is a satire ! ” “ I should rather think it was,” replied Jeff, “ and a deucedly good satire too.” “Eh ! ” Mr. Sanders looked over the top of the manuscript at Jeff. The young gentleman’s face was imperturbable ; he was tapping his right boot with his umbrella. “ This is most extraordinary,” murmured the editor. “ That is quite my idea of it,” observed the other. “ I never wrote anything half so good before.” “ I was not referring to the manuscript,” rejoined Mr. San- ders, blandly; “that is good, no doubt — in its way. But satires are scarcely quite the sort of thing for ‘The Smellfungus Magazine.’ ” “ I didn’t mean it for the ‘ Smellfungus,’ ” cried Jeff. “Eh ! what ?” The editor looked up again, but Jeff was only tapping his other boot. 3i8 FALLEN FORTUNES, “ This is not for you. This is to go to some magazine that pays. Pray, don’t be angry, my dear sir ; I am aware that your magazine is solvent — I mean, that pays its contributors.” “ Now, this is hard,” said Mr. Sanders, looking at his book- shelves for sympathy; “for it was I who brought this young man out — correct me, if I *am mistaken, Mr. Derwent, but I think I was the first — as editor of ‘ The Smellfungus Maga- zine’ ” “And proprietor,” interrupted Jeff. “That is where the shoe pinches. The literary side of your character is perfection ; it is the financial side which is in fault. I have never seen the colour of your money.” “ So young,” murmured Mr. Sanders, “ and yet so grasping ; this is quite a revelation to me.” “Very good,” said. Jeff; “I shall make no extra charge on that account, but I must have twenty pounds for the story.” “ Youth is sanguine,” observed Mr. Sanders ; “ and likewise full of high spirits. You must be joking.” But Jeff only looked in the fire, and repeated, Twenty pounds.” “ Well, I’ll tell you wliat,^’ said Mr. Sanders, clapping his knee, like a man who has resolved to do something regard- less of expense — “ V]l’tell you ivluit. In consideration of the two papers I have had for nothing, added to the cost of this story — for there must be no doubt for the future about the market value of such articles — I will give you live pounds. But it must be understood that you give ‘The Smellfungus’ the refusal of your next work, and at the same proportionate price.” “ I’ll take the five pounds,” said Jeff, after a little pause, “on account. Or, look here : pay me ten pounds down, and you shall have the story.” The deft celerity with which Mr. Sanders produced his cheque-book, filled in a cheque, and also a receipt upon stamped paper, wms quite pleasant to see. “ Short accounts make long friends,” said he, cheerfully. “And now, my dear sir, that business is over, let me congratulate }oa on having permanently joined the staff of ‘ The Smellfungus.’ I see before you a great — or at least a considerable future. You have the art — a very rare one — of making dry details palatable ; of putting fire into old- wmrld facts. All you want are materials. You must come and dwell ill the shadow of the British Museum.” “ I live at Islington,” observed Jeff, simpty. THE EXODUS. 319 Then yon mnsfc come by the ’bus to Bloomsbury. The British Museum has been bequeathed to you by the nation to furnish you with facts for ‘ The Smellfungus Magazine.’ ” “ Very good,” said Jeff. “ I will accept the legacy.” “ It is wonderful to me how — out at Islington — you can have procured such materials as you have done. However, the whole affair is remarkable : that at your time of life your taste should lead you to grasp these details of the past ” “So young, so grasping,” interrupted Jeff. “Well, I must be off now. Ta-ta.” “Good-bye, my young friend, good-bye,” said Mr. Sanders, impressively. Then softly repeated to himself: “Ta-ta. He said Ta-ta. That lad is a phenomenon. Antiquarianism is a passion with him, and yet how he talks ! I wonder whether Chatterton talked like that ? He reminds me very much of Chatterton — in some respects.” CHAPTER XL. THE EXODUS. When an overwhelming grief befalls us, it seems for a moment, even to the humblest, to dwarf all other cares. It is only the rich, however, who can afford to indulge it. With the poor, the next day, or the day after, some miserable need pushes divine Sorrow from her stool, and compels attention. Even Kate Dalton, whose sense of duty was so strong, and whose consciousness of responsibility so keen, had in the anguish of her loss underrated the more sordid troubles that were awaiting her. The cold touch of Death had numbed her somewhat to the meaner pain. But though the w" eight of sorrow still op- pressed her solely, she now began to feel the other burdens that pressed upon her. Lucy was gone, her wages paid to the last farthing, and her fare to towm — but without any present such as her young mistress yearned to make her ; and her loss was felt, but not in gain. One mouth the less to feed made but small difference in the household expenses, already reduced to the most economical figure. Do what she could, Kitty found her little income did but just keep pace with her outgoings. And there were still some debts. Dr. Curzon’s bill — which must have grown to be a pretty long one by this time — had not yet been sent in ; and Kitty dared not ask for it. Yet it seemed to her shocking, and almost sacrilegious, that what was due for medical attendance on her poor mother in those later 320 FALLEN FORTUNES, weeks, as well as on Jenny, should not be settled. The parcel of cast-off raiment had come from Riverside, and Kitty had humbly arrayed herself in one of Mary’s dresses. It was nothing more, she had said to herself, than hundreds of well- born and well-bred girls, who are not rich, are wont to do. “ You will not be offended if I send you baby’s pelisse, who has grown out of all knowledge,” is a very usual thing for one mother to write to another who is her friend or relative, but happens not to be so rich in this world’s goods. It is as common as Dick’s old clothes being “ cut up” for his brother Jack. And it is the same, or almost the same, with other garments. Yet somehow Kitty felt it. The change from complete equality with her cousin to this state of dependence, obligation, subordination — there was no actual term for it — had been too sudden for it to be accepted yet as a matter of course. Jenny, who had been reading about “ doles ” in her old books, used to speak of these gratuitous garments as “ the Riverside dole,” and could not be persuaded to make use of them. Some of the furniture from Cardigan Place had come packed in sack- ing; and “When my clothes are worn out, Margate and I are going to set to work at dressmaking with she said. “ Mrs. Campden will like to see me in sackcloth, I know ; and it will no doubt be very becoming.” But neither Kitty’s meekness nor Jenny’s mock-humility availed them in a financial point of view, even though the former affected a distaste for butcher-meat — which was essential for her delicate sister — and took to eating bread and cheese. One afternoon Mrs. Campden drove over to the Kook, and found their little dining -table spread with one chop for Jenny, and the loaf and cheese. Tony, as often happened now, had been asked to dine by the good doctor. “ Cheese is very bad for you, Kitty,” said she, taking in the situation at a glance; “and I am afraid you will find it false economy.” “ It agrees with me very well, I thank you,” said Kitty, with the nearest approach to bitterness that her gentle nature had ever shown. “ Well, I am glad of that ; but I think a good dinner would be an excellent thing for you. If you will come home with me to-day — you and Jenny — I will send you back at night. Mary is away at the Skiptons’, in Eaton Square, as you know, but Mr. Campden and I will do our best to make the evening pass agreeably.” The exodus, 321 1 don^fc like to leare baby for so many hours, thank you,’* said Kitty. “Very well; then I won’t ask Jenny to come alone, because I know she hates to be separated from you.” “ Quite right,” said Jenny ; ‘‘ I do.” It was astonishing, as Mrs. Campden afterwards observed, how soon that girl had lost her manners. Some folks were always independent of mere position in that respect, but Jenny was evidently the creature of circumstances. It was only her being in ill-health that had made people imagine her to have delicate susceptibilities and so forth. Her good-breeding had been in reality but skin-deep. If Mrs. Campden, however, was severe on Jenny, she was very gracious to Kitty. “ Ah, my dear, Mary writes that Eaton Square with Leonora Skipton is not to compare with Cardigan Place and Cousin Kitty. She sticks to old friends, I promise you. I have said my say, you know, about the matter ; but you can hardly imagine how Mary clings to the hope of seeing you resume your proper place in the world.” To this Kitty replied nothing ; and presently Mrs. Campden took her leave, upon the whole well satisfied with her recon- naissance. “That bread-and- cheese business can’t last for ever,” said she to herself. “ Miss Kate will soon come round to common sense, or else I am much mistaken.” And she wrote a letter to Mr. Holt that very night, bidding him be of good cheer, for that matters were working in the right direction. She had been a matchmaker — having had little else to do — all her life, but she had never entered into any matrimonial plot with such gusto as in this case. The day when she saw Kitty Mrs. Holt, and on which she would be able to say “ That girl owes it all to me,” would indeed be a proud one to her. And she saw it now at no great distance. Her visit left the two sisters, as usual, in greater despondency than it had found them. “ Mrs. Campden’s reference to our bread and cheese was in exceedingly bad taste,” said Kitty, with unwonted indignation. “ I think you deserve great credit, Jenny, for not flying out at her.” “My dear Kitty,” returned her sister, “ I have had my say, as Mrs. Campden herself calls it, about that woman, and have made up my mind to hold my tongue. Besides, it was your bread and cheese, not mine. Do you suppose I don’t see how X FALLEN FORTUNES. 3^2 you ate starving yourself for my sake ? added slie, with a sudden burst of tenderness. “ No, no, darling ; I am doing nothing of the kind ; I am all right,’’ soblDed Kitty. They were weeping now in each other’s arms. “ It was very foolish of me to be so angry, but she was cruel to taunt us with our poverty. What can be the good of that ? ” • cried Jenny, with passionate contempt. “Do you imagine she ever thinks of ‘the good ? ’ She talked like that in order to have an excuse for sending us broken victuals as well as cast-off clothes. Who cares what she says ! ” “ That is true. It is Uncle George’s conduct that hurts me, not hers. He ought to -have written, or come over, or some- thing, after that — that letter of his wife’s.” “ He is a coward ; that is the long and short of it. You never showed me that letter, Kitty ; but ” “ I burnt it,” interrupted Kate. “ I know you did. I only wish to ask you one question about it. Was there anything in it insulting — I mean disrespectful — to dear papa ? ” “ There was something about him, not exactly insulting ” “ I understand ; you need say no more, Kitty. I suspected as much. If I had known it ; well, things are best as they are ; but pray, never let me meet Mrs. Campden again. I will not answer for my tongue, else. The very sensation of being in that woman’s neighbourhood stifles me.” Nothing more was said on the matter; but Jenny, notwith- standing her observation that matters were best as they were, was furious at the reflection that Mrs. Campden was probably under the impression that she had seen that communication to Kitty, and yet had not resented its insults to her father. The morning after next brought two letters to the Nook, where now the postman so rarely delivered one. “ Well, Jenny, here is an invitation for us all to go to town ! ” cried Kitty, triumphantly. “ Not from the Skiptons, surely ? ” “Well, no; from nobody quite so fashionable. It is from Nurse Haywood, at Islington. Her house is vacant, it seems ; and if we would only come and live there till dear papa returns — or — or something turns up. Of course we must not take ad- vantage of the dear creature’s kindness as to terms ; but even if we paid her a moderate rent, it would, I do believe, be cheaper than living here.” THE EXODUS, 323 ‘‘May I see the letter ? — Ah, then, yon have been writing to her to ask whether we could come, because of what I said to you th© other day about my hating to be near Riverside ! Oh, Kitty, Kitty, you think of everybody but yourself ! I know you would dislike living in town in such a different way from what “ Indeed, I should not,” interposed Kitty, flushing up. She had an objection to live in London, biit it was certainly not that. She had a vague fear that Mr. Holt would find opportunities of pressing his suit. “Well, if you really wouldn’t mind, Kitty, I should so prefer it. And fancy what a pleasure it will be to dear old nurse, and —Jeff ! ” Kitty was silent for a little ; then quietly said : “ There was a letter from Jeff*, was there not ? ” “ Yes, darling ; but as you won’t show me yours, I won’t show you mine — just yet. You are not jealous, are you Either from the idea of leaving Sanbeck, or for some other reason, Jenny was for a wonder in high spirits; and these some- times, as the phrase goes, carried her away with them. “ Ko, darling, I am not jealous,” answered Kitty, gently ; “ but I thought you told me that you liked being at the Kook because of the old books, which were so useful to you in your writing.” “ Did I, dear ? Then I was talking nonsense, as I very often do.” And again she smiled. It was seldom that she did so ; but when she did, the smile gave her delicate, intelligent face a rare beauty, and a softness which of late it had sorely lacked. Kitty kissed her. “We shall have to sell all our things, Jenny, or most of them, before we can get away quite free from debt, and set up house- keeping again in London. I suppose they must be sold in Bleabarrow.” “ Very good, my dear,” answered Jenny, cheerfully. “ Write to the auctioneer at once ; or shall I write ? I know the gen- tleman, for he made my reclining-couch. I think I made rather a conquest of him, and he may take off* that one- eighth per cent, which Jeff has got so much to talk about.” “ What a pleasure it is to see you laugh again, Jenny,” said Kitty, fondly. “And what a cheap pleasure,” answered the other, gaily, “which is a great consideration. By-the-by,” added she, with sudden gravity, “there is one debt we have quite forgotten, 324 fallen fortunes. though I of all people ought to have remembered it — there is the dear old doctor’s account to be settled.” The light faded out of her face, which had once more grown bright and young ; it was as though a child had suddenly been debarred from some long-promised treat. ‘‘ I have been thinking of it a great deal, Jenny. If he charges us as he ought to do, it will be a long bill — because you know there was his attendance upon dear mamma. Still, I am sure, it will be as reasonable as he can justly make it. We must sell a little more of the furniture, that’s all. Hurse Hay- wood’s house has almost everything we shall require, you know.” “ It is a dreadful thing for a poor family to have an invalid in it,” said Jenny, in a low voice. “ Mrs. Campden w^as right there.” ‘'Mrs. Campden is never right — at least about 'ws,” replied Kitty, decisively. “ Of course we would have you well if we could ; but you are dearer to us as you are, than anyone else could be in the rudest health. Now let us set to work, Jenny, at once, since we really are going away, and forget all our invalid fancies in active employment.” “ For which I am so very useful,” said Jenny, bitterly. “ There are other and better ways of being useful, my dear, than in cording boxes and carrying them up and down stairs. You can write to the auctioneer, as you suggested, for example ; and you can pen a few pretty lines to the doctor, asking him to be so good as to let us know what we owe him ; he will like it better coming from you than from me ; and besides, you can express yourself ten times as well as I can. It is not a very agreeable task, I fear, my darling.” “ It is not worse than things you have to do yourself, Kitty, every hour of the day,” answered Jenny, passionately. “ You are starving yourself — you are working yourself to the bone, for others ; and I won’t be spoilt in this way, and treated like a child ; I won’t, indeed.” Kitty opened her large eyes at this outburst ; but before she could reply, Jenny had sat down at her mother’s desk and seized a pen. “ Don’t talk, please,” said she, with a sudden change from vexation to mock-gravity, “ because I am engaged in business.” The notion of “business” as associated with that fragile and immaterial creature was so utterly incongruous and absurd, that Kitty, whose laughter, fortunately for her, was always THE EXODUS, 325 much nearer to her lips than the tears to her eyes, could not restrain her mirth. Both Jenny’s letters were answered promptly enough. The auctioneer came over from Bleabarrow in person, appraised the furniture, gave them a rough estimate of what it would fetch, and received his instructions. Everything was to be sold with- out reserve, except the piano, a few books, and some knick- knacks that had belonged to their mother. Dr. Curzon sent his reply by return of post, to the effect that ill case Mr. Dalton should come home with a gold mine in his pocket, he would send them in such a bill as could not be made out without consultation with Dr. Jefferson, who was an expert in that art; but otherwise that they should get no bill from him. His hand, it was true, was against every man and in every man’s pocket, he said, but that he did not make war against young ladies. Moreover, that such an idea had been imputed to him had given him mortal offence, which nothing but their all coming to dine with him on the ensuing day could wipe out. This communication had a very different effect from what the writer had intended ; for its recipient broke down as she read it, and gave way to a burst of tears. Poor Jenny ! The hardness of the world made her bitter, and its softness made her weak ; or was it the contrast between them that affected her more than either ? But both sisters argued that Dr. Curzon’s bill must be paid, and they sent by Tony a few earnest yet graceful words to that effect, as well as an acceptance of the doctor’s invitation. “Your bill shall be sent in,” was the reply brought back, along with an intimation that the doctor’s “private equipage” — which was in fact the Bleabarrow fly — should be sent for them on the morrow. Upon the whole, it was a more cheerful little dinner-party than could have been expected. Their host did not seem sur- prised that they were bent on leaving Sanbeck, though he ex- pressed the regret which, without doubt, he felt upon his own account. Very little was spoken about the Campdens; their host was far from saying anything to widen the breach between the families ; but when Kitty spoke of the annoyance which she feared the sale at Bleabarrow would cause at Riverside, he observed drily : “ It is generally disagreeable to see folks drown, especially in shallow water ; but it is less painful to some people than wetting their own shoes, At all events, I have no sym- 326 FALLEN FORTUNES. pafhy to spare, nnder sucli circumstances, for those upon the hank/^ Jenny said nothing, but thanked him with her eyes. She would have been still more grateful to him had she known what happened on the morrow ; how the doctor rode up to E/iverside, and breaking through that neutrality which it behoves every medical man who practises in the country to maintain, had attempted to plead the Daltons’ cause with Mrs. Campden. He lost it, of course, and his temper with it ; and in the end gave a piece of his mind to Mr. Campden, who made one in the interview, and about one-tenth of one in the con- versation. His wife had observed that the Dalton girls had behaved disrespectfully to her in coming to this decision about giving up their house without consulting her. ‘‘And as for selling their furniture in Bleabarrow, under our very noses, as it were, it is most inconsiderate and disgraceful.” “It is ill-judged, my dear,” said Mr. Campden; “but there cannot be any disgrace in selling one’s own property to pay one’s debts.” “I agree with Mrs. Campden,” said the doctor, “that it is very disgraceful.” “There, you see; Dr. Curzon agrees with meV'* cried the lady, triumphantly. “ He knows the circumstances, and espe- cially his patient. Miss Jenny’s character, who, you may depend upon it, is at the bottom of this. She would do anything to spite me, because I thought it right to set before her sister her true position.” This attack on his favourite Jenny cut the last strand of the doctor’s patience. “Your wife mistakes me, Mr. Campden. I think it a great disgrace that the sale should take place ; but the disgrace lies at your door, not theirs. If I had your money, or one hun- dredth part of it, before I would permit two helpless girls, my kinswomen, to be sold up ” “Insolent apothecary !” interrupted Mrs. Campden, shrilly, “how dare you ? You know nothing about the matter. You never had two shillings to rub against one another. My hus- band’s money, indeed ! I should like to know what you would do with it ? ” “Well, then. I’ll tell you, madam. The very first thing I would do with it, if I were he — though it cost me fifty thousand pounds — would be to get a divorce from my wife.” And with THE EXODUS. 327 that the doctor clapped his hat on his head, and walked out of the house, not to enter it again for many a year. This little scene did not tend to increase the cordiality of the tenants of Riverside towards those of the Nook. It did, in fact, widen the breach between them exceedingly. When the sale was over, and it wanted still a week to the time fixed for the Daltons’ departure, Mrs. Campden wrote a coldly civil letter to Kitty, offering the use of her carriage to take them to the station. This Kitty rightly took as a polite hint that a farewell visit to Riverside might be dispensed with, which was so far a great relief. At the same time, the sense that they had been separated so soon and so utterly from those they had considered their best friends, by the bare blade of poverty, was keenly felt. She also trembled to think of the isolation that had befallen those committed to her trust. At present, however, thanks to the necessity for exertion consequent on their departure, this last consideration did not press so hard upon her ; but she knew that it was, as it were, in abeyance, to become cruelly poignant when they should find themselves in the wild waste of London. The last hour the two girls and Tony spent at Sanbeck was passed at their mother’s grave. Workmen of all kinds are tardy in the country, and the pretty headstone, with its simple OuR Mother,” and the date upon it, had been only just erected. The doctor met the little pious band returning from the churchyard, and promised them that Mrs. Dalton’s resting- place should be henceforth his peculiar care. “You must come down and see the flowers growing upon it, my dears,” he said. And much else he said, as welcome and as comforting ; how they had yet left to them in the little valley one friend on whom they could count at all times — not very able, but good for some- thing at a pinch, and very, very willing. “But you have never sent that account you promised, and therefore we don’t trust you,” said Kitty, severely, wishing to stop Jenny’s tears, which were flowing freely. “ I have brought it with me,” said he; and he gave it her. “ It is the last remembrance you will have of me, as is the case with all doctors. And now good-bye, darlings.” He rode off on his stout pony as the Riverside carriage came thundering into the courtyard. There were still a few minufes to spare before parting with old Margate. (The maid, more open-mouthed than ever, was to accompany them as baby’s nurse and bottle-holder.) Kitty’s FALLEN FORTUNES. 328 housewifely instincts caused her to look at the total of the doobor’s “little account.'’ “ Oh Jenny !” cried she, “ what do you think that wicked old dear has done ? ” “ Charged us too little, of course — something ridiculously small. I knew he would." “ My dear, he has receipted the bill. What are we to do ?" But Jenny had already left the room, and the last box was being put on the carrier’s cart. “ I really am afraid it won’t do to pay Dr. Curzon, Jenny,’’ said she, reverting to the subject when they were seated in the carriage. “We must write him a pretty letter of thanks together, instead.’’ “Yes; he will value that higher than your cheque, Kitty, God bless him.’’ They did nob speak much more together as they drove down the quiet valley where they had left their dear one behind them. Their hearts were too full of memories — and perhaps forebodings. When they got into the train — a second-class carriage hap- pened, by good fortune, to be empty — Kitty again broke silence. “What on earth had you to say to Charles, Jenny?’’ (Charles was the Campdens’ footman.) “ Of course, I gave something both to him and the coachman.’’ “ Don’t be afraid, my dear, of my paying people twice over,’’ returned Jenny, laughing. “ I assure you I mean to be as careful of my money as though I were ever so rich. I was only discharging a little debt." “ What debt ?’’ “ The debt we owe to Mrs. Campden — that horrid fen pounds she lent us. If the doctor had taken his dues, I should have felt bound to pay them, so far as I could, out of my privy purse, since the bill was incurred on my account. But now — oh, I am so glad to have sent that woman back her ten pounds ! I didn’t do it insultingly, mind; I just sent a few lines as we were leaving the Kook, to thank her for the use of the carriage — for you know she said she had sent it principally on dear Jenny’s account — and enclosed the amount of her late loan. Oh dear, how nice it was ! How happy I feel ! ’’ “ But, my dear Jenny, where did you get the ten pounds ?" “ From here," said Jenny, touching her forehead with her forefinger, “from here, my dear. I draw upon my imagination, and my imagination draws upon a firm in Paternoster Bow which honours its cheques," THE SWING OF THE PENDULUM, 329 CHAPTER XLI. THE SWING OF THE PENDULUM. Life is not all sorrow even to the sorrowful. There are hours when the sick are well, when the prisoners are enfranchised, when the poor are wealthy. It may be that they only seem so by comparison with their usual lot (for has not happiness been defined by a sad sage as freedom from pain ?) ; yet they are happy ; buoyant, thankful, believing, for a little while, that the sun shines for them as w^ell as for others ; that Fate is not, after all, so hard. Thus it was with the two sisters as they sat together in the railway carriage, the one disclosing, the other drinking in, the details of a literary success. The baby was asleep, and Tony was endeavouring to teach the open-mouthed maid the rudiments of travelling piquet. She would count the sheep per head instead of per flock, and in doing so missed the magpies, the donkies, and all that was really valuable upon her side of the way. This news is wonderful, dear Jenny,’’ cried Kitty, ad- miringly. “ The idea of your being a real live author ! I thought that you had some idea of getting money by your lace-work; and so did dear mamma. We used to talk about it together, though we never spoke of it to you, and she used to tremble so lest you should meet with some disappointment. She said people would not think so much of your lace, beautiful as it was, when they had to pay for it.” “ She was right, Kitty. I failed in the lace-line ; I thought T would try literature.” “ Good heavens ! ” murmured Kitty, overcome wdth the audacity of this idea. “Yes, my dear, I said to myself : ‘ I will be an author.’ You know I was always fond of scribbling. I suppose I had written as much as Shakespeare from first to last ; though there was a considerable difference in the quality.” “ Don’t let us say that,” said Kitty, encouragingly. “ Well, other people said it, my dear (or the equivalent of it) at all events ; editors especially.” “Editors! You write to editors, then?” Kitty regarded her sister with a sublime surprise — ^n adniiration tinctured with ?i>we. 330 FALLEN FORTUNES. Why, no ; I got Jeff to take the things, and to offer them as though they were his own productions.” “ Jeff ! You made poor Jeff pretend to be an author ! But how could he ?” He went to work as naturally as possible. He gave them tragedy, comedy, melodrama, and sentimental effusions ; but no one ever expressed a doubt.” How charming ! ” exclaimed Kitty, clapping her hands together in joyful excitement. ‘‘And they were all accepted, of course ? ” “ Ko, dear; they were all rejected. The editors told Jeff that he must have patience, and ‘ fill his basket.^ (The expres- sion puzzled him a good deal, by-the-by ; he said he had only heard of one’s ‘ bread-basket,’ and how was an author to fill if he could not sell his works.) He was to read more, they meant, and not attempt to spin things out of himself, like a spider. You shall read Jeff’s description of it all some day. So I set to work upon Mr. Landell’s library. It was rather dry work at first; but I ferreted out some curious and out-of-the-way things, and made two articles out of them, and told Jeff to try his for- tune with them with ‘The Smellfungus Magazine.’ And the editor actually accepted them.” “ Only to think of it, Jenny ! Then you were in print ! And yet you never told us ! How could you keep such a secret, and oh, Jenny, from dear mamma, too, whom it would have pleased so much ! ” “ I have often thought of that, dear,” answered the other, gravely; “but it does not matter now. What I had set my heart on was to get money for us all — to show that I was not going to be the clog and the burden to you that — that woman at Riverside took it for granted I should be. And since for those articles I got no money, I determined to say nothing about them. But Jeff — dear Jeff — so managed it that for a story I Vv^rote, all out of these old materials, I did get money. ^ The day you heard from ISTurse Haywood he sent me two five- pound notes from the editor. I should have given them to you at once, only you spoke of Dr. Curzon’s bill, and I thought they ought to go towards that. Even so, it would have been very nice ; but as it is — to have paid Mrs. Campden off with them — it is simply delicious! We are out of debt, and we shall have the means of livelihood. This was ‘the hope’ that I told that woman we still had, and at which you smiled so sadly, when she came to call that day a^t the Kook ; the hope of my being able THE SWING OF THE PENDULUM, 331 to mak^ money by my pen ; and* yon see it has been realised. It is not such a bad world, after all ; if only dear papa comes home to us. I think he will come now ; I do indeed. Every- thing looks so much brighter, though I thought we were never to have a ray of sunshine again. Kiss me, Kitty. The two girls sat locked in a close embrace. “ But, Jenny, why did you let us leave Sanbeck ? You will no longer have any books to — to “ To ‘ gut.^ That was the word the editor used to Jeff, little knowing that he was giving advice to a lady. He said that at the British Museum I should find any amount of old books to — to perform that operation upon. It seems I have a talent for evisceration.” “ 1 daresay,” said Kitty, confidently, though I don’t know what it means. It seems to me you have a talent for every- thing. Oh, you dear, clever creature ! ” cried she, holding her at arm’s length, ‘‘ I declare I feel quite afraid of you ; I shall never dare scold you again.” Ill the exuberance of her admiration, Kitty must needs con- fide the fact of Jenny’s authorship to Tony, but without awakening the like enthusiasm, for that gentleman being deep in his game of travelling piquet, which disinclined him to with- draw his attention from external objects, and also not being particularly interested in literary matters, only observed that “ Jenny was a stunner, and that he had always said so.” And if he had been informed that she had been made editress of The Quarterly Keview,” or “ Punch,” or both, he would pro- bably have made the same observation. This philosophy upon Tony’s part, with which Kitty was herself inclined to quarrel, amused Jenny exceedingly, and for an hour or two she continued in the highest spirits. Then the long travel and comparative discomfort of the carriage began to tell upon her feeble frame ; she grew pale with pain and weariness, then sick and faint. They were fortunately still alone, and all was done for her in the way of affectionate ten- dance that could bo done. Kitty was not one of those young ladies who associate faintness with immediate dissolution, and are frightened out of their small wits on beholding at attack of illness ; but she felt with anguish, that the improvement which was hoped had taken place of late in her sister’s health must have been less real than apparent. Perhaps those very attempts to procure money by her pen, over which they had just been so sanguine, had exhausted and enfeebled her. At this thought 332 FALLEN FORTUNES, the momentary sunshine in poor Kitty’s heart was quite extin- guished, and the clouds that covered it were darker than those it had dispelled. What were a few pounds earned now and again, when set against the cost of Jenny’s life ? As the light faded out from the short winter’s day, and she sat with Jenny’s aching head pillowed on her breast, and with the baby’s feeble moan in her ears, she was filled with sad forebodings ; strange thoughts of self-sacrifice and self-negation, which had for a time grown unfamiliar to her, retook possession of her brain, and turned her cold — as cold, but as steady, as a statue. As the whistle sounded, and the train plunged into the last tunnel, she pictured to herself her last return from Riverside, alone, when Jenny and her mother had come to meet her at the station and take her home. Kow there was no mother, nor any home that could be called such ; and none to meet, or “ Kitty ! Jenny ! — there’s Jeff ! ” cried Tony, excitedly, as the carriage glided into the gas-lit station. And in another moment Jeff’s hand was on the door, and his bright face smiled through the window-pane, as he ran beside the still moving train. How glad, and yet how sad, Kitty felt to see him ; glad upon her sister’s account, to whom she could now entirely devote herself, while Jeff looked after the baggage ; but sad upon her own, for somehow his presence scattered and broke down those low beginnings of content,” she had begun to feel in that scheme of self-sacrifice which she had just now been painfully elaborating. Oh, why had he come with his kind tones and tender eyes, ere yet her mind had had time to harden in its mould of duty ! “ Jenny is very tired, Jeff,” was all her greeting to him, except the thankful pressure of her fingers. “ Of course she is,” returned he, cheerfully. “ How could it be otherwise after such a journey ! I have got a brougham for her, so that she should not be jolted quite to pieces. So get you into it, you three folks and a half; and I will follow with Tony and the baggage in a four-wheeler.” “ A brougham ! ” sighed Jenny, looking more dead than alive. “ I call that a wasteful extravagance.” “Pooh, pooh!” he whispered; “distinguished authoresses don’t ride about in hack-carriages in London, let me tell you, whatever they may do in Sanbeck.” Ko further expostulation was made, for indeed nothing could have been more welcome to poor Jenny’s back and limbs than THE SWING OF THE PENDULUM, 333 the cushions of the vehicle in question, which Jeff had had supplemented for her especial use. She felt positively better on her arrival in Brown Street, after their long drive through miscalled “ Merry Islington — the dullest and drabbest of all suburbs — than when she had left the train. She had been as eloquent about Jeff’s thought and kindness on the way as her feeble voice would permit her to be ; but Kitty had answered nothing. She knew how tender and how true he was, and dared not trust herself to praise him. To her great relief, he did not present himself that night in Brown Street, but left the little family to “ settle down ” in their new dwelling alone. If it was not “like home,” it was very unlike what ordinary lodgings would have been ; instead of the smiles of a mercenary landlady, there was the honest, kind face of Kurse Haywood to give them welcome. It would not have beamed half so brightly had they been rich folks who had agreed “ for six months certain ” at treble the rent ; for she loved “ the young ladies ” as though they had been her own children, and thought them the most beautiful and charming of God’s creatures. “Master Tony” had always been her especial darling ; and the baby she regarded as a precious and sacred charge bequeathed by its sainted mother to the world, in compensation for her departure heavenward. Kitty always used to assert that Kurse Haywood was “ a lady ; ” and looking at her with her neat grey hair, and gentle, quiet face, as she stood dressed in her new black silk, to welcome the bereaved ones, you would have endorsed that opinion. She wore a certain gold watch and chain a little ostentatiously, to be sure, in the front of her dress, but then these had been given her by Mr. Dalton’s own hand, and she w’ished to show herself mindful of him. Her face, like her person, was plump, and, notwithstanding her advanced years, quite free from wrinkles; and if her voice was somewhat broken, it was not through age, but because, though old, she had retained all her sympathies and affections (the more easily, perhaps, that they were within narrow limits), and was sadly “ upset ” at the sight of her dear ones. It was their trouble that troubled her ; and her chief care and fear were that, accustomed as they were, as she expressed it, “ to the best of everything,” the accommodation she had to offer them in Brown Street would seem miserable and insuffi-cient. The sight of Jenny, so wan and travel- worn, utterly overcame her, and she could only exclaim, “ My poor, poor lamb ! ” as she folded her to her heart. 334 PALLEN FORTUNES. Truly the “ wind was tempered to her and to all the shorn flock in that hospitable dwelling. It was humble, yet, as Kitty shrewdly suspected, by no means so low-rented as the price Kurse Haywood had charged them. They would be none the less a burden on their old friend, because she would bear it like a feather ; and if it lasted long, how could she bear it ! How- ever, she drove those thoughts away, and for the present resolved to feel only thankfulness. After the nice little supper, at which Tony greatly distinguished himself, and which she herself did her best to swallow, lest her hostess should ascribe her want of appetite to fastidiousness ; and after she had seen the rest of the party stowed away in their small dormitories, and Jenny, dead-tired, had fallen asleep, Kitty sat down in her room, over an unaccustomed fire, to cast up the expenses of the day. Accounts had of old been hateful to her, but now she found a refuge in them from thought. Their dry details shut out alike reflection on the past and forebodings for the future. Scarcely had she begun, however, when there was a gentle knock at the door, and there entered nurse Haywood. ‘‘ Kow, my dear Miss Kitty,” said she, perceiving the nature of her occupation, why on earth are you a-worriting yourself about pounds and shilJings, instead of getting ready for your bed, which. Heaven knows, you must want enough ? ” “ But, my dear nurse,” answered Kitty, smiling, “ I must needs look after not only pounds and shillings now, but shillings and pence. You have endeavoured to spoil us, as usual, with all sorts of luxuries, this fire in my bedroom for one. But, indeed, you must not go on so. I told you in my letter how very diflerent things were with us, remember.” “ I know that, and the more shame to them as brought it about.” Nurse Haywood firmly believed that the Daltons’ mis- fortunes had been caused by some wicked human agency, assisted by the more or less direct assistance of the devil. “But you have no call to fash yourself with money matters yet a while. There’s near upon a hundred pounds, my dear, in the savings bank, which is yours if it is anybody’s. Heaven knows, since it was all saved in your service.” “ Nurse, nurse, don’t talk like that ! ” cried Kitty, breaking down in spite of herself. “ Do you think we have come here to live upon your savings ? ” “You are come here to be comfortable, and not to worrit,” returned the old dame, decisively. “Your dear papa will be home soon, please God ; and a pretty thing it will be if he finds THE SWING OF THE PENDULUM. 335 you have been denying yourself things in my house. And even if he don’t come back, do you suppose you have no friends ? ” “ None but you, dear nurse ; except one or two who have all the will, indeed, but not the- power to serve us.” “ Well, I don’t know ; gentlemen who ride on horseback, wdth their groom behind them, have generally money to spare ; and one such at least has been here to-day to ask after you all. A more civil-spoken gentleman, or who showed himself more kindly towards you all, it is not easy to picture.” ‘‘ What was the gentleman’s name ? Was it Sir William Skipton ? ” “ Very like, miss. He might have been all that, to judge by his hat and boots, which you might have seen yourself in, just as in that looking-glass. He didn’t leave his name ; but he said he was a friend of your father’s — which went to my heart at once, as you may credit. And he asked after you all, one by one, down to the sweet baby. He thought you had come yester- day, it seems, and called to inquire how you all were, after your long journey.” “Was he a little man, with grey whiskers ? ” “ Oh, no. Miss Kitty : he was a tall, fine-looking gentleman, rather stiffish, I should have said, if he had not been so affable. I am sure he is a friend of yours, whoever isn’t. But what I came up to say was that here is a letter for you, as came by the last post to-day, but which the sight of your sweet faces put clean out of my old head till now. I thought I’d bring it up — else you had much better not read it to-night — in case it was anything about — about your dear papa.” “It is nothing about papa, I am sure,” said Kitty, quietly, having cast her eye on the address. “ And I shall take your advice, nurse, and go to bed.” She at once proceeded to put away her accounts ; and after a cordial “ good night,” the old dame withdrew. Then Kitty drew her chair to the fire, and gazed at the still closed letter with hard, despairing eyes. She had recognised the handwriting at once as that of Mr. Holt ; and she thought she could guess the nature of its contents. He had called in person, it seemed, that very day, and now he had w^ritten her a letter. Fate was not only hard with her but urgent, as though she had already tendered her submission to it. The envelope was a large one, and held something weighty, like that she had received from Mrs. Campden. Was it possible that this man had dared to send her money — bank-notes ? No ) Pallen fortunes. 336 thank heaven ! it was not that. There was a lettei*, and some* thing official on a large piece of paper. The receipt of a pre- mium from a life insurance office for one hundred and twenty pounds. What could it mean ? The letter was, of course, from Mr. Holt. ‘‘My Dear Miss Dalton, — In the hurry of your father’s departure from England he omitted to pay his usual premium to the Falm Branch, As in a few days it would have been over- due, and the policy thereby have lapsed, I have taken the liberty to guard against that contingency. The money has been paid under protest — that is to say, if it should turn out — which Heaven forbid ! — that your poor father should have deceased before this date, the society will repay the premium in question, together with the policy of five thousand pounds. You will perceive, therefore, that I have incurred no risk, nor yourself any obligation, by this transaction, which I have only effected as a mere matter of convenience to you, and of course not without consultation with your friends. “I did myself the honour to call in Brown Street to-day, but mistook, it seems, the date of your arrival in town. Pray, make my best compliments to your sister, and remember me most kindly to my young friend Tony. The acquaintance of the remaining member of your family I have not as yet had the pleasure to make, but I hope he bore his journey with equa- nimity. — Believe me, my dear Miss Dalton, yours always most faithfully, Richard Holt.” She took up the receipt again, and read it with scarlet cheek. “ Received one hundred and twenty pounds.” She was indebted, therefore, in that sum — or in nearly a whole year’s income — to the man who paid it ; and when he wrote that no obligation had been incurred on her part, he was writing an untruth, and one which he knew could not impose upon her for a moment. The “ friends ” with whom he had consulted were, of course, the Campdens, or probably only Mrs. Campden. Surely “ Uncle George ” could never have allowed himself to be a party to a scheme which made her this man’s debtor. She had not known the money was due. The application, in fact, had come through her father’s bankers, who had been duly instructed to pay it ; and since there were now no funds in hand, they had forwarded it to Riverside. How hopeless would she have felt at Sanbeck, had she been aware of it ; and how hope- less she felt now ! Even if her father should come home to- THE SWING OE THE PENDULUM. 337 morrow — poorer, in all probability, than he went — she would be none the less indebted to Mr. Holt. Indeed, the certain news of her father’s death, and the consequent payment of his policy, could alone acquit her of the pecuniary obligation, let alone any other. Oh, cruel fate ! that her only escape from an unwelcome — she dared not now say even to herself, now that the thing might come to pass, a detested— suitor, should be, as it were, over her father’s corpse ! She could of course decline to receive this help at all ; could object to the premium being paid at all ; but then there was the contingency which Mr. Holt had glanced at, of her father dying after the premium had become overdue. He might be wrecked somewhere at that moment, but still alive ; and yet he might not come back alive to England. In that case his children would lose the policy : that five thousand pounds, the possession or loss of which would make all the difference to them for their li^es in this world ; would insure them competence, or condemn them to the poverty that one at least of them was fo ill-fitted to bear. That very morning — not twelve hours ago — Kitty had been happy, hopeful, in her sister’s triumph ; now it seemed an age since happiness had visited her, and, moreover, that it would never visit her again. Her future looked dark indeed. The self- sacrifice she was contemplating was one which no man can esti- mate ; there is nothing like it in the experience of his sex ; for when a man marries a woman for her money, it is she, and not himself, when all is said, who in truth is sacrificed. In many cases, indeed, such as poor Kitty’s, the gilded chain soon ceases to gall ; it is only a few to whom romance is neces- sary, and the purchased bride finds her life very tolerable ; but Kitty was conscious of an obstacle to her self-abnegation, which made it ten times more hard for her, and almost a crime. In giving herself to Richard Holt, she was casting away the offer of Geoffrey Derwent’s love ; and in her heart of hearts she had accepted it. “ Oh mother, mother ! ” cried she despairingly, as she turned upon her sleepless bed, “ why, why did you leave me ! ” She had never felt the need of an adviser and a comforter so much as now. 9 338 FALLEN FORTUNES. CHAPTER XLII. now THE PREMIUM WAS PAID. Brown Street is not lovely, but it is far from being so melan- choly a place of residence as that wherein three-fourths of the population of London are doomed to pass their lives. There was light in it and air enough, at least for persons in good health ; and at the end of it, where the builder’s money had come to an end, and he went into the Bankruptcy Court, there was still a space unoccupied by brick and mortar, through which a glimpse of the country could be seen. This w^as not the valley of Sanbeck, but it was open ground, with a spectral tree or two, holding its ragged arms aloft, as though in deprecation of the advancing host of houses ; and afar off was what looked like a village churcb — though it w^as, in fact, the tower of a Waterworks Company. The dwellings in Brown Street were clean, at least externally — at Mrs. Haywood’s you could have “ eaten your dinner off the floor,’’ it was so spick and span — and they had not yet begun to “ peel,” to exhibit those cracks and flakes peculiar to stucco, which is analogous to some skin diseases in the human frame. The street was situated between two magnets, or would-be magnets. There was an immense public-house at one end, which had not yet succeeded in with- drawing the custom of the humbler classes from the old pot- house in the neighbourhood, but was convenient for those who liked their beer on draught, and were not very particular as to ?what it was made of ; and at the other end was an ecclesiastical edifice of iron, about which the pious part of the population had not quite made up their minds. Service was performed there every Sunday by a real clergyman ; but one likes one’s church to looli like a church, and it might not afford that security against fire — in the end — which its material suggested. From Brown Street ran off at right angles Little Brown Street, a spot devoted to the hatching of small shops of all descriptions, about half of which were addled ; or rather the thing that was brought forth — it was chiefly in the cheap newspaper and tobacco line, toy line, or the cheap tailoring line, with a splendid picture of the Fashions in the window, — lived but a week or two ; it sparkled, was exhausted, and went to. the brokers. The omnibuses — one line of them, at all events — knew of the exist- ence of Brown Street, because commercial gents of various BO IV THE PREMIUM WAS PAID, 339 kinds lodged there, and were ‘‘ taken up ’’ every morning within a few hundred yards of it; but the cabs ignored it, “ Brown Street ? Where was Brown Street ? Might it be down away by the Duke of York’s Head, ma’am ? A question no lady fare could answer. One may imagine, therefore, how entirely unknown it was to “ carriage people.'^ Yet on the very day after the arrival of the Dalton family, the equipage of no less a person than Lady Skipton did somehow contrive to find its way there. “ Never heerd of sich a place, my lady,^^ said the coach- man to his mistress, when directed to drive thither. “ Never seed sich a place,” was his remark, in confidence, to the foot- man, as the carriage bumped over the half-formed roads, and over the broken bricks that plentifully strewed it ; it’s a cruelty to a carridge and ’osses,” Jenny was not visible to her ladyship : after that episode of the lacework, she would not have seen her under any circum- stances, but on this occasion she was really too ill to do so. The journey had utterly knocked her up. So Kitty received her alone. She was far from well herself, for she had had but little sleep ; and she had been thinking all the morning what sort of reply she should write to Mr. Holt’s letter. But she felt that she was not in a position to refuse to see anybody who might be of service to them. It was a sickening thought that even her friendships — as she had been accustomed to call them — must now be alloyed with views of self-interest. With Lady Skipton came her daughter Leonora — Lenny, as Kitty was wont to call her — who had attended classes with her in old days, and, next to Mary Campden, had been her greatest confidante. She was a pleasant little person, with a great deal of hair and a fairy figure. Everybody wondered how such an elephantine mamma — her ladyship weighed about eighteen stone — could have pro- duced such a gazelle. She w^as one of twins, her sister having died in infancy, or she would probably have been double the size. She had written poems; one, “To my Alter Ego in Heaven,” was very much admired in her family circle. Kitty had always believed in her sensibility, and defended it against Jenny, who derided her (“She is too much ‘up,’ Kitty; like ginger-beer ”) ; but somehow she now mistrusted Lenny’s im- passioned greeting. “ You got my letter, my darling, of course ? ” said this young lady. She had indited one to Sanbeck upon the death of Mrs. Dalton, full of quotations from the poets, and which had jarred on 340 FALLEN FORTUNES. Kitty’s sorrow-laden car. It had been a relief to her that Lenny had written “ Don’t reply,” the one piece of true consideration in the letter. How terribly you must have suffered,” she went on. “ How pale you look, darling.” “Black never becomes the complexion,” said Lady Skipton, encouragingly. “When she is in colours again, she will look more like herself. I am so sorry about poor «Tenny ; but doubt- less the change of air will do her good. I am afraid she was annoyed with me about her lacework ; she sent back the little present I enclosed to her.” Then for the first time Kitty learnt the story of the unsold lace. “ She never mentioned the matter to me. Lady Skipton,” answered she, when it had been related to her. “ Come, then, let us hope she was not offended,” replied her ladyship, cheerfully. “ I hope you will both come and dine with us, as soon as you get settled my dear ; of course it is a little soo?^,” said she, with a glance at Kitty’s mournful garb, “ but then we are old friends.” “ I am afraid we shall not be great diners-out for the future,” said Kitty. “ Now, don’t you go and shut yourselves up, my dear,” replied her ladyship, promptly. “ In case, particularly, it would be most injudicious. I won’t promise to send the carriage, be- cause Robert is so particular about his horses ; he is in the worst of tempers at this moment, because there is a brick or two in the road : but when you come in a cab, mind, that is always imj affair. I should never forgive myself if I caused you any ex- pense, just now ; though I have good reason to believe that the little inconvenience you may now be suffering from will soon bo over.” “I am glad to hear it,” said Kitty, coldly, almost defiantly, “ though it is news to me.” “ Well, well, perhaps I am premature ; I thought, from some- thing that dropped from Mrs. Campden But no matter. I hope our horses — by-the-bye, they are old friends of yours, Kitty, for Sir William bought them of your papa — are not catching cold. Lenny, just see where Robert has taken the carriage to.” Lenny looked out of the window and reported progress in the direction of the public-house. “I thought so,” said her ladyship with irritation, “Well, IIOJV THE PREMIUM WAS PAID. 341 my dear, you see we didn’t lose a day in calling on you. By- the-bye, you have never shown us that dear delightful baby. Is it like your poor mamma, or who ? ” “ The baby is asleep,” said Kitty. “ Bless it ! ” cried Lenny, clasping her little hands ecstatically. “ What is its pretty name ? ” “ John. He is called after dear papa.” “Very right, very proper,” said Lady Skipton. “If I had had a boy, I had made up my mind to call it after its papa; though, to be sure, when there is a title in a family, the thing becomes imperative. Little Tony, of course, is at school ? ” “ JSTo ; he is at home for the present.” “Well, well; I daresay you are wise. So long as you can exercise authority over a boy, he is best among home influences. Come, there is Bobert at last ; he is wiping his mouth with the back of his hand, so one knows what he's been after. My dear girl, I do assure you it is not altogether a disadvantage to have to drop your carriage ; that man’s the plague of my life. God bless you ! ” Kitty submitted to an impassioned caress from Lenny ; and then, to her great relief, the visit was over. She felt a secret conviction that it was ^our pre7idre conge ; and it proved correct. Lady Skipton’s invitation to dinner was repeated, after a conside- rable interval ; but she found it impossible — on account of Robert — to bring her carriage again to Brown Street. Her afternoon’s adventure in the wilds of Islington gave her a subject for con- versation for many a day, with opportunities for dwelling upon her favourite topic, the abominable behaviour of her coachman, and for delicately hinting at her own patronage of friends in reduced circumstances. “ I was not going to desert those dear girls because they happened to live in Islington ; but what I went through to see them I shall not easily forget. The people stared at us as though we were a travelling circus ; I don’t think a carriage was ever seen in the neighbourhood before ; and Robert was in the sulks for a month afterwards ! ” Sir William sent Kitty a brace of partridges and a hare from his country- seat. There would have been more, wrote his wife, but that the birds were so wild that year in Berkshire. When Kitty went upstairs, she found Jenny had not yet risen, although she had announced her intention of doing so. “ I felt a little giddy, Kitty, so I thought I’d be lazy. And I write in bed in pencil just as well.” ‘‘Pray don’t th'nk of writing, Jenny,” implored her sister. FALLEN FORTUNES. 342 “You are quite feverisli, and your eyes are ever so mucli brighter than they ought to be.’’ “ That is because 1 am so anxious to hear about those dear Skiptons,” laughed Jenny. “ Was her ladyship affable, notwith- standing that we live in Brown Street ? I am bound to say I didn’t expect her to come and see us. Lenny, of course, was as gushing as ever. She will write a poem about us, called ‘ Friends, though Fallen,’ or some such title : I can see her at it.” “ I daresay they meant well, Jenny ; but I must confess that it was all rather unsatisfactory.” “ Then it must have been very bad indeed,” said Jenny. “ Well, they didn’t even ask to see poor Tony, though they knew he was in the house, and you know Tony used to call Lenny ‘ his wife,’ for years.” “ Ah, you see we can’t be too particular — or too little parti- cular — about young gentlemen who are not eligible. The simple fact is, my dear,” said Jenny, dropping her tone of raillery, “the Skiptons are rubbish. Our position is that of a sieve, through which we find our sham friends are all dropping out. hlurse Haywood, Dr. Curzon, and Jeff, remain to us ; but the rest are all in the dust-heap. Let them lie there. I feel that we shall henceforth be independent of them. I am satisfied — weighing one thing with another, and not even taking into consideration the fact, that dear papa’s society has been a sun- shine among all these shady people, for which they will always owe him gratitude — that wo are indebted to them for nothing. For the future, let us be careful to incur no obligations.” Kitty’s heart sank within her; she had Mr. Holt’s letter, with his receipt for the premium, at that very moment in her pocket ; and Lady Skipton's hateful words — “ Any little incon- venience you may now be suffering, I have good reason to believe, from something that dropped from Mrs. Campden, will soon be over ” — were still ringing in her ears. “ Above all things,” continued Jenny, “ I am thankful to think we have got rid of Mr. Holt. To tell you the honest truth, I had really begun to think, dear Kitty, that from some mistaken notions of duty to your family, you might have been induced to listen to that man. Of course, you could never have liked him. What ? You donH say that ? ” “ Why should I say it, Jenny ? He has certainly shown him- self well-disposed towards us.” “ Yes ; but for reasons of his own. Of course he wishes to ingratiate himself with you. But do you suppose he has fallen JIOJV TBE PREMIUM WAS PAIEK 343 in love with me, and Tony, and the baby also ? I saw through that man — I flatter myself — from the first ; and I see him — in my mind's eye, Horatio — to the end. Shall I tell you what I see ? " “Ho, Jenoy. I don't wish to hear it. Besides, you are exciting yourself ; and I am quite sure that quiet is what you want. Pray, do not try to write to-day." She took the pencil and paper from Jenny's hand, who gave them up without resistance. “Perhaps you are right, darling: I will let my brains lie fallow for a day or two ; they seem all in a muddle, some- how." Kitty had never seen her sister looking so ill since they had left Biverside. The excitement she had lately gone through, combined with the fatigue of travel, had evidently much affected her. Instead of being the prop and stay she fondly hoped to be, it was more probable she was about to be seriously ill. Dr. Curzon had always said: “ Jenny is progressing, and that is well, for standing still in her case is impossible ; there must be improvement, or else retrogression, which \vould be dangerous. Her constitution is deficient in rall^dng power." The plain English of that professional expression was only too clear to Kitty. Here, then, was another and urgent reason why she should make up her mind to accept Mr. Holt's assistance ; yet, in doing so, she felt that she would be accepting so much more, that it gave her pause. Jeff was sure to call that evening on his way home from office, for he lodged close by; and she resolved — not to consult him ; no, him least of all men ; but to ask him one question before answering Mr. Holt's letter. After that she w^ould take her owm way in the matter, without seeking advice from anyone. As she was taking her frugal supper with Tony — for the housekeeping was now in her own hands — Jeff arrived. She felt a disinclination to be alone with him, born of her mistrust in her own fortitude ; her heart was wax towards him, and melted at his presence, though she was so resolved he should not mould it." “Jeff," whispered she, while Tony was engaged with a new book his friend had bought him, “tell me the truth about dear papa. Is there any hope of his coming back to us ? " “There is always hope, Kitty," replied he, gravely. “Where there is life," she answered. “But is there life? Is there any chance of his being alive ? ” 344 FALLElSf FORTUNES. Jeff did not answer, only beat softly with his fingers on the table, and looked most miserable. “You are loath to give me pain, she said. “I would not put you to pain unless there was a necessity for it. Dear papa has insured his life for our sakes. Is it worth while to pay the premium which has become due ? ” “ Oh yes,” returned the young fellow, eagerly. “ You can pay it under protest — that is, supposing that the policy should have fallen due already ; in which case you will get the money back again. And then you will make all sure. It is clearly the right thing to do, if — if — it can be done.” “It can be done,” returned Kitty, gravely. Ko more was said upon the subject. When Jeff was gone, and all the inmates of this little house, save herself, were fallen asleep, and freed from earthly cares, Kitty sat down and wrote her answer to Richard Holt. In her own name, and for herself, she thanked him for the payment of the premium. She spoke of it as a loan, of course, but expressed her sense of his generosity as well as of his forethought. She would not pretend that there was, as he suggested, no obligation ; she would not affect to understand that his kindness had not herself for its object. She would never encourage him ; nay, she would temporise and procrasti- nate as much as she could ; but her weapons — weak though she felt herself to be — should be at least fair weapons, and therefore hypocrisy could not make one of them. Many women will deceive and cajole even those they love; but this one was truth- ful to the man who, in her secret heart, was hateful to her. CHAPTER XLIII. IN THE COFFEE-HOUSE. The post flies quickly in town, and the next afternoon brought a letter from Mr. Holt, in reply to Kitty’s, and asking permis- sion to call on the ensuing day. She was well aware of the significance of this request ; he had called already without per- mission ; but this would be altogether a different sort of visit ; one wherein she could not deny nor excuse herself to him, and which would be paid to her alone. Even should he not ask the question upon which she knew he had so resolutely set his mind, this interview would be the forerunner to it, and in permitting it, she must needs foreshadow her reply. To think was torture ; to delay was vain. She sat down, and IN THE COFFEE-HOUSE. 345 wrote a few words at once to say that she should be at home at the hour he had named. The interval, which she had expected to pass in apprehensions of his arrival, was spent in fears of another kind. Jenny grew much worse, so bad that, in spite of her (for Jenny had small confidence in unknown doctors), Kitty yielded to Nurse Haywood’s advice, and called in the nearest practitioner. “ Aggravated febrile symptoms ; nervous debility ; and great cerebral excitement,” was his account of the patient. (He talked like a medical handbook, hut he was by no means ignorant of his business.) “ The young lady requires quiet — freedom from anxiety of all sorts. How does she chiefly employ her- self ? ” asked he, of Kitty. “ In reading and writing.” “ You mean by writing, composition ? I thought so. The very worst thing for her in her present condition. Reading she must have in moderation ; but pen and ink must he kept from her. And as soon as she is fit to he moved, I should recom- mend sea-air.” Kitty bowed in assent — she believed him the more because Jenny had always been recommended “ Brighton ” in the spring — and blushing, tendered him one of her ten guineas. “ You have not lived in Brown Street long,” he said, smiling. “ Science is cheaper here than in some places.” And he re- turned her thirteen shillings and sixpence. Freedom from greed is one of the many virtues of the medical calling ; but to poor Kitty this seemed only another proof how pitiful must be the case of her and hers, since even strangers compassionated it, and returned her money. “ Perfect rest ” and “ sea-air.” The prescription was doubt- less good, but could only be carried out in one way — at her own proper cost. If she had hitherto entertained a doubt of the sort of reception that she should give to Mr. Holt, she had none now. And yet things did not happen quite ^ as she ex- pected. Mr. Holt came indeed with the punctuality of clockwork, but matters had become by that time so serious with Jenny, that little else could be alluded to. “ I am very much shaken and unnerved,” said Kitty, plead- ingly ; “ you must forgive me if I do not acknowledge your late kindness as it deserves.” “ It deserves nothing,” returned Mr. Holt. “ I hope you will not pain me by alluding to such a hagatelleF (He ivould air his FALLEN FORTUNES. 346 French, even to her.) “But if I can be of real use, pray, command me. Now, with respect to Brighton ’’ “ My sister cannot be removed for weeks,’’ interrupted Kitty, quickly ; “ she is very, very ill.” “ Still, when she can^ I adjure you. to remember that the means will not be wanting. If your father were — were in England, do jou suppose he would spare any expense for such an object ? A hundred pounds, or a thousand ; what does it matter ? We have a saying in the City that ‘money may be bought too dear,’ but that does not apply to life.” His manner was most respectful, and yet tender; he took her hand in his, and pressed it as he said the words, “ Money may be bought too dear,” which was inopportune, to say the least of it. But she did not withdraw her hand. “ I entreat you,” he went on, “ not to add to your real sorrow, by worrying yourself about pecuniary troubles ; for so long as Bichard Holt is alive they are visionary. I shall send or call to inquire daily; but I shall not intrude upon you while youi sister remains so indisposed — unless it would be any relief to you to see me,” added he, with gentle pleading. “You are very, very good,” said Kitty. “ I am not fit to see anyone just now.” If he had hoped for any other answer, he did not show it. His behaviour was the perfection of patience and devotion. Kitty would have felt really sorry for him — as her mother had done — if she had not been so wretched on her own account. It was impossible to doubt that the man loved her ; and to be loved without return is almost as bad (to a kind heart) as to love under the like circumstances. “ Did you walk ? ” inquired she, mustering some show of interest him, as he took his leave. “ No ; I rode : my horse is at the corner of the street. I left it there because Mr. Derwent told me that your sister was so ill, and I feared the noise would disturb her.” This was thoughtful of him in one way, but he was foolish to have mentioned Jeff; it somehow stopped her thanks. “ Good-bye,” he said, “my dear Miss Dalton; or rather, I should say aurevoirF He came the next day and the next, but had no speech with Kitty. Her place was by her sister’s pillow, and she could not leave it. Thus once more it happened that by a caprice of Fate she was saved by one species of misery from the endurance of another. Weeks went by without much alteration in the con- IN THE COFFEE-HOUSE, ZA1 dition of the sick girl ; and then the spring came, and with it a little renewed vigour. In the meantime her story had appeared in “ The Smellfungus Magazine,” and achieved what in the periodical world is held to be a success. A second edition ol' that serial — the first had not been a very large one — had been called for in consequence. Mr. Sanders had written to Jeff a cautiously expressed letter of congratulation, bespeaking a ‘‘ more sustained work ” from the same “ gifted pen, combining fiction with antiquarian details.” ‘‘ The beggar takes me for Walter Scott,” was Jeff’s observa- tion. Yet he could hardly smile at this new proof of the editor’s misplaced confidence, for he knew that many a month must pass away before she, whose representative he was, could resume her pen, even if she could ever do so. He wrote to say that indisposition would incapacitate him for the present from writing for “ The Smellfungus ; ” and the next day Mr. Sanders met him at luncheon-time in a City oyster-shop, eating like Dando and drinking stout. You are writing for something else, you know you are,” exclaimed the editor with a burst of irritation. “ I should have thought the author of ‘ The Monk of Monkwearmouth ’ [Jenny’s successful tale] ‘had been more of a gentleman.” “ He is nothing of the kind, and never made any pretensions to it,” said Jeff, coolly. Mr. Sanders thought him more like Chatterton than ever. One morning, Mr. Holt received a telegram, which, as was usual with him, he opened in Jeff’s presence. His table was covered with letters every moroing, jet he received more tele- grams than letters, and none of these various communications ever seemed to move him. But on this occasion he leant back in his chair, and turned deadly pale. “ Are you ill, sir ? ” said Jeff, with interest. ‘‘ 1 feel a little faint ; it is the spring weather. Get me a draught of water.” When Jeff brought the glass, the telegram had disappeared, and his employer was consulting “ Bradshaw.” ‘‘ I shall have to go away from office to-day,” said he, speaking more thickly than his wont. “ I have been summoned to — Plymouth. There will be no business of any importance to transact, I believe.” “Very good, sir. In case anyone wishes to see you, when shall I say you will be back ? ” Mr. Holt did not answer. He seemed to be in difficulties FALLEN FORTUNES, 348 with his ^‘BradsLaw,” a work which he generally had at his fingers’ ends. “ Tell the boy to. fetc^h me a cab — a hansom,” said he, pre- sently. “ There is not a minnte to lose,” added he, as it to himself. Then, before Jeff could leave the room, his employer nttered so terrible an execration that the young fellow turned to look at him in astonishment. He had never heard him swear before, and it really seemed as though he were making up for past omissions in that respect. Mr. Holt’s usually calm face had become a sea of passion. “ I said a cab,” exclaimed he, imperiously. Jeff himself flew for a hansom, and as he caught one passing the archway out of the court, Mr. Holt was at his heels. He did not seem to notice him, and perhaps took him for the office boy, as he leaped into the vehicle. “ King’s Cross — and drive like the devil,” was his direction to the cabman. And the man drove off at the pace supposed to be affected by his Satanic majesty. In his hurry and passion, had his employer given the wrong address ? thought Jeff; or had his statement that he was going to Plymouth been an untruth ? Certainly King’s Cross was not the station for that town. He had left his letters behind him unopened — even those from Liverpool, where he had a small branch establishment, and which generally claimed his first attention. Something serious had certainly occurred. At eleven o’clock arrived Mr. Dawkins, a pretty frequent visitor in Abdell Court. He appeared greatly excited ; his neckcloth, always tight for his large throat, seemed almost to suffocate him, making his face to swell and his eyes to project in a very alarming manner. Where is your master ?” inquired he, hurriedly. “ Do you mean Mr. Holt ?” replied Jeff with stiffness. “ He is gone away. A telegram arrived for him this morning which took him out of town.” “Ay; to Liverpool, of course,” said Mr. Dawkins. Then the news is true, I suppose ?” “ What news ?” “ Look here, my young fellow,” said Mr. Dawkins, persua- sively, “ everybody must know it by this evening, and before your employer comes back : it is a question of hours. You cannot possibly do any harm by telling me just ‘ Yes or No’ about the Flamhorough Head. I can make it well worth your IN THE COFFEE-HOUSE. 349 while ; ” and he tapped his breast-pocket, v;liich was always bulging with bank-notes. Jeff looked at him severely. “ No ! roared he. He was very angry, but he knew that words — as a vehicle for moral sentiments at least — would be wasted upon Mr. Dawkins. “ Do you mean that the news isn’t true, or that you won’t take the money ?” asked Mr. Dawkins. “ I don’t know the news, and I don’t want your money,” an- swered Jeff, contemptuously. “ This is ridiculous,” said Mr. Dawkins, regarding him attentively. “ Look here, young man : if anything should happen to your employer — I don’t say it will, mind, but if it should — you may hear of something to your advantage by calling at this address.” He pulled out a card and threw it on the table. ‘‘ What luck Holt has ! ” he murmured as he left the room. “ But w^here on earth could he ever have met with such a boy ? ” Just before one o’clock, Jeff the Incorruptible had another visitor. A commissionaire called with a note for “ Geoffrey Derwent, Esq.” Immediate ; Bearer waiis^ was underlined upon the envelope. “ Are you Mr. Derwent ? ” inquired the messenger, scrutini- slngly ; “because I was to give this into your own hands.” “It is all right, my man. Are you from Islington ? ” Jeff was afraid there might be bad news from Brown Street, where he had called every night and morning. But the handwriting of the letter, which consisted of but a few words, was strange to him : “A friend wishes to see you at once upon important business at the Bold Templar’s Coffee- house, Ludgate Hill. Please keep this communication private. Ask for Mr. Phelps.” When Jeff looked up, the messenger had vanished. The young gentleman w^as not of a romantic turn of mind. “ I believe it’s Sanders, who wishes to keep me under lock and key till I have produced a three-volume novel,” mused he. “ In that case I shall be a prisoner for life. Or perhaps it’s a dodge to get into the office.” This last idea seemed probable enough ; and before Jeff left he gave the policeman a hint to look after the premises in his absence, since the boy in charge was but an inefficient guard. It was his own time for dinner, so he had no compunctions about spending some portion of his usual hour in answering the mysterious summons, which considerably excited his curiosity. There was a teetotal smack about the Bold 350 ALLEN FORTUNES. Templar’s Coffee-house ; bufc none of Jeff’s acquaintances were teetotalers, having most of them the power of imbibing spirituous, or at least malt liquors, without getting hopelessly intoxicated. Perhaps, after all, the whole thing was a hoax, to which, species of humour the young gentlemen of the Stock Exchange are almost as much given as their seniors. At all events, Jeff was resolved to see it out. As he passed by Lloyd’s, two men pushed by him talking eagerly, and he thought he heard one of them mention the Flamborougli Head. Was it humanly possible that that vessel had come safe to port, after so many weeks and months ? His reason told him it was not ; and yet the incident, taken into connection with Holt’s summons to Liverpool and Mr. Hawkins’ hint about great news, was curious. The Bold Templar’s Coffee-house was a third-rate establishment, situated, not in the main thoroughfare of Ludgate Hill, but in one of the small streets to the south of it. So unpromising, indeed, was its appearance, that had it been evening instead of noonday, Jeff might have hesitated to enter it on such an invitation as he had received. But as it was, he walked in unconcernedly enough, and inquired of a very dirty waiter, who was lounging in the passage, with a napkin under his arm that matched his linen, for Mr. Phelps. The man nodded, and led the way through a swing-door into a low-roofed and dingy coffee-room, arranged in compartments like tall old-fashioned pews. “ Gent for Mr. Phelps,” said the waiter, sharply; and imme- diately from the farthest corner there emerged a stranger, who came forward to meet the visitor. A stranger, as I have written, he was to Geoffrey Derwent, and yet there was something about the man not wholly un- familiar to him. His face was dark and wrinkled, and his hair was grey ; but his eyes were bright and piercing. He had never seen so old a face with eyes so young before, save once. “ It was good of you to come so soon, Mr. Derwent, and on so unceremonious a summons,” said he, in grave tones. “ Oblige me by sitting down for a few minutes, and hearing what I have to say.” He pointed to a seat in the compartment next to that from which he had risen, and lighted better than most by a dusty window. Then Jeff could see that the man was curiously clothed, like one who had just come from travel in foreign lands, and to whom either time or means had been wanting to equip himself m THE COFFEE-HOUSE. 351 like other people. The latter was probably the case in this instance, for even such clothes as he had were worn and threadbare, as well as being of too slight a texture for the season. Jeff gazed at him long and earnestly ; while his new acquaint- ance, as though to give the opportunity of doing so, drew out a note-book and cut a pencil. “ We have met before, I believe, Mr. Derwent ? said he presently, as if in reply to this examination. “ Never. But you bear a strong resemblance to one very dear to me, though you are an older man.’^ “ You mean John Dalton “Yes.” “ I am his half-brother, Philip Astor,” returned the other, still more gravely than before ; “ and it is of John Dalton that I w'ish to speak with you.” “ Have you any news of him, sir ?” inquired Jeff, eagerly, “your tone gives me little hope; and yet there is a report — or at least some sort of talk — in the City that the Flamhorough Head has come into pert.” “ Indeed ! returned the other with some surprise. “ I am sorry to say, however, the news is false. You are acquainted, I believe, not only with my half-brother, but with his family. Be so kind as to speak out, as I am a little deaf.” “ I am well acquainted with them,” answerd Jeff in distinct tones ; “ they are the dearest friends I have in the world.” “ And yet they are in bad circumstances, I understand ?” “They are not rich. When one says ‘dear,’ one docs not always mean a money value,” returned Jeff, coldly. He beg*an to dislike this man, with whom, too, he now remembered Mr. Dalton had had some sort of quarrel or litigation. “ The object of my inquiries is a friendly one, I do assure you,” observed the other, reading his thoughts. “ I wish to be assured of our friends’ welfare, that is all.” He paused ; then, with a slight tremor in his voice, continued: “Are they all well?” “ Kitty is well.” “ And still Miss Kitty, I suppose ? ” put in the other, quickly. “ Certainly,” returned Jeff, with heightened colour. “ And she is not engaged to any one that you are aware of ? Well, well, I only asked, meaning no offence. And how are the rest of them ? ” 352 FALLEN FORTUNES. “ Jenny lias been very ill, but she is getting somewhat better. She was always delicate, as you are probably aware ; and her poor mother’s death ” “I know, I know,” interrupted the other, hastily; “that sad news has already reached me.” A heavy sigh broke forth from somewhere in the darkness of the room. “ What is that ? We are not alone,” said Jeff, angrily. “ I do not choose to speak thus of the affairs of others in the presence of strangers.” “ It is a friend of mine in the next box.’^ “ I don’t care who it is. I won’t ” Here Jeff stopped short, transfixed with awe. A face was looking down upon him over the next partition which he had never thought to see again. It was a worn and weary face, older by ten years than when he had seen it last — as old as that of his present companion, senior (as Jeff knew) to him by many, many years — but it was that of John Dalton. “ Jeff, do you know me P ” said a weak and half-choked voice, very different from those musical tones that had once won every ear. “ Oh yes, Mr. Dalton. God be thanked ! What joy, what happiness you will have brought with you ! ” “ Do you think so ? ” inquired the other, eagerly, as they pressed each other’s hands. “ Have they forgiven me, and not yet forgotten me — my dear ones ? ” “ Sir, they think of you and pray for you — I know Kitty prays for your return even yet — every day and night.” “ My Kitty, my own bright Kitty ! Jenny, you say, is better. And the boy — dear Tony ? ” “ He is as blithe as June, sir, and as gentle. To see him w'atching by his little brother, amusing him ” “ Ay, there is another,” said Dalton, gloomily. “ Her baby “ And as jolly a little baby as one would wish to see,” inter- posed Jeff, cheerfully. “ He is the plaything of the whole house, though Kitty and he are inseparables. They are all well, Mr. Dalton, and need only to see their father’s face again to be all happy.” “ God bless you, Jeff, for saying so ! I did not dare to ask about them myself, but got Philip here to be my spokesman. Where are they all ? ” IN THE COFFEE-HOUSE. 353 “ At Mrs. Haywood’s, in Brown Street. The old dame is delighted to have them, and they feel quite at home.” Perhaps there is not much temptation to leave it,” observed Dalton, significantly. “Are their friends kind ? ” “ Oh yes. There is Dr. Curzon — he came up expressly to see Jenny; and, and M^hy, who could help being kind to them ? “ I see one who could not help it ; but I should like to hear of others. Tell me the truth, Jeff*. Are mj children quite deserted? Do none of all my old acquaintances visit the mother- less and the poor in their affliction, for my sake or their own P ” “ Well, you see, Jenny has been ill of late “Was it infectious, then?’’ inquired the other, appre- hensively. “Ho, it was not infectious; but when there is illness, it is well to keep a house quiet; and, besides, Kitty made up her mind, when she found herself in charge of the family, and there was a necessity for great economy, to seclude herself as much as possible.” “ In spite of invitations and hospitalities,” said Dalton, bit- terly. “I see. The Biverside people, however, have surely not forsaken them ? ” “ There was a misunderstanding with Mrs. Campden, sir. Jenny returned some money that she had sent them or lent them ; and there has been a breach.” “ And ‘ Uncle George ’ took his wife’s part ? ” “Upon my life, sir,” said Jeff, earnestly, “ I don’t think he could help it.” “ He must have some good in him, since you stick by him, Jeff,” answered Dalton, with a faint smile. “You see how it is, Philip. There are just three — Dr. Curzon, Mrs. Haywood, and this one here. Just three. Think of it.” “ And a very good average,” returned Astor, curtly. “ I have got one friend, just one. And perhaps I shall not have him long,” added he, moodily. “ As long as he lives, Philip,” returned Dalton, quietly taking the other’s hand. “ Jeff*, you have stood by me, and mine. Take my brother also into your wide and loving heart. It is through him, next to God, that I am now alive. It is through him that those who, I have just heard you say — and bless you for it — were dearest to you, are about to be made happy. I cannot see them to-day — at least not yet. I have something to do first; something” — here his voice grew very harsh and stern — “ that has nothing to do with happiness, but A A FALLEN- FORTUNES. 354 with woe, and wrath, and retribution. Yon are in Richard Holt’s employment, it seems, as good men have been before you. Where is he ? ” “ He left his office this morning, he said, for Plymouth, but as I have reason to believe, for Liverpool.” Dalton and Astor exchanged significant glances. “ 111 news flies apace,” said the latter. ‘‘ What matters it? He cannot escape us.” “ That is true,” answered Dalton, in a slow tone of satis- faction. ‘‘ He would have to take my life ere he could do that.” “ And mine, John,” observed Philip, in a tone of reproach. “ I know it,” returned Dalton, with tender gravity ; “ but you and I are one, brother.” CHAPTER XLIV. RETROSPECTIVE, When Dalton arrived at Liverpool upon the day of his leaving Riverside, it was too late to go on board the Flamhorough Head, and therefore, notwithstanding his desire to be economical, he was compelled to sleep at an hotel. The next morning was a wet one ; yet, for the sake of a few shillings, he sent his luggage by a porter’s truck, and went down through the rain to the docks on foot. It was just such an arrangement of the “ penny-wise and pound-foolish ” sort as those unaccustomed to frugality are wont to make ; and grievously did he afterwards repent of it. He found everything on board in confusion ; there was a diffi- culty, or seemed one, about getting at the contents of his portmanteau ; his cabin, indeed, was infinitely better than he had expected, thanks to his wife’s kind extravagance, and not a moment was to be lost in acknowledging that. One thing and the other, in short, combined to make him careless of so small a matter as damp raiment, and the end of it all was rheumatism in the knees. This is a malady — let those who enjoy the ac- quaintance of sciatica boast as they please — not easily matched for habitual discomfort, and it crippled Dalton. It was some time before he could leave his cabin and so much as crawl about the saloon, and even then he was subject to severe relapses. On one of his “ better days ” he managed to make the grand tour of the vessel ; he was on that part of the deck appropriated to second-class passengers, when suddenly his pains came on, and he fell rather than sat dowm upon a coil of rope. kETROSPECTIVE, 35S You are ill, Mr. Dalton ; shall I give you an arm ? said someone in cold but courteous tones ; and, looking up, he saw his half-brother. The phrase “ more familiar than welcome,'^ which would have suited with the sight of Astor's face a few days back, had now no meaning for Dalton. Any face that he had known of old, and which therefore reminded him of home, was welcome to him. “ What ! you here, Philip ? ” said he, with genuine emotion. A pleased expression flitted across the other’s grave grey fea- tures ; for hitherto his half-brother had been scrupulous to call him “ Mr. Astor.” “Yes, John, it is I. I suppose I must say I am sorry to see you, since you are outward bound, like myself, but, unlike me, have left so many dear ones behind you. You are in pain, I fear, too ? ” “ I have got a touch of rheumatism ; that is all. But how came you here ? I thought, from what Holt told me, you had left England some time ago.” “ It is not well to believe what Bichard Holt tells you about anything,” answered the other, bitterly. “ I should have thought you had found out that for yourself by this time. If otherwise, I am surprised you speak to me, after what he must needs have told you about me.” “ He told me nothing, except that he was dissatisfied with you ; by which I understood that you had parted company on account of some business disagreement.” “ Dissatisfied ? ” echoed Astor, contemptuously. “ Yes, he has cause to be dissatisfied with me : he took me into his employ- ment upon speculation — in the hope that, after all, I should ' make good my claim of legitimacy against yourself. He didn’t tell you that, I’ll warrant.” “ No, indeed,” said Dalton. “ On the contrary, he gave me to understand — though he never actually said so — that he re- tained you out of his regard for me.” “Regard for you!^^ exclaimed Astor, with a bitter laugh. “ Why, he would have put all your money into my pocket — minus what he claimed as his own share — if the thing could have been done. I would have gained from you what I con- I sidered my own, Mr. Dalton — as I still consider it — but I would never have played you false, as he did.” ^ “ But you have quarrelled with him, you confess yourself ? ” remarked the other, cautiously. He had his own suspicions of his late business friend, but he felt that that was no reason for I believing all that a personal enemy might say against him. PALLEN POkTUl^ES. 356 “Yes, we have quarrelled,” answered Astor, frankly ; “ and, legally, it is I who have been in the wrong. He led me to imagine that I was his partner. The whole plot is plain to me now ; but I was deceived as easily as a child by a trick at cards. John, tell me the truth. Did that villain ever hint to you that I had forged his name ? ” “ Never, upon my honour, Philip : he would not have dared to do it.'^ “ I thank you, brother, for that word,” answered Astor, gravely. “ Well, he might have done it, and, in a sort of way, yet spoken what was true. He knew that I had meant no wrong, but it might have been hard to persuade others so. He gained a hold on me, at all events ; and when I got to know more of his affairs than was agreeable to him, he used his hold. I am no felon, John, believe me ; and yet, thanks to Richard Holt, I am transported. He has compelled me to leave England — as he has compelled you.” “He has not compelled me,” answered Dalton, haughtily. “ In fact, I am doing so contrary to his advice.” “ I understand,” said Astor, quietly. “ He wanted you to part with your shares ; but your motto was, ‘ Stick to the Lara.' ” “ Good heavens ! how do you know that ? Why — Philip — it was you who wrote that warning letter? ” exclaimed Dalton, in astonishment. “ If four words can be said to be a letter ; yes, I did. You are bound for Brazil, to discover if the advice be good, for your- self. Time will show ; yet, I think, you have acted wisely.” “But, Philip, why should you have done so? Why should you have taken the trouble to do so good a turn to one whose interests — and unhappily whose acts, though of necessity — have been so antagonistic to your own ? ” “ Well, there was a reason ; for which you yourself owe me no thanks.” “ I owe you thanks, whatever it was.” “ No. The thanks, if they turn out to be owed to anyone, are due to Kitty.” “ To my daughter Kitty ? ” “Yes; and my mece,” answered the other. “Listen, John. Years ago, when that unhappy litigation between us had re- sulted — though, as I thought, and as Holt thought, only tem- porarily — in my defeat, I set foot for the first time under yomr roof. We met; not cordially, but without ill blood; and you would have behaved, if I had permitted you to do so, with what RETROSPECTIVE, 357 you doubtless considered — and indeed wbat was so, from your point of view — with generosity. Well, we need not talk of that now. You refused to acknowledge me as your brother. As I left your house, full of wrath and bitterness, a little maiden, beautiful as a fairy, ran up io me in the hall, and with eager eyes exclaimed : ‘ Why, you are Uncle Philip ! ’ I snatched her up in my arms and kissed her. It was very illogical in me, no doubt — for if the little lady had known the circumstances of the case, she would probably have been the last to give me such a title — but I loved her for acknowledging the relationship that you denied. She has forgotten me, no doubt, but I never forgot her; and when, years afterwards, I discovered — no matter how — that my employer. Holt, was bent on making her his wife ’’ “Ah, you know that, too, do you? I have sometimes sus- pected it,” said Dalton, gloomily. “ Go on.” “ Well, I say, when I found that that false hound had dared to lift his eyes to Kitty, I swear I hated him for that worse than all the rest. I had no means of foiling him, of course ; but I felt that his opportunity could only lie in your necessity, and therefore strove to avert your ruin. What losses he has caused you, I know not ; my belief is he made a catspaw of you from the first, and has robbed you right and left ; but with the Lara he has still connection, that is certain. I heard from Brand (himself dismissed like me for knowing too much) that Holt was pressing you to sell your shares, and so I wrote to you to stick to them. That’s the whole story.” Much of this was, of course, news to Dalton, though somehow it only tended to confirm his own suspicions. Yet, after all, like them it was but vague. He had a greater distrust of Holt than ever, yet he had no more tangible ground than before for enter- taining it. Had the opportunity, for example, been at once afforded him of returning to England and taxing his late busi- ness friend with mal-practices, he would scarcely have taken advantage of it. No proof of any kind was to his hand. As time went on, however, and he got to know more of his half- brother, his confidence in him increased, and in proportion his suspicions of the man he had got by that time to consider their common enemy. The little episode of Kitty’s reception of her uncle touched her father’s heart, and out of it there fiowed a tenderness, not only towards Kitty herself, but towards him who had thus recalled her and spoken of her so fondly; while the anger Astor felt against Holt for daring to wish to win Kitty’s favour, combining with his own suspicions of that in- tention, made soinehow a still stronger bond between them. FALLEN FORTUNES. 358 The intimacy between the saloon passenger and the second- class man, as well as the nnmistakable family likeness between them, excited considerable curiosity and some comment ; and here again Dalton endeared himself to Philip by at once owning him as his half-brother, without saying a word of his illegiti- macy. John’s mother was supposed to have been married again to a person of larger means than her first husband, and hence the difference of the social position of the two brothers. It was generous of him, for it cost some sacrifice of pride, but Philip was more than grateful for it. No liberality which John had shown him in the past touched him half as nearly. Unhappily, he was in no position to repay him ; for he was going to Brazil a mere adventurer, as friendless, and even more penniless than his kinsman ; but as a comforter and, when occasion required, as a sick nurse, his companionship was invaluable. The two men would sit together for hours talking over Holt’s conduct, chiefly in relation to John; speculating as to whether he had played him false in this and that affair, but especially concerning the mine. And then for relief they would turn to Kitty, of whom Philip was never tired of hearing ; and from her John would diverge to his wife and the other children, and find at least a patient and apparently an interested listener. It was curious how the adversity which thus knit John to Philip isolated him from the rest of his fellow-creatures. His genial nature had been nipped and frozen by its cold breath, and where the blossoms of wit and fancy had been wont to hang in such profusion, there was naught now but bare boughs. If to anyone among the saloon passengers on board the Flam- borough Head the social reputation of John Dalton was known by repute, he must needs have thought it ill-earned. Dalton was, to be sure, an invalid ; but even when he was able to take his seat at table, or hobble up to smoke a cigar upon the deck, he did not mingle in the conversation, but sat in silence and sad thought. He was polite, of course, and answered when ad- dressed ; but that was all. There were some young ladies on board who interested him — by some faint resemblance perhaps to Kitty or Jenny; but he was constantly asking himself how it wn« with Edith and the little household at Sanbeck. The reco ;tion of the unpaid premium to the Palm Branch also occurred to him, and gave him great uneasiness ; for though he strove to believe that Mr. Campden would surely discharge that debt for him, his thoughts were full of bitterness and disbelief in the loyalty of all friends. From the little gaieties and amuse- ments of life on shipboard he shrank with pain except on one jRETROSPECTIVE. 359 occasion. The pretty custom had just come in vogue of com- mitting a miniature vessel, decked with ribbons, and named after some young lady-passenger — to mid-ocean, laden with letters for England, in hopes that some homeward-bound ship would pick it up and act as postman. In this case, the fairy craft happened to be named the Edith; and since it could but carry a very limited mail-bag, there was much competition for the privilege of sending letters by it. The coincidence of the name with that of his wife made John strangely solicitous to he one of the favoured few, and he succeeded in his desire. Per- haps his only happy hour on board the Flamhorough Head was during the launching of this fragile toy ; his eyes were the last to watch it as it rose and fell upon the calm bosom of the ocean in their wake. After that day there was no more calm. Stormy weather set in, and with it the pangs of his rheumatism in- creased. Pie was confined to his berth, and day and night lay listening to the roar of wind and wave. Philip came to him, and sat by his side, conversing as long as it was possible to converse ; but after a time the gale so increased that no human voice could well be heard One day — it was but noon, but the cabin window was so hidden by sheets of water that it was almost dark — John asked with difficulty, “ Is there danger, Philip ? ’’ His brother nodded gravely, holding on meanwhile to the side of the berth. The ship so pitched and lurched that the floor was as often the ceiling as the floor ; the howling of the win’d and the roar of the sea were deafening and incessant ; but above them both could be heard hurried movements upon the deck. ‘‘ They are getting out the boats. Is it not so, Philip ? ” ‘‘I will go and see. Ho not fear, brother; I will not desert you.’’ ‘‘I fear nothing — only for my poor wife and the children; thank God, I am well within the days of grace, however.” John Dalton’s thoughts, amid that whirl and woe, were centred on the premium of his life assurance. Presently the door was burst open — it would open in no other way now — and Philip rushed in. “ Quick, quick ! You must get up ; and I will carry you on deck.” “Hot I,” answered Dalton, resolutely. “What should I do, a poor cripple, in this tumult ? Could I jump into a boat ? Could I live in one if I did ? Ho. Let me drown in peace.” Philip’s only answer was to seize him in his powerful arms and drag him from his berth. FALLEN FORTUNES, 360 From thence, by immense exertion, he got him across the saloon; but up the cabin stairs, now steep, now sloping, and now staggering towards them like a thing of life, it was impos- sible to carry him : he was not only a helpless cripple, but every movement gave him torture. “ Leave me, Philip, leave me ! ” exclaimed he, vehemently. “ God will reward you, though He will not suffer you to save me. Tell Edith my last breath was There was a rush of water down the cabin stairs that swept the men apart, and dashed the speaker senseless against the cabin wall. When he came to himself, he was lying on the floor wet through ; the turmoil of the elements had nowise abated, but the trampling and hurrying overhead had ceased. Sometimes all was in darkness — when the maimed and shattered vessel fell into the trough of the sea — and sometimes there was light enough to behold the devastation and wreck of the saloon as the ship battled to the surface, and was hurried on the crest of a w^ave. From her aimless and uncertain progress, it was evident that she no longer obeyed the helm, but was rolling like a log, now under, and now above the water. If John’s personal discomfort had been less, he might even now have congratulated himself that he had lived his life thus long, and had not ended it upon Bleabarrow Crags, as he had once thought to do : Edith could now have no sort of difficulty in realising the five thousand pounds from the Foilm Branch, and there would be no guilt of self-murder upon his soul. But his knees gave him such intolerable pain that he could think of little else. He contrived, however, to drag himself on to one of the couches let into the sides of the saloon, and pre.-ently swooned away there. When Dalton next woke to life he was in his own berth ; the roar of the tempest had greatly diminished, but there was a slush and whirl of water in his ears ; and he perceived — or was he dreaming ? — that some articles in his cabin w'ere advancing to and retreating from him in the strangest manner : they were in fact afloat. From the complete absence of any sound save that of the elements, it was plain to Dalton that the ship was deserted. Yet how, if this were so, could he have been con- veyed back to his berth ? His pains had abated, but he was faint and sick with hunger, and conscious of some strange dis- turbance in his brain. Was it a dream, or was it the fact, that some one was splashing about the cabin ? Dr. Curzon, perhaps, upon his pony : yes, and wuth a prescription too, W'hich he per* RETROSPECTl VE, 361 sisted in thrusting into his mouth — a* mixture of biscuit and brandy, which so revived him, that he presently sat up, and said : “ Hollo, Philip ! ’’ “ Hollo, old fellow,” answered his half-brother, cheerily ; “ the old ship floats, you see, still.” “ Yes ; only the water is inside of her as well as outside of her ; is it not ?” said Dalton. It was a point that puzzled him, and which he really wished to have cleared np ; bub the other mistook it for a joke. “ Come, that is spoken like yourself, John, You are getting round now, though you have had a bad touch of it.” Then Dalton began dimly to comprehend that he had been ill for days. “ Where is everybody, Philip ? ” inquired he, suddenly. “ The ship is water-logged : as for the people, I don’t know for certain,” answered Philip, gravely; “but I fear that yon and I are all that now remain of them. That day when you saw me last — to know me — was one I shall never forget. The scene on deck was heartrending. The women You remember those two girls who launched the Edith ? ” John nodded : he remembered their doing that, “ Well, they clung about the captain like poor demented creatures at the feet of their idol. Their shrieks, their cries for help, where no help could come, while the wind and waves stormed at them like devils, were terrible to listen to. The launching of the boats was with great difficulty effected ; but some were staved in, and some were swamped with all on board, before our eyes. It was a sea, the captain said, such as it was scarce possible for a boat to live in. I told him how you were left below stairs ; but he said, taking into account your maimed condition, you had as good a chance of life — if chance there was — in remaining there, as in endeavouring to leave the ship.” “And youf^^ inquired Dalton, taking the other’s hand and pressing it with what little strength he had. “ Well, I thought I would see the thing out along with you, John. The boats, I verily believe, are lost, with all that went with them ; and the old ship herself was bound to have gone down too, but for some empty casks it seems she has below.” “ There is hope in your eyes, Philip ! ” cried the other, eagerly. “ Is a sail in sight ? ” “ Ho, indeed. Only, since the ship has floated so long, lop- sided and water-logged though she be ” “ There is land a-head ?” exclaimed Dalton, excitedly. 3^2 FALLEN FOR TUNES. ‘‘Youliavo hit it, John. There is land of some sort; and you must make shift to come on deck and look at it.” CHAPTER XLV. IN BRAZIL. To come on deck and look at it ” is not quite the professional phrase for sighting land and deciding upon its bearings. But the fact was that, except Dalton, there had probably not been a man on board the Flamhorough Head who knew less about nautical matters than Philip Astor. These two men were, in fact, the very last that a ship’s captain would have selected to help him to navigate a vessel, and almost the last whom any- one would have chosen as coadjutors in such an adventure as lay before them. Dalton was a product of the highest civilisa- tion, if not of culture. His natural place was in drawing- rooms and club-houses ; he had never done anything of a menial, or indeed a useful kind since he had been a fag at Eton, and was “ blown up ” (and worse), like another King Alfred, for burning his master’s toast. The idea of his being shipwrecked on a desolate island was preposterous, and should have placed the stern Fate that brought him there among the first class of humorists. Philip Astor had, it is true, been more knocked about in the world, but the shifts and contrivances to which he had been pushed had been those of town life ; he knew scarcely more of what may be called the rudiments of life — how to build, to cook, to clothe himself, even to guess the time by the position of the sun — than his more highly placed half-brother. At present, however, he had much the advantage over him in health and vigour ; and he now put forth his strength to the uttermost to carry his companion through the slush of the saloon, and to assist him up the now sidelong staircase to the deck. Dalton was better, however ; he got aloug with much less difficulty than he had expected, and the fresh air revived him wonderfully. The prospect itself was not exhilarating. The storm had ceased, but left the sea of a dull leaden colour, as though its liver (as must certaiuly have been the case if it had one) had been much “ upset.” The ship it was a compliment to call a ship at all. The masts were gone, though the stumps were left, and one of the steam-funnels; some broken rigging was trailing in the watei’, which was level with the bulwarks on one side, while the other was lifted up, and to a landsman’s IN BRAZIL. 3^3 eye threatened an overturn every moment. To stand upon the sloping deck without holding on to some fixed object was impos- sible. Still the vessel moved, though very slowly, and fortu- nately in the direction favourable to the voyagers’ hopes. In front of them lay a low, scantily- wooded island, wdth sandy shore, and to this they were tending, though not in a straight course. The wind was slight, and from the north-east, and bore them towards a rocky promontory to the south of the island, which formed one side of a little bay. If the ship should drive ashore inside this promontory, matters might go well ; but if outside, there was the open sea again, where the question of her remaining afloat could be only one of a few hours at farthest. The helm, even if she had a rudder — which was more than doubtful — was gone, and the two men watched the course of the vessel in utter helplessness. Suddenly the wind shifted a little, and turned her head more to the south-east ; that is, to seaward. It was now obvious that she was about to miss the promontory. The two men looked at one another in silent despair. Then suddenly Dalton cried : Can you find a hatchet, Philip ? ” Fortunately, in a corner of the deck there was one — the last left of many that had been used to cut away the ship’s gear on that terrible day. “ If we can get rid of that rigging, perhaps she will wear a bit.” A few powerful strokes from Philip’s arm freed the ship from this encumbrance, and at once she rose a little in the water, and altered her course as was desired. It was not just then a time for compliments, but afterwards Philip told John that from that moment he was reconciled to the idea of his (John’s) having succeeded to the Dalton pro- perty ; for that a man with such intelligence deserved to be the head of the family. Thus the dismasted ship, though rolling and swaying, yet floated into what, by comparison with where she had been, might be called port ; that is to say, under the sheltered side of the promontory, close to which, and in almost shallow water, she grounded upon the sand, as safe (while the weather continued fine) as though she were in the London Docks. Of this much in respect of their common adventures both John and Philip often spoke ; but with regard to their subse- quent life upon the spot they had thus had the good fortune to reach, these twin Crusoes were very reticent. The fact was 3^4 FALLEN FORTUNES. that from their excessive ignorance, they got on worse than almost any persons in such a situation could have been expected to do. The island, a small one, lying to the south of the West India group, and little else than barren rock, could certainly not have sustained them had they been dependent upon the development or even the realisation of its resources. But for- tunately for them, the sea had not robbed the Flamhorough Head of its contents, although it had damaged much of them excessively. They lost no time in removing all the stores they could lay their hands on to land, and took up their abode in a cave upon the promontory, on which they erected a flag, to call the attention of any passing ship. They had to thank the island for nothing save indeed for a limpid spring, without which it might have gone hard with them, neither of them possessing that kind of genius that hits upon scientific plans of extracting fresh-water from plants, precious stones, or even from salt water. Before they got to the end of their preserved meats and vegetables, their “ extracts ” of this and that, and their ship biscuits, a Spanish vessel, bound for II o, passed by, and, seeing their signal, sent a boat, and brought them oft. They came away in very good case, and almost fit to be Fellow's of All Souls, hene nati (though one of them, it is true, the law held to be illegitimate), hene vestiti (for they had had all their fellow- passengers’ clothes to choose from, besides their owm) ; et medio- criter docti^ that is to say, they were almost as ignorant of how to provide for themselves as when they landed. Yet they had learned something : to respect one another very heartily, and also — this was especially the case with John — to look upon life otherwise than through the tinted spectacles of society. He had had cause to recognise very literally ‘‘ a man and a bro- ther ” in his unacknowledged kinsman, to whom he owed his life twice and thrice over. If Philip had not remained with him on board ship, he would have perished in his narrow cabin, or certainly have never reached land ; and if he had reached land, he would have perished there, but for Philip’s companion- ship, cheerfulness, and sympathy. Even as it was, he had been consumed with apprehensions about those dear ones he had left at Sanbeck, and only too truly, as we know, had his heart mis- given him respecting Edith, overwhelmed as she must needs be by this time with the news of the loss of the Flamhorough Head. His dead wife, his orphaned children, were spectacles that were rarely absent from his eyes, and he had needed all Philip’s san- guine arguments and pleasant prophecies to win him froin m J^KAZIL. 36s despondency. ]?or the rest, his ont-of-door life and simple fare had physically bettered him ; he had got rid of his lameness, and felt himself strong enough for any hardships that might yet lie before him in his quest. Upon visiting San Jose, and seeing with his own eyes how matters w^ere with the gold mine, his mind was as fixed as ever : much as he yearned for home, he was resolved not to return thither with the mission unac- complished for which he had left it ; and the opportunity was now — at last — afforded him of effecting his object. The two castaways had a sufficient stock remaining of the good things saved from the Flamborough Head to make them very welcome on board the Cadiz without the payment of passage money ; so Dalton’s slender purse was still intact upon their arrival at Kio. Here, however, misfortune was awaiting him ; a letter that had long been lying for him at the post-office informed him of his wife’s death. His forebodings, as we know, had pointed that way with an inexorable finger, but they had not prepared him for it, and for a time the news utterly overwhelmed him. To say that Edith had been his better-half, his alter ego, and the good angel of his life, so far as he had permitted her to be so, was feebly indeed to express what she had been to him ; and with his anguish there was mingled the most bitter remorse ; for had he not killed her with the work of his own hands ? Out of the very depths of his wretchedness, however, came a motive for action ; all the reparation he could now make to his lost love and lover was to further the interests of her children. Whether they were still left to him, or in what plight, he could not tell, nor had he the means of informing them that they had yet a father, since, unhappily, the mail-boat had left Rio the very day before his arrival. There was time to reach San Jose and return before the next steamer left the port for England ; so the two brothers at once started for their destination. They had to husband their re- sources, and travelled slowly, and with what, six months ago, Dalton would have felt to be great discomfort, much increased by their ignorance of Spanish, or of the native tongue. And even when they reached San Jose, they found they had by no means accomplished their journey. The Lara mine, about which people seemed to know little or nothing, was still far away, and since it lay out of the main track, they were compelled to push on thither on foot. The scenery was splendid. They were always in sight of the stupendous Cordilleras, although they scarcely seemed to ap* PALLEN EOkrVNE^, 366 proacli tiiem nearer. The gold district lay between them and these mountains. In the good old times, the precious metal had been exclusively the produce of alluvial washings ; but these had long become exhausted, and the gold now yielded was dug deep up out of the solid rock, which cropped up on the surface in dome-like masses, often covered with foliage. If Dalton's mind had not been bent so earnestly on a single end, he could not but have been enchanted with these scenes, in which men contended so energetically wdth Nature and yet could not mar her beauties. The two friends had passed by three such mines, and on the third morning of their travels came upon a fourth. They asked its name of one they met upon the road who knew a little English, and he had told them it was called the Q>Mto. It was situated in the most beautiful spot they had yet reached. “Forest on forest " hung above it “like cloud on cloud,” so that, though itself in an elevated region, it looked sunk in a shady vale. A little river ran through it, which turned the stamping- mills and the pumping machinery, which was in full action. The din was incessant, yet by no means deafening ; and the bustle and movement, contrasted with the quietness and sub- limity of its natural surroundings, were very striking. The chief engineer — who was one Mr. Blake, as usual an Englishman — gave a welcome to his two wandering fellow-countrymen that was more than cordial ; there being no inn in the place, he in- vited them to dine, and after that repast showed them over the works, which were of considerable extent. Not content with watching the tram-carriages, bearing each a ton of the mineral, coming steeply up from the shafts, they descended in them to the depth of nearly a thousand feet to the very home of the gold. Afterwards they had explained to them how the rough rock gives forth its treasure ; saw it freed from slate upon the spalling-floors, and afterwards stamped fine, issuing through the copper grates, to pass over the bullock skins, and — lower down the inclined tables — over woollen cloths, the washing of which yields the golden fruitage. Then they once more re- paired to Mr. Blake’s one-storied dwelling, tiled and slated,, with its broad verandah hung with flowers and creepers, to be again refreshed before they started on their way. With par- donable pride he spoke of the Quito's prosperity, which, he said, vras but of recent date. He had been its engineer but for a few months, and had taken it when it was in a very depressed con- dition. There had been even a doubt as to whether it would repay working at all, all its ancient wealth having been sup- posed to be exhausted. MINE AND COUNTER-MINE, 367 His wife, also English, listened to the story of his achieve- ment as though she had heard no word of it before. “Your friend has suffered a recent loss, I fear ? ” observed the engineer apart to Philip, for Dalton was in deep mourning ; and the spectacle of the domestic happiness of his host and hostess, and of their prosperity, touched his bruised heart with a sense of contrast. “ Yes,” returned Philip ; “ losses of all kinds. His wife is dead, and his fortune has been spent in the same sorb of adven- ture that has turned out so differently in your case.” “ Indeed ; I am sorry for it. The fact is, only about one in six of these Brazil mines, formerly so profitable, now pay their expenses. There is also a de'al of roguery about some of them, very difiBcult for those who are not upon the spot — I mean for English shareholders — to get to the bottom of. I am afraid some of my own calling — who are my fellow-countrymen, like yourselves — do not always keep their hands clean. The agents, the experts, and the engineers, have it all their own way, you see, out here.” “ Just so. Well, we are now bound for my friend’s mine ; just such a one as you have described, I fear ; the Lara, and if you can tell us anything about it, he will be greatly indebted to you.” “ The Lara ! ” echoed the engineer. “ Are you really serious ? Did you come from England to look after the Lara ? ” “ Yes; though, I am afraid, upon a fool’s errand. The people at Bio and those we have met upon the road seemed to know little or nothing about it ? ” “Are you talking about the Lara?''" here put in Dalton, earnestly. “ Can our host tell us anything about it, Philip ? Pray, don’t fear to tell me the worst, Mr. Blake,” added he, addressing his host. “ I don’t know what you mean by ‘ the worst,’ Mr. Dalton,” returned the engineer, curtly; “but I have only to say that this mine here is the Lara. It has only been called the Quito for the last six months.” CHAPTEB XLY I. MINE AND COUNTER-MINE. Mr. Blake’s astounding announcement was of course a revela- tion to his two guests, but they had the prudence to conceal the fact as best they could. The engineer was a thoroughly honour- able fellow, and thoroughly loyal to his employers. It would have been difficult to convince him — and on the whole Dalton PALLET FORTUNES. 368 thouglit It better not to try — ibat the mine with the conduct of which he had been entrusted — and here again Holt had shown his peculiar idiosyncrasy in favour of honesty in other people — was in fact a swindle of the most Machiavelian kind. Instead of existing on paper only, like other fraudulent institutions of a similar class, it did not exist on paper — that is, under its real name — at all, but had a very actual and hona fide existence in fact. The last local agent of the Lara, Brooks, had been in the pay of Holt, and had played into the hands of his creature Tobbit, the expert, in representing the mine to the English shareholders as worked out and valueless. The whole affair had been transacted with consummate skill, but not, as we have seen, without exciting the suspicions of Philip Astor, and even of a certain financial circle in the City with which Sir Richard Beevor and Mr. Binks were connected. Up to this time, however, the real state of things was undiscovered, and for the present, Dalton thought it better it should remain so. Of the proofs of it he presently acquired full possession, but in dealing with so astute a scoundrel as Holt it was expedient to be very cautious ; while so long as the latter was kept in igno- rance of Philip and himself having been saved from the Flam- borough Head., they would have a great advantage over him. Dalton therefore confined the statement of his wrongs to the fact that endeavours had been made to persuade him to part with certain shares in the Lara, as being of no value. His account of the affair w^as not indeed very intelligible ; and Philip had to lend assistance by hinting that his brother’s grievance had — as grievances are apt to do — not left him altogether a logical being upon this particular topic ; but the pair so far suc- ceeded, that when they quitted Mr. Blake’s hospitable roof, that gentlemaa had no suspicion that he had been entertaining an angel unawares in the person of one of his proprietors ; w^hile, on the other hand, it was pretty evident to Dalton that the only individual who held any shares in the Lara beside himself was in truth Richard Holt, who held half of them, and had cer- tainly left no stone unturned to secure the other moiety ; while ill the meantime, as though already possessed of it, he had been receiving the proceeds of the whole, which made up a very sub- stantial income. “ But for your ‘ Stick to the Lara,^ Philip,” said John, with grateful frankness, “ I believe I should have let the scoundrel buy my shares of me for a song.” “ Hay, brother, it was not much to do — the writing those four words ; but I hope you will stick to me, in recollection of BREAKING IT. 3^9 tliem,” answered Philip. The words were said in jest, but the tone had a serious sadness in it, which stang the other to the quick. “ Do you doubt it, Philip ?’’ said he. Do you conceive it possible, that when I have grown rich again — ‘ assumed my former social position,’ as Mrs. Campden called it (I wonder how that woman is behaving to my poor children ; however, George will keep her straight), that I shall inherit with it my former follies; that I shall not know my true friends, those who have been tried in the fire — and the water — from the false ones, and above all, shall not cleave to the brother to whom I shall owe all ?” “We shall be quits,” said Astor, pressing his hand, “and more than quits, when you introduce me to Kitty as ‘ Uncle Philip.’ ” “ Then I hope we shall be quits within the next six weeks,” was John’s reply. They returned to Rio, however, only just in time to catch the steamer Sancho, the fore-cabin fare of which almost ex- hausted their finances. The ship was a slow one compared with the Flamborough Head, and Dalton was in such a state of impatience and anxiety throughout the voyage, that Philip feared he would have had a fever. A thousand apprehensions consumed him, and as many hopes : among the former was the dread that some news of their having been rescued by the Spanish vessel should somehow reach England before them, and set Holt upon his guard. From Liverpool they came straight to towm, yet not without some vague tidings of passengers having been picked up from the Flamborough Head preceding them, as we have seen, to London. So much, indeed, Holt’s Liverpool agent had tele- graphed to him as took him thither in hot haste to learn the truth. John and Philip had, however, taken the precaution to enter themselves on board the Sancho under false names, nor was it likely that they two of all that sailed in the ill-fa^ ed steamer should have come home to blast his fortunes. CHAPTER XLVII. BREAKING IT. Jeff remained at his post in Abdell Court for the remainder of that eventful day, though with a mind but little disposed for his business duties. As he had expected, how^ever, and to his great relief, his employer did not return. The young fellow B B 370 FALLEN LVRTUNES. would have fouud it difficult indeed to maintain in his presence that indifferent air and manner which Dalton had enjoined upon him ; and however successfully be bad played an assumed part with the editor of “The Smellfungus Magazine,” it is doubtful whether he would have been equally fortunate with Richard Holt. When the office closed he betook himself at once to Brown Street, where he found Jenny, for the first time since her illness, sitting in the upstairs parlour — to which, even with her ordinary lodgers, Mrs. Haywood hesitated to give the title of drawing-room, but modestly termed it her “ first- floor front.” There were flowers in the room, and in the window-sill there was a flower-box full of bud and blossom that filled the air wdth fragrance. “Is it not beautifal?” cried Jenny, drawing her visitor’s attention at once to this unwonted ornament. “Does not our room look a perfect bower ? ” “ A very proper cage for a sick bird to dwell in, till she is strong enough to fly at large in the sunny south,” answered J eflT, gallantly. “How, none of Jeff; I am not Mr. Sanders, remember; so please to stick to what I know is your proper element — prose. I can’t think what has come to dear Kitty, that she should suddenly rush into these extravagances. It is not only flowers, but all sorts of delights and delicacies ; and not for my sake only, for she has actually bought Tony a trap, bat, and ball ! One would have thought she had had a fortune left her — except for her face, poor darling.” Here her voice grew sud- denly grave. “ I am afraid there is something — I mean, more than Tony and the baby and myself — upon her mind, Jeff. I can’t make her out at all. She is sometimes quite extravagantly gay : a put-on manner, I am sure ; and then again she becomes more depressed than I have ever yet seen her ; and that alas ! I can see is natural. Do you know anything, dear Jeff, about my Kitty that I donH know ?” Jenny looked at him very earnestly as she said these words, but the young man’s face only reflected her own quiet sorrow. “JSTothing, I think, Jenny, that you don’t know,” he an- swered. “ She has avoided me — I may almost say shrunk from me — for this long time ; ever since you have been ill, indeed.” “ And she has seen Mr. Holt,” sighed Jenny. “ Oh, why — oh, why have I been struck down like this,” added she, passion- ately, “ and rendered a useless burden, while all things have been going wrong. Jeff, you’ll lose her : mark my words, we BREAKING IT, 371 ' shall all lose her, and she will fling herself away upon that man for our poor sakes/’ “Don’t, Jenny, don’t! I beseech you not to give way. Heaven will not permit so terrible a self-sacrifice.” “Ah, you think so,” returned Jenny, bitterly. “It is a happy faith.” “ It is a true one.” “ What, that horrible things are permitted to happen every day ? I see there is another mail from E/io : the Sancho has arrived. That makes the fifth; and still no news — no gleam of hope.” “ There is hope always, Jenny.” She looked up at him as quickly as the bird to which he had likened her, with swiftly scrutinising glance. “ He has come 1 Our father is alive 1 ” Then, but for his arm, she would have fallen. Her cheeks were white, her eyes were closed ; she lay upon his breast like a thing of stone. “ Great heaven ! have I killed her with my stupid folly ? ” exclaimed Jeff in horror. “ How could I hope to keep a secret from eyes like hers ! — Jenny, Jenny, speak to me ! ” “ I hear you : I shall live to see him yet ! ” she murmured faintly. “ Lay me down — with my face to the wall, Jeff. Leave me alone with my Maker, whom I have denied. He will send the tears presently.” “ You will not speak of this, Jenny — just yet ? ” said he, once more alarmed at her long silence. “To no human ear : no, Jeff. Leave me now, and go to Kitty.” Jeff left the room, closing the door softly behind him. In the little passage he met Hurse Haywood. “Well, Miss Jenny is getting on nicely. Master Geoffrey, is she not ? ” “ Yes, nurse. But she is tired, and wishes to get a little rest ; so do not let her be disturbed. Where is Kitty ? ” “ Lor’ bless ye ; why, where should she be except with the baby ? She can scarce ever be got to let him out of her sight. It’s my opinion, what with attending to that dear child, and housekeeping, and always being worried about this and that, as she is a-wearing herself out. I daren’t tell Miss Jenny, but I have come across Miss Kitty at times when she looks fit to break her heart, though she has always a smile and a kind word for a body when she speaks to one.” “ I hope she will speak to nurse. Please to say I wish to 372 FALLEN FORTUNES. see her on very particular business, and that I will not detain her long.’* As he waited in the sitting-room downstairs, revolving in his mind how he should break his great news to Kitty, but failing to hit upon a plan, there re-entered to him Mrs. Haywood. “ Miss Kitty is very sorry, sir, but she is much engaged ; and if you would kindly write her a line instead of seeing her ” “ I must see her,” interrupted Geoffrey, impatiently. “ Did you not tell her my business was very particular ? ” “ Well, yes. Master Jeff, I did ; and that was the very thing, to tell you the honest truth, as seemed to scare her. She has got enough and to spare on her poor mind already, you see.” “Please go and tell her, nurse, that it is absolutely indis- pensable I should see her, but that what I have to say will not distress her. Be sure you tell her iliat.^^ “ Lor’, Master Jeff, you ain’t a-got any good news for her, have you ? ” answered the old lady in a trembling voice. “ Nothing about Mr. John — him as I remember as young as you be, and as comely.” “ There is no time to lose about what I have to say,” answered Jeff, with as constrained a manner as nature permitted him to assume; “ and I do beg you will give my message.” His heart smote him at having to snub the good old dame, but he was also irritated at her sagacity, or rather at the transparency of his own attempts to conceal his errand. If his heart had been in literature, Mr. Sanders would have read him as easily as a proof-sheet : it was only where his feelings were not concerned that Geoffrey Derwent could play the hypocrite. While he was still conning that unwonted part, Kitty entered the room. “Well, Jeff, what is it ? ” cried she, holding out her hand. “ I never knew such a man of mystery. There is baby taking his first beef-tea, and yet Nurse Haywood says I must leave him to attend your highness.” Her air and manner were too light and gay to be natural to the occasion in any case ; but con- trasted with her looks, which were wan and worn beyond any- thing he could have anticipated, they seemed unreal indeed. Her eyelids were heavy and swollen, and on her fair white brow sat unmistakable care and woe. “I am not come upon my own affairs, dear Kitty,” said Jeff, assuringly, “ or I would not have been so importunate.” “ The affairs of no one else can interest me — and all of us — half so much,” she answered smilingly. “ I meant to say I should not have intruded here without a BREAKING IT. 373 sufficient motive, Kitty — that is all. The fact is that — that — Mr. Holt ’’ At that name a shadow fell on Kitty’s face and chased her smile away ; she had been standing hitherto, bat now at once sat down. “ That Mr. Holt has had a summons to Liverpool with respect to the arrival of the SanchoT “ Ah yes ; that is the Kio steamer,” she answered, sadly. ‘’The fifth that has brought no news.” “Well, it has brought news.” “ Of the Flamborough Head ? What news ? ” inquired Kitty, eagerly. “ The ship was wrecked — that’s certain; but there were some survivors — two.” “ Two,” repeated Kitty, mournfully ; “ but two ! ” “ It is not yet known for certain — that is, publicly — who they are; but — now don’t cry, Kitty, darling Kitty — but there’s a hope.” “A hope ? What! of papa’s being alive, and he not here ! I don’t believe it. I want no more such hopes, Jeff; I can’t bear them. They are killing me, I tell you ; they are driving me to I don’t know what I am saying, Jeff, but I can’t bear them.” Her head had fallen forward upon her open hands, and she was crying bitterly. “ Do you suppose I could come here to mock you, Kitty ? I came to comfort you, to gladden you.” “ To gladden me ? ” She shook her head ; her tone was as though he had suggested the most unlikely thing on earth ; and yet she raised her face all wet with tears. “ He is alive, Kitty ; your father is alive ! ” She looked like one awakened from a dream ; astounded, dazed : the light of joy was breaking on the night of woe, but very slowly. “ Alive ! Papa alive ! Where is he ? ” “In England. You will see him soon. 1 have seen him.” “Thank God, thank God!” she murmured. “Oh, thank God 1 ” Still she did not rise, nor show any passionate excitement, such as he had expected, and had seen in Jenny. “ Is he well, Jeff ? ” she went on slowly. “ Yes, quite well. Philip Astor is with him, and has been very, very good to him. He is to be called Dalton now, and re- cognised as his brother.” “ When shall I see him ? When is he coming ?_ Why is he not here ? ” 374 ALLEN FORTUNES. “ Because he feared the shock might be too much for you and Jenny. He is close by. Shall I fetch him in, or will you wait a little ? “ Wait a little — just a minute.’’ As she spoke, a joyful cry burst forth in the quiet street. Both glanced through the window, and on the other side of the way was Tony clasped in the arms of a thin grizzled man, in wayworn and outlandish garb. Behind them stood another. They were looking towards the house, and Jeff beckoned to them frantically, and ran to the front door. The next moment, Kitty, sobbing as though her heart would break, was strained passionately to her father’s breast. “Don’t cry, don’t cry,” he whispered, though the tears were falling down his own weather-beaten cheeks like rain; “and you have not yet kissed dear Philip — your uncle Philip.” CHAPTER XLVIII. DOES KITTY KNOW ? In Brown Street, Islington, was probably a happier reunion that evening than any which took place in more fashionable quarters of the town ; yet it was a happiness tinged with deepest sorrow. Dalton’s return brought with it to his children a keen sense of the loss of her who would have given him his fittest welcome ; and when his eyes rested upon his remaining dear ones, he missed bis Edith most. His first question, after his greetings with Jenny and the rest were over, was, “ Where have they laid her ? ” and he felt pained and sorrowful when he learned that it was at Sanbeck, hundreds of miles away; whereas, had it been possible, he would have visited her grave, and wept over it that very night. They told him too, at his own desire, of her illness and death : how she died, as it were, for very love of him, since the shock of his reported death had killed her. He was silent for many moments, sunk, as it seemed, in a stupor of grief, when Kitty stole from the room and brought down the babe — his Edith’s precious legacy, and placed it in his arms. “We four are still left to you, dear papa,” said she. She herself had been supported in her affliction by the sense that others were dependent upon her, and she hoped it might be the same with him. And so it was, though in a less measure. He presently grew himself again, and began to ask them about this and that. “ I hope the folks at Riverside have been kind to you, my darlings, since you have been all alone ? ” DOES KITTY KNOW^ 37S They meant to be kind, I think,” said Kate. Meant to be kind,” repeated her father, frowning. There is no difficulty about expressing kindness. At least Philip here found none, I know, in my case. Is there anything amiss with the Campdens ? What have they done, Jenny ? ” “Nothing,” answered Jenny, sententiously. “We did not like the manner in which Mrs. Campden be- haved to us after mamma’s death,” explained Kitty : “ it was more manner, perhaps, than anything else ; but our hearts were sore, and easily hurt.” “ Jenny, tell me,” said Dalton. “ That woman has behaved badly to you. Is it not so ? ” “ Not only ‘that woman,’ but the whole family, in my opinion,” returned Jenny, dryly. “ Surely not Uncle George ? ” “ Uncle George is nobody at Riverside ; if he had been any- body, there is no saying what might have happened; but he is not. It is a wretched story from beginning to end, and they are wretched people.” “ If it be so,” said Kitty, reprovingly, “ do not let us talk about them on a night like this.” “ I am sure I never wish to mention their names,” answered Jenny. ^ “ But do you mean to say,” said Philip, “ that these friends of your father’s — rolling in wealth, as I understand they are — never held out a helping hand to you, Jenny ? ” “ My dear uncle, you don’t understand the matter; you should get Mrs. Campden to explain it to you, as she was good enough to do to us : ‘ Rich people have so many calls.’ ” “ If this is as you say, I will never set foot in that woman’s house again,” exclaimed Dalton, angrily. “ That will be one call the less ibr her,” observed Jeff, pleasantly. “ And the Skipton’s ? Have you seen nothing of them, too?” inquired Dalton. “ My dear papa,” said Jenny, gravely, “ you can’t expect folks who respect themselves — or who wish their coachman to respect them — to bring their carriage to Brown Street. It is no good asking after our old friends, for, except dear Dr. Curzon, and those now under this roof, we have none.” It was a relief to Kitty that not a word was said about Mr. Holt, though of him it could certainly not be averred that he had deserted them. To her, terrible as it might seem, and did seem to her own mind, the return of her father vfas not an pallen fortunes. 37^ unmitigated joy. When Jeff had informed her of if-, she had not evinced the delight he had expected, because the thought had flashed upon her that, so far as she was concerned, he had returned too late. She was not, indeed, pledged to Holt, but she felt compromised as respected him, and in honour bound to accept him as her future husband. For some days past her mind had been made up for the sacrifice, and she had already plunged into little expenses upon Jenny’s account in anticipation of it. The money that was to take her sister to the sea, and bring back the roses to her cheek, and which Holt had offered, she had resolved not to decline. She was already under a pecuniary obligation to him in the matter of the premium, which could only be discharged in one way ; for, to judge by the appearance of her father, he had come back even poorer than he had left England. Well, she would now be able to help him as well as the rest — four of them, instead of three — that was all. Still it was a relief to her that not a word was spoken about ihe man the thought of whom was ever present with her, and shadowed her young life with gloom and evil presage. In vain she had called up every argument to strengthen his cause, and back the claim she felt to be unanswerable : his solicitude for her and hers; his generosity; his patience and forbearance. The very constancy with which he clung to her, and pursued her, ranged itself upon the other side, and increased her sense of repugnance — nay, of loathing. It was a part of the plan agreed upon between Dalton and Philip that they should say no more for the present about Holt and his transactions than they should be absolutely obliged to say ; and it surprised them both to find how easy it was to maintain their reticence. Neither Kitty nor Jenny asked their father one word about the Lara, nor put a question respecting his pecuniary affairs. It is true they had taken it for granted that matters w^ere the reverse of prosperous with him, which would have been a sufficient reason for avoiding the subject ; but in any case — poor though they were, and suffering from the ills of poverty — such material woes were for the moment forgotten in the joy of seeing him back again. “ I think I have reason to be proud of my darlings, Philip,” said Dalton, as the two walked together with Jeff from Brown Street that night to the lodgings which that young gentleman had procured them near his own. “ I had ruined them, and as it must have seemed to them ” (he pointed to his shabby coat “had failed in saving anything from the wreck of their for DOES KITTY KNOWi 377 tunes, yet not a syllable have they spoken to me upon the sub- ject, lest, doubtless, it should sound as a reproach.” “ I expected nothing less,” answered Philip, quietly. 1 feel several inches higher since those two girls have called me uncle. They have nothing sordid about them^ such as I, alas ! have seen in my fellow-creatures all my life.” “And it isn’t as if they had not to think of shillings and pence,” put in Jeff, eagerly. “ If you could know how Kitty has cut and contrived, and striven to make both ends meet, during the last six months ” Here he stopped, for a look of intense pain came into Dalton’s face. “Well, well; that will be all over now, I trust, JefF. To- night we have still to do some dirty work, and then we shall have clean hands for the future; we will avoid rogues and fair- weather friends, and all worthless folk, and my dear ones shall have no further cause for tears. I think Jeff should know whac we are going to do with respect to Holt, Philip.” Their plan of attack, unfolded to their young friend at their lodgings, was simple enough. A letter was to be posted to Holt that night informing him that his fraud respecting the Larob mine was discovered ; and that his malpractices respecting other affairs of Dalton, of which he had had the management, was more than suspected. Restitution was imperatively demanded ; and, in default of it, he was assured that criminal proceedings would at once be instituted. There were no upbi aidings ; but a more curt, deci- sive, and stern epistle was never penned. Philip would have preferred that their opinion of Holt’s treachery should have been stated in Saxon English ; but Dalton would not have it. Such a course, he thought, would have taken for granted a certain familiarity to still exist be- tween him and this scoundrel, of whose connection wdth himself he felt unspeakably ashamed. “ What makes me mad with him,” said Philip, “ is to think he should have dared to lift his eyes towards Kate. Such vermin ought to be poisoned out of hand. What do you say, Jeff ? ” “ I am bound to say,” returned the young fellow, gravely, “that Mr. Holt — whatever may have been his reasons for it — has been considerate, and even kind to me.” “ But you are not going back to him, surely, after this said Philip, in amazement. “ Well, yes ; I shall go to-morrow, for the last time. He may have something to urge, I do not say in excuse, but in extenuation of his roguery. Your letter gives him no opportunity for this.” 378 FALLEN FORTUNES. “ Opportunity, indeed!” rejoined Philip, with irritation. I would send him a rope, to afford him the opportunity of ex- tenuating himself on that. If you get talking with that wily scoundrel, my young friend, you will be wound round his little finger.” “ Our Jeff — being honest — contends at a disadvantage with most people,” observed Dalton, laying his hand on the young fellow’s shoulder ; “ yet in the end I should be inclined to back him. Let him take his own way, and we will take ours.” Accordingly, Jeff went to Abdell Court next morning, as usual. Mr. Holt had not arrived ; nor, said the office boy, had he yet returned from the country. Upon his table was lying the usual pile of letters, which it was Jeff’s business to sort and dispose of. Some he was empowered to open and answer ; some he would open only and make an “abstract” of for his employer ; others he would put aside for his private eye. Among these last was one in Dalton’s handwriting, with the contents of which, however, Jeff was already acquainted. Eleven, twelve o’clock passed, and yet Mr. Holt came not. It would not have been surprising had his real destination of yesterday been what he had pretended it to be ; but Jeff was well convinced that he had not gone to Plymouth, but to Liver- pool, and there was now ample time for him to have gone and returned. At one o’clock the office closed for an hour, during which Holt was accustomed to deny himself to everybody, whether he was within doors or not ; and a little before one he came. He looked jaded, wan, and pale, like one who had been on a toilsome expedition, and failed in its proposed object — or so it seemed to Jeff, who observed him narrowly — but there w’as no other change in his appearance, no cowed or defiant looks, such as might have been expected had he known that Dalton had landed upon English soil. Jeff felt sure he did not know. “Well, what news, Mr. Derwent? Who has been ? ” “ Mr. Dawkins called just after you went away yesterday, and appeared to wish to see you very much.” “ What about P ” inquired Holt, quickly. “But it’s no matter. It was most likely about that cock-and-bull story about the Flamborough Head, I daresay you have heard it yourself, Mr. Derwent ? ” “ I have heard that some one — two persons indeed — have been saved from the wreck.” “Well, it’s true, for a wonder: Jones and Norton are their names. I am sorry to say their story destroys the last gleam DOES KITTY KNOW? 379 of — — What’s this ? ” He had been sorting the letters with his hand, and presently came upon the one despatched from Islington the previous night. “What’s this ? ” he reiterated, in a voice grown suddenly hoarse and low. “ How did it come ? Where did it come from ? ” “ It came by the early post, sir.” “ It’s strange,” said Holt, with an air of indifference ; “ quite curious. Have you. ever seen a handwriting like that ? It reminds me of one who certainly never could have written it ; and yet it gave me quite a turn. You know whom I mean, I daresay ? ” He did not attempt to open the letter, and the strong, huge hand that held it in its grasp shook like a leaf. “ I know whom you mean,” said Jeff, gravely. . “ It is Mr. Dalton’s.” “ Yes ; it is like John Dalton’s writing.” “It is his writing, sir.” “ That is impossible ; that is ridiculous. The post-mark disproves that. But there is a curious similarity, without doubt). Has the boy gone to his dinner ? ” Jeff answered that he was ; and Holt moved to the door and locked it. “ Now tell me, Mr. Derwent,” said he, still toying with the letter — “ for you are one who tells the truth — what makes you fancy that it was really Dalton who wrote this ? As a matter of fact, as I have already stated, there were but two men saved from the wreck of the Flamhorough Head.'^ “ I know it, Mr. Holt : they were John Dalton and Philip Astor.” “ That’s a lie ! — that’s a lie ! ” exclaimed the other, passion- ately. “ You are a liar, like the rest;” but his pale face belied his words ; he staggered rather than sank into his chair. “You had better open the letter, and see who is the liar,” said Jeff, haughtily. “You speak of Astor, but you don’t know the man as I do,” continued Mr. Holt. “He is an utterly untrustworthy and contemptible fellow. He was here once, in your place ; and I trusted him too far, and he repaid me for my confidence by forgery. He is nob to be believed upon his oath. If there is anything in this letter founded upon his evidence ” “ You had surely better read it, Mr. Holt,” said Jeff, curtly. He could not but feel some pity for this miserable wretch, who evidently dreaded the thing he held in his quivering fingers as though it were a very adder. FALLEN FORTUNES. 380 What! you know its contents, tken? ” exclaimed the other, sharply. ‘‘ You are in the conspiracy with Astor and the rest. You think it honest, do you, to take your wages here, and turn against the hand that pays them ? ” “I know what is in that letter, Mr. Holt; but yet I am no conspirator,” answered Geoffrey, steadily. “ On the contrary, I came here to-day — for the last time — to do what good I could for you. As for your wages, they were paid for work, I suppose ; or if that was overpaid, you had your reasons for it; but I owe you thanks for civil treatment, and I am here to give them.” Holt had opened the letter by this time, and ran his eye through its half-dozen pregnant lines. “It is not Astor’s word Mr. Dalton has taken, you see, sir,” continued Jeff, “ but the evidence of his own senses. He has been to Brazil, and seen the Quito. As for the other matters, you know best ; but ” “ Ay, it is all over,” murmured the other. “ It is no use holding on to a falling stock, Mr. Derwent, eh ? That’s one of the great principles of onr business.” Holt was looking at Jeff, and speaking to him, yet he seemed almost unconscious of his presence. His eyes had no speculation in them ; his tones were mechanical. Presently he cried out, like one who is wrung with a sharp, physical pain : “ Does Kitty know of all this, Jeff ? ” CHAPTER XLIX. MR. HOLT MAKES JEFF HIS CONFIDANT. Under ordinary circumstances, Mr. Holt could scarcely have made an observation so displeasing, and calculated to set his companion at odds with him, as that most unexpected one with respect to Kitty ; but the tone in which it was uttered, and the look that accompanied it, disarmed the young fellow altogether; nay, more, it filled his soul with compassion for this beaten wretch. For if ever a man looked beaten in the battle of life, not at one point, but at all, and not only beaten, but broken and utterly despairing, it was the once prosperous, and demonstra- tively prosperous, Richard Holt. “ Does Kitty know of all this, Jeff ? ” The use of the two familiar names was most significant, since they comprised not only a confession of hopeless love, but an appeal to the generosity of his rival. “ Tell me,” it seemed to say, “ for mercy’s sake, if I am lost in the eyes of her I love, as well as in those of the rest of the world ; or whether, so far MR. HOLT MAKES JEFF HIS CONFIDANT 381 as she is concerned, I can still hold np my head ? I appeal to you, because your heart is kind and sound, and you are one neither to lie to me, nor, though I am helpless and fallen, to tread me under foot/^ “ Kitty does not know, Mr. Holt — as yet,” answered Jeff, hesitatingly. “ And yet you knew, and did not tell her ! ” put in the other, quickly. “ There are few men in your case who would have waited so long. Her father, however, has perhaps informed her this morning ? ” “ No, Mr. Holt ; it was arranged that she is to be told nothing till he has had your reply to his letter.” “ Then I will give him his reply,” answered the other, calmly. He opened a little box that lay on his office desk, and took from it a sheet of figures. “ Here is my account with John Dalton,” said he, “ which you can presently examine at your leisure. He will find that I was a more honest man than he took me for — up to yonder date,” pointing it out with his finger. “ The Lara itself was a bona fide investment in the first instance. He and I both made money out of it, and would have continued to do so legitimately, but for my passion for the girl you love. That was what drove me to my ruin. Ah, you do not comprehend that ! If you loved her, as I did — and as I do — it would be easier for you to understand it. — Nay, forgive me. I w^as w^rong there. An honest love doubtless takes honest ways, and only those, to win its object. Call mine dishonest, then, if you will ; yet it was genuine of its sort,, believe me. Its nature was devouring, and I denied it nothing — honour, reputation, self- respect, were all thrown into that fatal flame. From the first moment that I beheld her, I swore to make that girl my wife ; and now I shall die perjured.” He smiled a wretched smile and sighed, then wearily went on : “ Her father would have none of me. He had opened the doors of his house to me with reluctance, and I found no favour there. In vain I worked for him and enriched him. When I ventured upon ever so slight an ap- proach to familiarity with those belonging to him, he took no pains to conceal his annoyance — his astonishment at my presump- tion. I had some pride of my own also, and this wounded me to the quick. Since I had no chance to attain my object while he was prosperous, I resolved to ruin him.” Jeff uttered an exclamation of disgust. “ I am sorry to offend you, Mr. Derwent ; but this is a relation of facts. The last dying speech and confession of a man under the gallows, you know ” (here he smiled again, if possible more 382 FALLEN FORTUNES. ghastlily tban before), “ and doos not concern itself with senti- ment. I bad tried fair means to no purpose ; and I was not to be baulked. I could not bend John Dalton, so I resolved to break him. Hitherto, he had been, practically speaking, my partner in all the business we transacted with one another ; now I made him unconsciously my confederate. I set rumours afloat about the Lara^ which brought down the shares, and then I bought them up. In the end, Dalton and I possessed the mine between us, though I told him afterwards that I had parted with all my interest in it. Whatever we had now to do in concert, I secured the lion’s share of profit for myself — it is all there ” (he pointed to the schedule) in black and white — not because I was grasping, but because I wished to dock his gains. When there was loss, it was he who chiefly suffered. I fed his ambi- tion, and encouraged him to make a figure in politics as well as commerce ; knowing that politics would cost him money and not fill his pocket, as they do with some men. When funds began to fail him, I matured my scheme concerniug the mine. I sent a creature of my own (the ‘ expert ’ Tobbit) to Brazil, to report upon the Lara — to the English shareholders (in reality to Dalton and myself), with instructions to declare it valueless; with what success you know. Still I could not get Dalton to dispose of his shares: some influence was at work — I now feel certain it must have been that of Astor — to induce him to hold them. His resolve to go to Brazil to look into matters for himself filled me with dismay, yet I strove in vain to hinder him. When he had once embarked, it was, I knew, but a question of a few months, and then my fraud would be exposed. But if I could only have secured Kitty in the meantime, that would not have disturbed me. To that end I applied every means in my power ; but though I had a keen ally in Mrs. Campden, I made no pro- gress. You will learn all that from other sources. You know, even though the Flamborough Head went down, and Fortune seemed to favour me to the uttermost, and to turn her back upon those weak ones with whom I warred, that I was never Kitty’s accepted suitor.” Jeff* was not quick at figures, but he could calculate better than any man what it cost his defeated rival to say those words. And yet even he knew not their full meaning. This unhappy wretch was not all evil (as some of us are, I fear, in spite of some philosophic observers who have reported to the contrary) ; since he could not marry Kitty himself, he was willing that the man who might, and who certainly deserved to do so, should be quite clear in his own mind that his wife had never plighted MR. HOLT MAKES fEFF HIS CONE/HA NT 383 trotli — no matter under what circumstances — to another; he was willing that this should be, and he was above measure de- sirous that Kitty in accepting Jeff should on her part feel un- compromised as respected himself. It was not all generosity — though people can afford to be generous when making their wills ; he was solicitous that his memory at least should not be odious to Kitty. “ Do I speak plainly, Mr. Derwent ? ’’ said Holt, after a short pause. You are giving yourself unnecessary pain, sir,” answered the young fellow, kindly; “ as for me, I am but a messenger to carry back to those who sent me your acceptance of certain terms.” “ That is true ; but confession, they say, is good for the soul, and I prefer you to any priest, Jeff.” He was right there, so far, at all events, as making his peace in this world was con- cerned. He knew that in that young and generous nature he should find such an apologist as he would have looked for in vain elsewhere ; and that apologist would have the ear of her whose censure or contempt alone had terrors for him. As for the terms you speak of,” he went on, “ I have no choice but to accept them. The figures I have given you will show my in- debtedness to Mr. Dalton, to which the interest shall be added. The calculation will take a little time — perhaps a few hours ; may I ask, until they have expired, that this ” — here his face showed a tinge of colour — “ this matter of business may not be spoken of, save among those to whom it is already known ? ” “ So far as I have any influence, Mr. Holt, you may depend >> “ I ask no more, save one thing,” interrupted the other, with a wave of his hand ; the first recurrence he had made to his favourite continental manner. “ Though easily granted, it is a great favour, but it is the last I shall ever seek from you. You hesitate to pledge yourself beforehand,” added he, with a faint smile : “ that is only natural under the circumstances. How- ever, this little matter can be performed ‘ without prejudice,* as the lawyers say : there is no dishonesty in it, I assure you ; no harm to anyone, but some good, or at least some pleasure to me, whose pleasures are mostly come to an end.” “ I will do it, sir,” said the young fellow, simply. “ Then good-bye, Jeff ; and may your life be a brighter and a better one than mine has been.” ‘‘ But the favour, sir ? ” said the young fellow, greatly moved. “ Oh, it was merely that — that you would shake hands with 3^4 FALLEN FORTUNES, me.” He did so. ‘‘ After all that has come and gone, I was more than doubtful whether you would. It cost you something, Jeff, I saw ; but in the end you will not repent it.” Then resuming his usual business manner, he added : ‘‘ John Dalton will receive all his dues by to-morrow morning at latest; and your salary will be sent to you, up to this date, by the same post. I am sorry that circumstances have caused us to part company, Mr. Derwent; but needs must when the devil drives, and he was certainly the coachman in this case. As for to-day, I have much business of a private nature to arrange, and have no further occasion for your services/’ As he said these words, ho sat down, and took up his pen; Geoffrey bowed and left the room, and in a few minutes the office. His leave-taking had been abogether different from anything be could have imagined, and puzzled him, now that it was over, even more than during its occurrence. The tone and manner of the speaker had seemed to explain much at the time, but now they were absent his memory failed to supply them ; the lights of the picture were wanting, and the impres- sion it produced upon him was one of unmitigated gloom. Its tints would have been darker yet if he could have looked —but a few hours — into the future. CHAPTER L. now MR. HOLT HASTENED MATTERS. In spite of all that had happened to the family in whom Geoffrey Derwent had so large an interest — the return of Dalton, his recovered wealth, which would once more reinstate those be- longing to him in their former position ; and his own prospects, which had altered so materially for the worse (for the “ opening ” which he had looked for in business was now closed, and the gulf between him and Kitty yawned as wide as ever) — in spite of all these important considerations, Jeff’s mind, as he turned his steps towards Islington, was mainly occupied with his late employer. Notwithstanding all the villainy to which he had confessed, the young fellow’s heart was pitiful towards him ; not a word of sorrow for his delinquencies against Dalton had passed his lips, though he had promised material reparation ; but on the other hand, his sensitiveness as respected Kitty had been extreme. It was for her — though selfishly — that he had sinned — had gone through the fire of shame and the foul water of fraud ; and Jeff’s own great love for her — though it would never have thus led Mm astray — made excuses for his rival. HOW MR. HOLT HASTENED MATTERS, 385 He pictured him during those weeks when Dalton had first sailed from England, and he must have been expecting day by day the tidings of the exposure of his crime, and pitied him. It was perhaps pity misplaced, for Holt was a man with nerves of iron ; a man, too, of means and subtle device, whom the law could not have thrown on his back like a turtle (as it throws the poor and dull who transgress it) to await trial and sentence ; but judging his case by what his own would have been in the like conditions, and also taking into consideration the fact that the man was down, and harmless, Jeff, on the whole, was glad that he had given him the hand, not indeed of friendship, but forgiveness. Jeff’s day was all his own — as many days to come were, alas ! likely to be — yet he hesitated to visit Brown Street, where of late he had been so unwelcome. Moreover, he feared that he should be subject to questioning there upon the events of the day, which recent experience warned him that he was not fitted to undergo ; he entertained the just conviction that Jenny would have ‘‘ turned him inside out ” (as they say at the Old Bailey) in five minutes of cross-examination. He resolved to go, therefore, to Dalton’s lodgings, and there leave a line to state the result of his interview with Holt, with that proviso added as to “the date of publication ” of it, and then pass the time as he could till evening. He found, however, a note at the house awaiting him, asking him to come on to Brown Street to dinner ; an invitation which he had not the courage — or the cowardice — to refuse. He found the family all in high spirits, with one exception. Dalton, indeed, was not so debonair and joyous as he had been wont to be ; his manner had something of sardonic exultation, in place of its old abandon, and it became him less. He had been hard hit, and he was a man not used to blows ; such men return them with interest, and feel a pleasure in the repayment. A rapid glance had passed between him and Jeff, which assured him that his enemy was vanquished. Jenny, bright, gay, and frail as a bird, was full of fun, with every now and then a dash of spleen amidst her sprightliness, like a sparrow turned sparrow- hawk ; she had been hit too (for was nofc each slight a blow to one so fragile ?), and was not one to forget it. The sudden change for the better in the sick girl showed how much mental trouble and material privations had had to do with her malady. Tony was in tearing spirits, now dancing about his father, now romping with Uncle Philip, whom he had taken to as naturally as though he had been a member of the family from the first. FALLEN FORTUNES. 386 Only Kitty was not merry : when her face was turned towards her father or Jenny, it beamed indeed with smiles ; a sense of gratitude seemed to environ her like an atmosphere ; hut she was strangely silent, and when not addressed had a grave and quiet look, that reminded one more of resignation than con- tentment. Perhaps, Jeff dared to hope, she had been reflecting, like himself, that the course of true love was not likely to run smoother than of yore with them ; that this new-found pros- perity, while it made self-sacrifice unnecessary, would still be a fatal obstacle to her heart’s desire* For that she knew that she was once more prosperous, was certain. The air of the whole party convinced him that such was the case, and especially the air of good Kurse Haywood, who waited upon them at dinner in person, and treated “ Master John,” as she still persisted in calling Dalton, like a prince who has not only returned to his native land, but come back to enjoy his own again. He would have had of her best as long as it lasted — had he been a beggar, but her behaviour would in that case have been less unlike a prolonged flourish of trumpets. Indeed, it might be said that there were cymbals also, for in her excitement and exultation she clashed the plates together and broke a couple. “ It doesn’t matter, if there are enough left to go round,” said Dalton. “ Thank heaven, it doesn’t. Master John,” answered the old lady ; “ for there are plenty noiv where those came from.” She had got some bottles of champagne from the public- house, the whole of which she would have dispensed to the company, and thereby have poisoned them, for the Brown Street vintage was execrable. “ I am afraid you don’t like it, sir,” said she, aggrieved ; but it was the best I could get at such a short notice.” The wine is excellent, nurse,” said Dalton, gravely ; “ but one bottle is quite sufficient to drink the health of all our friends in.” The list of toasts, indeed, was short enough. They drank Dr. Curzon’s health ; and, in spite of her remonstrance, they drank to Kurse Haywood herself, the men shaking hands with her, and the two girls overwhelming her with caresses. It would certainly have been no exaggeration had she observed in acknowledgment, that it was the proudest moment of her life ; her only reply, however (and how far preferable would it be if after-dinner acknowledgments in general took that form), was a flood of tears. When the ladies had retired, taking Tony the reluctant (who BO far from finding fault with the Brown Street champagne HO W MR. HOL T HASTENED MA TTERS. 387 had done ample justice to it) with them, Dalton laid his hand on Greoffrey’s shoulder. “ And now, lad, for your news from Abdell Court. I need not ask if it be good news, for I have read so much as that already in your face.’^ ‘‘Yes, sir ; it is good news. Mr. Holt admits all that is urged against him, and promises to make the completest reparation ; only for a few hours — the time he named, indeed, must have elapsed by now — he begged to be spared exposure.’^ “ What did the fellow mean ? ” inquired Dalton, angrily. “ Did he want to shut my mouth, if a man had asked me any time to-day, is Richard Holt a villain ? “ I think he merely meant that, until you had heard from him this evening, he hoped you would not make his shame known to your owm family.’’ “ My family ! ” echoed Dalton, scornfully. “ The scoundrel has small claim to forbearance as respects them, I reckon. Do you know, man,” added he, with stern solemnity, “ that it is thanks to him that my dear wife is lying in her grave at oan- beck ? ” It was certainly true that through Holt’s fraud Dalton had been forced to leave the country, and that out of his absence had arisen the catastrophe at the Hook. Jeff hung his head ; the argument had gone home to him ; he felt he bad nothing more to say for the unhappy wretch, whose hand he had taken that day for the last time. “ Come,” said Dalton ; “ let us not think of villains to-night. There was one toast, Jeff, I didn’t propose while the girls were here, because I wished to save your blushes ; but 1 mean to drink it now. Philip, fill your glass ; the sherry, I think, is a little less deadly than that champagne. As good wine needs no bush — if the converse be true, by-the-by, this wine should require a thicket — so a toast that we drink with all our hearts needs no speech. My toast is Geoffrey Derwent. You don’t know him, Philip, as I know him (nor did I know him, for that matter, as I ought to have known him, till within the last two days). But you may take my word for it that, young as he is, a truer heart, or one more to be relied upon, in times that try men’s hearts and show what stuff they are made of, does not beat than his. I need not repeat the story ; but Jenny has told me all about you, Jeff; and if Kitty has told me nothing, there has been, I dare say, some very good reasons for her silence. I have no secrets from Philip here, not even that one ; and I have a particular object in saying what I have to say before Philip. His notion is, that FALLEN FORTUNES. 388 with returning prosperity, I shall fall into the old tracks ; that ‘ the deceitfulness of riches ^ ” “ I never said so, John/^ interrupted Philip ; ‘‘I only thought ” “ Well, you see, he thought it,” put in Dalton, quickly, ‘‘ and that is quite as bad. To put the matter beyond question, how- ever, so far as you are concerned, Jeff, I wish, in Philipps pre- sence, to remind you of a certain confession you made to me with respect to Kitty, when you and I parted company at Kiver- side. Do you remember what it was, Jeff ? ” Yes, indeed ; I remember very well, sir.” ‘‘ And do you recollect what I said to you in reply ? ” ‘‘ You said you would talk to me about that when you came back again.” “Very good; and now, you see, I am keeping my promise. Well, if you still love Kitty, and she loves you, she is yours, Jeff!” Oh, sir, you are too good 1 ” cried Jeff, his heart bounding with joy and gratitude, though conscious of a doubt. “ But, alas 1 I have nothing ; and Kitty will be rich ; and people will say ” “ Let them say what they like, and be hanged,” cried Dalton, vehemently. “ If ‘ people ’ — by which I suppose you mean one’s friends — would say a little less, and do a little more, when occa- sion demands it, their opinion would be of more consequence.” He pushed his chair back from the table, and began walking up and down the little room as he went volubly on : “It has always of course been acknowledged of Society, even by the prosperous, that she was ‘ frivolous ’ and ‘ hollow,’ and all that sort of thing ; but I could not have imagined, unless I had experienced it my- self, how worthless and rotten at the core the creature is. The women are worse than the men, because they protest so much. To think of the scores of them that have smirked and smiled, and asked me after my ‘ dear girls ’ with such tender sympathy ; and then, when one’s back was turned — as they thought for good — and these same ‘ dear ’ ones were left helpless and penni- less — how not one — not one of these fine folks would hold a finger out, or even say a word of comfort 1 No, Jeff ; don’t talk to me of what ‘ people ’ may ‘ say,' or I shall be tempted to think that those who are not knaves in the world must needs be the other thing.” Philip sat back in his chair, jingling some halfpence in his pocket — probably all the money he had — and very much applaud- ing these remarks ; but a keener observer would perhaps have HOW MR. HOLT HASTENED MATTERS 389 had a suspicion that Dalton was working himself up to this display of vehemence, or, at all events, found it necessary to nurse his wrath in order to keep it warm. The fact was, not only was his nature eminently genial, and inapt for receiving deep impressions, especially of an unpleasant sort, but second nature — use — had made him regard the very class of persons he was now anathematising as his own world, beyond which he had few sympathies. His feelings, however, with respect to Geoffrey Derwent were genuinely what he described them to be, and he was perfectly honest in the offer he had just made him of his daughter’s hand. “ Perhaps you would like to go upstairs, my lad, and have a few words with Kitty,” added he, kindly, “ while we old fellows smoke a cigar as he spoke he threw open the window, admit- ting a little air, a good deal of dust, and the growing chorus of some street hawkers, who at that period of the evening were wont to “ work ” Brown Street, and supply it with the latest sensational intelligence. Jeif smiled his thanks, and left the room ; but his step on the narrow staircase was not that of a lover who has “ asked papa ” with success ; and on the landing he paused for full a minute, weighing this and that, in most unlover- like fashion ; for, with all his good qualities — among which a loving heart was not cer- tainly wanting — Jeff was intensely proud. His darling hope had been, if only circumstances had permitted it, that he might have made for himself some position in the world — humble, but not despicable, and such as he could have lifted Kitty out of her difficulties to share. In wedding her as things were, he would not indeed be marrying her for money ; but the inequality in their fortunes jarred upon his sensitive feelings. Among such natures — for low ones find no difficulty in the matter — it requires a strong mind and an exceptionally wholesome one to accept a pecuniary obligation without repugnance. The worship of money is so well established, that even those who ought to know it is an idol are apt to treat it as a sacred thing. In the drawing-room he found Kitty seated close to her sister, with the latter’s arm about her waist. It was generally Jenny who “did the talking” when they were alone together, and she had evidently been doing it on this occasion. Kitty had the downcast looks of a listener who has been preached at. “Talk of Jeff, and he makes his appearance !” said Jenny, saucily. “ I hope I am not intruding ? ” observed he, humbly. 390 FALLEN FORTUNES. Yon are intruding on me^ sir/^ said Jenny, rising from her chair. “ I have had quite enough of you helow-stairs for the present ; ’’ and off she tripped, leaving the two young people alone. The window was open here, as in the room below, bub the dust was less, and the wind that passed over the flower-box on the sill brought charming odours with it. “ Kitty, dear, your father has been speaking to me most kindly,” said Jeff, hesitatingly. “ He is always kind, and in your case can never, I am sure, be otherwise, Jeff,” answered she, steadily. “ He knows that he owes you very much.” “I don’t feel that, Kitty; but I feel that whatever he owes me, or can owe me, it can never be so much by a hundred times as what he says he is prepared to give me. Can you guess, Kitty, darling, what that is ? ” “ Jeff — Geoffrey,” said she, in distressed tones, “ did you not promise at the Kook “ Yes, dear,” interrupted he ; but that was different. The circumstances are altogether changed. They are not indeed as I could wish them to be, even yet. I am poor, I may say penni- less, when compared with you ” “Oh, Jeff, how dare you ! ” exclaimed Kitty, rising angrily from her seat. “ Do you suppose I am thinking of money ? Of course, I have had to think about it of late— for others ; but in a matter that concerns myself alone, can you think that your being poor or rich can draw me, by ahair’s-breadth,onewayoranother?” “ It draws me, Kate,” cried Jeff, simply. “It is the only thing that draws me — just a hair s-breadth — away from you. I thought, when I spoke to you at the Kook, that it was the reflection how ill off we both were as respected means ; and that, in your unselfishness and generosity, you felt it right to be the prop and stay of your own household, and not to look outside of it, even for such love as mine.” “It was partly that, Jeff; but also, even then, there was another contingency, and that, alas ! — the other obstacle, I mean — has grown and grown; indeed, I don’t know how I stand respecting it. I— I — you must please to give me time, Jeff ; and I can’t promise ; indeed I can’t.” “ But you have promised no one else, Kitty ? ” Ko ; at least not exactly ; but The shouting of the hawkers in the street was growing nearer and nearer : as one on one side, and one on the other, they bawled together, like singers in a glee who are out of tune, it needed a practised ear to catch a word. J/OIV MR. HOLT HASTENED MA TTERS. 391 This noise is dreadful,” muttered Jeff ; and moving quickly to the window, he pulled down the sash and shut out the sound. ‘‘ You need time, Kitty, to think it over,” said Jeff, softly ; well, let it be so ; I was not impatient, you know, before.” It was not impatience, nor yet disappointment, nor distress, that agitated the speaker ; yet his face had blanched, and wore an expression anxious and distrait. But Kitty’s eyes were fixed upon the floor, and saw him not. “ Ko ; you were patient, and good, and kind as you ever were, Jeff,” answered she, tenderly. “ Whatever happens, I shall always think of you as — as all that. But indeed I must have time.” ‘‘ I am going now,” said Jeff, and indeed his hand was already on the door. Kever surely were two fond lovers so willing that time and space should separate them, as these two seemed to be. Throughout the day, from the moment her father had told her better times had come to them — he could no longer deny himself that pleasure, though he had forborne to speak of how his fortune was about to be restored to him — Kitty had been revolving in her mind her position as respected Holt. The money that he had advanced for the life-insurance premium would now be repaid to him of course, but conld that acquit her of her obligation ? and if it did, would it release her from the implied though unexpressed consent she had given to accept of his attentions ? It was easy to break with him indeed, but could it be done with a good conscience ? In her heart of hearts, Kitty knew she had made up her mind to marry this man, and she feared that he knew she had done so. To marry him now — all the forces that had driven her towards him having suddenly ceased to exert their influence, while the dead- weight of dislike still drew her in the opposite direction — she felt to be impossible ; but she also felt, notwithstanding the arguments which Jenny had just been pouring into her ear, and the still stronger claims which love itself, in the person of Jeff, was urging, that much, very much was owed to Bichard Holt ; indeed that all was owed by rights, only that the debt was too excessive for payment. At all events, it was for him to impose what terms he pleased in default of its discharge. Until she had confessed to him that notwithstanding all that had come and gone she could never be his wife, she felt at least that it was unbecoming to speak of marriage with another. Hence it waa she had said : “ I must have time.” And Jeff needed “ time ” too, though for a very different 392 FALLEN FORTUNES. purpose. He could not understand her scruples, for had not Mr. Holt himself said: “I have wooed her without success;” yet he felt confident that the obstacle to which she had alluded was Holt, and no other. He was not at liberty — to say that this man had already renounced his claim, if claim he had upon her ; but something had suddenly taken place which might set her at liberty another way. And yet, to do Jeff justice, it was not that thought which was paramount in his mind as, having quitted the presence of his beloved Kitty, he flew downstairs, and Snatching up his hat, let himself softly out of doors. Through the open window on his left he could hear Dalton and his half-brother talking earnestly over their cigars ; he even caught the name of “ Holt ” coupled with some adjective, expressive of contempt and loathing : it was strange, con- sidering what he knew of the man, that he should feel pained to hear it ; but so it was. Then turning to the right hand, he sped away after the two street hawkers, who, having cried themselves hoarse, were just about to enter the public-house at the corner, to refresh them- selves with purl — a liquor as popular with gentlemen of their calling as Dublin stout is said to be with our fashionable sopranos. “ I want a copy of your paper, quick ! ” he said, as he came up with them. “Well, you see, sir, it’s the last we have," grumbled the man addressed ; “ and I don’t think as sixpence is too much " Jeff threw him a shilling and snatched the newspaper out of his hands, unconscious of the muttered remark of the vendor’s partner : “ Why didn’t you ask the bloke a suverin for it ? ’’ He was a political economist of the soundest type, and had seen the necessity, which the other had omitted to see and take advan- tage of. Jeff’s practised eye lighted at once upon the big letters — “ Suicide Extraordinary in Abdell Court.” He had caught the name as he had sat at the open window, though it had escaped the ears of those who were less familiar with it, and at once associated the catastrophe with his late employer. His air and manner during their late interview were quite in consonance with such a deed, and even (as he now thought) his shameless candour. Had not the wretched man himself likened it to a confession at the gallows’ foot ! Within five hours or so of Jeff’s parting with him at the office, Richard Holt had blown out his brains. I/O IV THEY LIVED EVER AFTER WARDS. 393 CHAPTER LI. HOW THEY LIVED EVER AFTERWARDS. Jeff crumpled the newspaper into his pocket, and walked back in haste to the house he had just quitted. He would tell the news at once to Mr. Dalton, and then Kate would receive it, as it should be told, from her father’s lips. He knew Dalton’s nature too well to fear that he would feel or express any cruel exultation at the death of his enemy ; but he was not prepared for the grave solemnity with which he received the intelligence. “ I have news, which I am sure you will both deem sad news,” said JeflP, as he closed the parlour door behind him ; “Mr. Holt is dead. He shot himself this afternoon in his office in Abdell Court.” “ I am not surprised,” said Philip, coolly ; “ he was not a man to live disgraced.” Dalton said nothing for a minute or so. It was not mere pity that made him speechless ; it was something more — a certain sympathy. His memory was recalling that scene on Bleabarrow crags when he himself had been about to appear unsummoned in the presence of his Maker. “ Heaven have mercy on him and forgive him, as I do ! ” were his first words. “ Poor devil ! ” said Philip, by way of epitaph, and as* though the subject, in its sentimental aspect, were thereby dismissed and done with. “I hope we shall have no trouble in conse- quence of this, about the shares and things.” “ He said he ‘ had much business of a private nature to arrange,’ ” said JeflF, “ when I parted from him ; and he had five hours of life before him then; I feel confident that they were passed in reparation.” “ Let us hope for the best,” said Philip ; which, let us ima- gine, was a pious wish with regard to the dead man’s future. Then the two men began to talk, in quite a different manner than that they would have used half an hour before, of Holt’s character. They both agreed that he was an excellent man of business : keen, diligent, and firm as a rock in a storm. “If he had cared for anybody but himself, he might have been a happy man,” was Dalton’s verdict. “You are wrong there, Mr. Dalton,” said JeflP, confidently. “ He cared for Kitty.” “ Hang his impudence ! ” said Philip, “ Mind, I didn’t say hang /iim.” 394 FALLEN FOR TUNES. Dalton frowned a little, but made no observation on tbe subject. ‘‘Come,” said he, presently; “let us go up stairs, and break it to the girls.” “ If you will excuse me,” said Jeff, “ I would rather not see them again to-night.” “ As you please, my lad,” returned Dalton. “ You had better look in at our place the first thing to-morrow morning. Come and breakfast with us, and then we can talk matters over.” Jeff accordingly went home at once, feeling that he had quite enough to think about, but only to find there more material for thought. At his lodgings he found a visitor who, his landlady informed him, had been waiting his arrival there for hours ; a certain Mr. Stretham, with whom, as Mr Holt’s confidential legal adviser, he had some slight acquaintance. “You are surprised to see me here, no doubt, Mr. Derwent ? ” said this gentleman, in a tone which Jeff could not but con- sider was, under the circumstances, somewhat jaunty and indifferent. “Ho, sir, I am not surprised,” returned he, stiffly, “since I already know what has happened.” “ The deuce you do. Mr. Holt led me to understand that his intentions had not been disclosed to anybody. He sent me here with a most express injunction to see you to-night and communicate them.” “ His intentions, sir ? You cannot surely be referring to his design of committing suicide ? Are you aware that he has blown his brains out ? ” “ God bless my soul ! ” cried the attorney, startled into de- voutness. “ You don’t say so ! Blown his brains out ! and such clever brains, too! Well, that explains the whole affair, then,' which up to this moment has been so inexplicable to me. He has made over all his property by a deed of gift. If he had left it by will and then put an end to his life, don’t you see there would have been a difflculty about the matter ? As it is, every- thing is quite simple. Even a verdict of felo de se — if a jury could be got to find it — would not affect the disposition of his money.” “ I hope it has been so disposed, however, Mr. Stretham, in- dependently of this deed of gift, that he has made restitution ? ” “ Yes, yes ; we need not talk about that now. I guessed, of course, that there was something wrong — it was about that Lara mine, was it not ? That money — every shilling of it — has all been paid, or is in course of payment.’* HOW THEY LIVED EVER AFTERWARDS. 395 ‘‘ I am most sincerely pleased to hear it/’ said Jeff, with a sigh of relief. “ It must be owned that he did what he could at last to put himself right with his fellow-men.” “ Yes, and also to reward his friends,” remarked Mr. Stret- ham, with significance. ‘‘Indeed,” answered Jeff, indifferently. “I was quite un- acquainted with them ; I knew nothing of his social relations.” “ I don’t know that he ever had any, except with Mr. Dalton, with whom it appears he has had disagreements. He has made over the whole of his property — something over fifty thou- sand pounds, I should say at a rough guess — to one Geoffrey Derwent.” “ Left it to me ! ” exclaimed Jeff, astounded. “ Oh yes ; there is no mistake about that. I was to remind you that he said you would have no reason to repent having shaken hands with him. I don’t shake hands myself, in a general way — I don’t think it professional ; but if I had thought my late client was so gratified by the ceremony, I would never have omitted it.” Jeff* did not hear the pleasantry; his mind was occupied, not with his own accession to wealth, but with the difference of position in which it would place him as respected Kitty. Gra- titude to the dead man, and gratitude also to Dalton, who had accepted him as his son-in-law without a penny, were contend- ing in his heart. The former he could never repay ; yet, strange to say, it affected him less of the two. It is the bane of the base that even their very gifts lack the savour of giving : moreover, it must be remembered that Holt, having no further use for his money, must needs have given it to somebody. Afterwards, when Jeff came to think upon the matter, he felt the dead man’s generosity more keenly, and acknowledged it in heartier fashion ; for the conviction was borne in upon him — and it was no doubt a just one — that this vast fortune, given to himself, was, in fact, only given to him in trust to Kitty, who, as Holt had reffected, might have refused to accept it more directly. On calling at Dalton’s lodgings the next morning he found that Mr. Stretham had not exaggerated the completeness of his late client’s settlement of all claims on his estate. It appeared afterwards that throughout the progress of his frauds as respected Dalton, he had kept the most accurate debtor and creditor account of matters, and was thus enabled to re-pay every shilling — both principal and interest — in which he was indebted to him. FALLEN FORTUNES. 396 “ If lie could cook accounts, it must be owned, as Dalton observed afterwards, when the matter had grown familiar, he could also keep thera.'^ He was, indeed, maugre a few grains of honest sentiment, a great financier, aod admirably fitted to control the destinies of a joint-stock company or a foreign loan. Kitty, I think, held another view of him, which — since he was dead and gone — almost took the form of tenderness. She understood the man, as regarded his affections, as only a woman could have done. She knew that when he had persecuted her most he had loved her as few men can love ; and now that he had become a mere memory, and she could, as it were, afibrd to do so, she in a manner respected him. Even Jenny in days to come had a certain qualified praise for Mr. Holt, with whom she would frankly confess she “ had had no patience until he left dear Jeff all that money.’’ She thought there was more real good in him — if “ grit” be good — than in such fair-weather friends as the Skiptons had proved them- selves to be. She deemed him ‘‘worth a dozen” of such as Mrs. Campden ; but then, in Jenny’s estimation, a dozen Mrs. Campdens were, to use a phrase of the auction-room, a very “ cheap lot ” indeed. He was a rogue, but at least he did not mingle his roguery with cant and “ gush ” and protestations of eternal friendship, wherein the word “ eternal ” had even a less extended sense than certain heretical theologians have of late attributed to it. These remarks, of course, are, however, like a Reuter’s telegram, “in anticipation of our usual advices.” It may be easily imagined that as even Kitty’s tender con- science had had little to urge against her union with Jeff as matters had stood, that she saw no obstacle to her own happi- ness, now that the other claimant for her hand had removed himself from the field ; while whatever “ people ” might have “ said ” had the wedding taken place under other circumstances, they had now nothing but congratulations to offer upon the union between two young persons, not only so obviously fitted for one another, but whose means were so proportionate. It was every way a most “ desirable ” match ; and was ever any- thing so “funny” as that father-in-law and son-in-law should possess the same diamond mine (or something) in Golconda (or somewhere) together ! The whole thiug seemed so “ provi- dential,” as though it had been “ pre-ordained, as it were, you know.” Dalton went about saying the bitterest things against Society — and yet mixing in it almost as much as he had been wont to do. His smile was less genial, but his wit was even keener now THEY LIVED EVER AFTERWARDS. 397 than of old. He was quite as much sought after as before, but not so well liked. It was complained of him by a great lady of fashion that Mr. Dalton would say ‘‘ quite horrid things at times : by which it may be presumed her ladyship meant the naked truth. The fact was, Dalton was like a fish out of water among plain honest people, such as have no turn for epigram, who are content to keep their claret till the second day, and who use ready-made “ dressing for their salads. He knew that there were other atmospheres purer and more wholesome, and was angry with himself because he could not live in them ; or at least that they did not suit him. It is the fashion to say that adversity does us all good : but if it be so, John Dalton was an exception. His wife’s death was a terrible loss to him. Doubtless such pure souls are well employed to whatever scenes of bliss they wing their flight; but to the post of guardian angel to her husband, which she had filled in this world to such perfection, there was no successor, and he missed her gracious influence sorely. It must be said, however, to his credit, that notwithstanding her vacant chair at his fireside remained unoccupied, the sweet influences of home never lost their power over John Dalton. After a sojourn at the seaside, which placed poor Jenny at as good a standpoint in regard to health as she had ever been, he took the family to the old home in London which their mother’s memory had made so dear, and where a charming surprise awaited them. Every article of furniture that could be reco- vered from the purchasers at the sale was found there in its old place ; and the same welcome and familiar faces greeted them, from whom their father’s Fallen Fortunes had at one time com- pelled him to part. The mistress of all, indeed, was absent ; but another mem- ber of the family was installed there en jpermanence in the person of Uncle Philip. Society, with her fine perception of what is right, expressed herself as astonished and even “ pained ” to perceive the land- marks of legitimacy thus ignored ; but she was not absolutely “ outraged,” as she would have been had the Quito proved less remunerative. She contented herself with hinting that Mr. Dalton had doubtless his reasons for so singular a proceeding ; and that if everybody had their rights, perhaps it would be found that the case of Astor versus Dalton had been decided wrongfully. The report was, that Philip had his home and his income upon the understanding that he did not marry, whereby complications might arise to give employment to gen- FALLEN FORTUNES. 398 tlemen of the long robe in the second generation ; and the rumour received this much corroboration, that Philip remained a bachelor. Jeff carried away his bride from her new old home at mid- summer, but settled so near it, that Jenny and she were scarcely more apart than when they lived under the same roof. Her baby brother continued to be her especial charge and idol long after she had children of her own ; and when many years after he followed bis brother Tony’s example and became an Eton boy, he received every “ half ” such hampers from Sister Kitty as to put to shame even the liberal contributions from his own home. On the other hand, Tony and Jenny are as fast friends as ever ; and though the former took a creditable degree at Cam- bridge, he has been heard to say, in the Society of Lincoln’s Inn, that all that now remains to him in the way of learning which is worth a shilling was taught him by his second sister. The chief guest at Kitty’s wedding was Dr. Curzon ; and I am afraid that the names of the company did not occupy a very long paragraph in The Morning Post. There were plenty of fine people who would have been glad to come, and I think Dalton would by that time have so far forgiven his fellow-creatures as to invite them ; but Kitty said : “ Ko; if you please, papa ; I would rather have only real friends at my wedding.” It was very seldom she expressed herself with such decision, yet somehow her husband was guided by her in most things. “ She has a very light hand,” Dalton used to say, “ and Jeff has a tender mouth.” Above all things, Kitty had a horror of “the City” and speculation of all kinds; and since it would never have done for Jeff to be idle, she sent him into Parliament, where he was greatly liked. Though not distinguished for ora- tory, he spoke now and then sensibly enough ; and his opinion upon commercial matters had some weight — at all events in the smoking-room. It was generally supposed there that he had been in early life “ largely connected ” with the City. Very few people know more of other people’s early lives. Curiously enough, it was never whispered that he had been connected with literature. “ His good manners,” Dalton said, “ forbade the suspicion.” Jenny made quite a success as an authoress ; only her views were “ dreadfully advanced,” folks said, “ and her observations, really, you know, so very severe.” However, she put her prin- ciples, whatever they were, into practice, and aided with purse as well as pen every genuine scheme of philanthropy if it only kept itself clear of patrons. She did not like patronage even IfOJV THEY LIVED EVER AFTERWARDS, 399 for other people, and as for herself it was dangerous to offer it. A very benevolent duchess who met Jenny on a Board once tried it on with her, and is said to have been greatly discomfited. Dalton^s version of his daughter's retort was that, shaking her curls and showing her teeth at Her Grrace like a Blenheim spaniel, she had said : “ Madam, don’t patronise one, or I’ll bite.” I am afraid Jenny has never forgiven Society for its behaviour to her and hers, when they “ went under; ” iDut on the other hand she does her best to help and comfort those who are in the same sad plight : for as to turning her back upon a friend — she would as soon think of enlisting in the Horse Guards. She was steadfast in all things, and from one resolution nothing moved her — namely, that she would never speak to Mrs. Camp- den. But for her, perhaps, some sort of reconciliation would have been patched up ; as it was, the two families never renewed their former intimacy. Mrs. Campden died in a few years — of a cold, said the county paper, caught in distributing tracts to “her poor people, by whom she was greatly revered;” but, strange to say, her loss brought Uncle George no nearer to his old friends the Daltons. He knew that they harboured a bad opinion of his Julia, and a certain chivalry of disposition for- bade him to make advances to them. In after-years indeed, Jeff and Kitty, with a whole tribe of pretty children, passed a summer month at Biverside ; but the old geniality was wanting ; Mr. Campden felt there was a sub- ject sealed between them, yet one to which it was difficult not to make allusion. He knew his wife had behaved ill, of course ; but he made excuses for her — such as we know nothing about. Women, as everybody knows, will cling to their husbands, be they ever such scoundrels ; and men will cling — though not so often — to wives who are mean and base, and make allowances for them such as astound the lookers on. Upon Jenny Dalton it was generally imagined that the plough of Adversity had made deep furrows, while her sister had re- mained unscathed, or that the marks of that rude discipline had soon worn away. But I venture to think that judgment was a superficial one. Kitty, like her mother, was a favourite in society, but — like her — the roots of all her happiness lay deep down in the garden-ground of Home. She forgave the world ; but in her heart she never forgot its sorry treatment : she was gracious in return for its civilities ; but she knew their value, and was not to be (twice) deceived. Strange to say, her father, as I have hinted, was much more 400 FALLEN FORTUNES. easily reconciled to his fair-weather friends, though he would sometimes gird at them. “ My darling,’^ he once said to Kitty, after a great reception at her house, and while he stood upon the hearth-rug, the last guest, previous to departure for the smoking-room of his club, “you have had a charming evening, and all these people have made themselves agreeable — or tried to do it ; but don't be de- ceived by appearances ; you had three or four hundred ‘ dear friends ’ here, but not half-a-dozen of them are really worth a button. You know we have tried it.” “ Well, papa, I think we should make allowances. People neglected us when we were poor, no doubt ; but no one, as a rule, acknowledges a claim which is founded only on senti- ment ; or if they do, they soon get weary of satisfying it. Then, again, it is easy to say : ‘ If we had been in their place we should have acted very differently.' Perhaps we should, indeed I know we should ; but they didn’t know it. I have no doubt, excuses — such as appeared justifications — occurred to them very readily.” “Nor I neither, my dear,” laughed Dalton. “ What I fear is, that, like your dear mother, you are so unsuspicious and so tender-hearted, that you take au serieux (as poor Holt would have said) all these fine folks’ professions. Now I believe that all the really good honest friends who would stand by one at a pinch can be counted upon the fingers of my two hands.” “ Then, my dear papa, you are still very credulous,” was Kitty’s unexpected reply : “it has long been my conviction that the fingers of one hand would be amply sufficient for the computation.” THE END. 