JOSEPH JENKINS; LEAVES FROM THE LIFE OF A LITERARY MAN. BY THE AUTHOR OF RANDOM RECOLLECTIONS," "THE GREAT METROPOLIS," &c. &c. PREFACE. The Author appears, on this occasion, in a new walk of literature. The hero he has chosen for his volumes has little of that romance in his character which is usually to be found in the heroes of modern novels. Such personages as Joseph Jenkins are everywhere to be met with ; and that is the main reason why the Author has made him the hero of his pages. The leading design of the book will, it is hoped, be evident to all. It is to point out the necessity of moral and religious principles, even to present happi- ness. It only remains to be added, that though iv PREFACE. the incidents recorded in these volumes did not take place in the precise order which the Author has assigned them, nor, in every in- stance, in the experience of the persons vnth whom he has connected them — they have this recommendation in their favour, that they are, one and all, founded on fact. London, Nov. IS-IS. 2 INTRODUCTORY NOTICE situations in Morayshire, the prospect is as ex- tensive as it is pleasant. From the summit of the hill, now called Quarrywood, though its ori- ginal name was Quarrelwood, the eye can take in, at one glance, no fewer than nine counties. Nor is its vision, even then, circumscribed by the intervention of physical objects : it is only because the eye possesses not the power of ex- tending its vision farther, that its range is thus limited : it literally loses itself in the immensity of space. Having a lively perception, and an exquisite relish for the beauties of nature, Joseph Jen- kins was in the habit of feasting his vision, for entire days, in. the season of summer, on the lovely panorama spread before him, as he seated himself on the summit of Quarrywood. He not only possessed a cultivated literary taste, but had much of the ardour and sanguine temperament of the poet in his composition. His fond ima- gination clothed his prospects in life — though prospects, properly speaking, he had none — OF OUR HERO. 6 with all the brightness and beauty of colour ex- hibited by the rainbow. He looked through the vista of futurity, and it was as pleasant to his mental eye as the lovely landscapes which graced the place of his nativity, were to his phy- sical vision. He dreamed not of the possibility of his path of life containing so much as one solitary thorn; he pictured it to himself as a path which, from the beginning to the end, he w^ould find strewed with flowers, soft to the feet, delightful to the eye, and fragrant to the smell. And yet he had no independency on which to rely ; he had not even a moderate competency to which he might look forward, as sure to afford him a refuge from want. He had been educated, and hitherto supported, on an annuity of 120/., which his mother received from Government, in virtue of her deceased husband having been an officer in the army. Being an only son, he was the idol of his mother's heart; every com- fort which her means could procure was enjoyed 4 DEATH OF HIS FATHER. by him ; and in the north of Scotland, where provisions of all kinds, fuel, house-rent, &c., are exceedingly cheap, a little sum, with judicious management, can be made to go a great length. If even in England, where living is more expensive. Goldsmith's poor curate was passing rich with his forty pounds a year, it may easily be believed that, with three times that sum, Joseph Jenkins and his mother were able to make a highly respectable appearance in a remote part of Scotland. With the latter, however, the pension died ; and, as she had lived up to her income, there was no expectancy for her son. The possibility of the death of the maternal parent, though he had been furnished with what ought to have proved a striking illustration of the uncertainty of life by the death, in his eighteenth year, of his father, seems never to have occurred to Joseph, It h passing strange, apart from the religious aspects of the question, that, at the very moment we are surrounded with the emblems of death, DEATH OF HIS FATHER. O and when the graves of departed friends can scarcely be said to be closed on our view, we are not only insensible to those solemn consi- derations which are associated with the uncer- tainty of life, but even entirely overlook the fact that our death, and the deaths of surviving friends, must, sooner or later, succeed the dis- solution of the friends that have gone before us. The author of "Night Thoughts" represents unreflecting man as considering himself im- mortal, while aware that all others are mortal. The observation admits of a more extended ap- plication. We often fondly fancy that the friends we most ardently love are immortal, as well as ourselves ; or, which is practically the same thing, we forget that they, like the rest of mankind, must one day sicken and die, and vanish from our society and our sight. But though the loss of Joseph's father, and the daily dissolution of others around him, never opened his eyes to the possibility of his mo- ther's being some day suddenly snatched from b DEATH OF HIS MOTHER. him, and to the certainty of the event which hap- peneth to all, happening one day to her ; his forgetfulness of that event did not defer it for even one little hour. She died w^ithin ten days of the twenty-fourth anniversary of his birth. Thus thrown on his o\vn resources, the question now forced itself, for the first time, on his serious attention — What was to be done to procure a livelihood ? He had, as has already been remarked, a taste for literary pursuits ; he was a young man of accurate and varied in- formation, and he possessed considerable facility in the art of composition ; some of his manu- script productions had been highly commended by competent judges: and the upshot was, that his friends advised him to quit his native coun- try, and try his fortune, as a literary man, in the great metropolis. The advice was in accordance with his own private predilections ; for he was proud of being . considered a literary man, and very ambitious of acquiring the reputation of a successful author. ARRIVAL IN LONDON. i He therefore resolved on repairing to London, and trusting for a subsistence to the produce of his pen. He reached the metropolis in 1821, with twenty-five pounds in his pocket, which was all that remained of the proceeds of his mother's furniture, after discharging a variety of trifling debts which she owed, and providing himself with the needful supply of apparel. Coming from a quiet, unpretending village, six hundred miles north of the metropolis, it may easily be imagined how much he was im- pressed with what he witnessed in London, as well as with the place itself. He was charmed with the novelty, and dazzled with the splen- dour, of what everywhere met his eye, as he passed along the great thoroughfares. Regent Street, however, possessed peculiar attractions to him. And here we may pause for a moment, though it \vill slightly interrupt the flow of the narrative, to make the observation, that not only no part of London, but nothing in Lon- 8 HIS FIRST IMPRESSIONS OF THE don, possesses the same permanent charm to a stranger as Regent Street. Buckingham Palace, the Parks, the British Museum, Westminster Abbey, the Houses of Parliament, St. Paul's, the Thames Tunnel, and a score of other places which it is unnecessary to name, may all rely upon receiving an early visit from him ; but nobody ever hears of his expressing a v^rish to see any of them a second time. With Regent Street the case is different. The charm which it possessed in his eye when he first put his foot in it, continues in all its original bright- ness: it never loses its loveliness; its attrac- tions do not diminish by familiarity. The splendour of its shops, the rich and never- ending variety of the objects contained in its windows ; the crowds of well-dressed persons perpetually promenading its pavements ; the dashing equipages, tenanted by the beauty and fashion of the land, which sweep past you in a stream of unbroken continuity ; — these are among the things which render Regent APPEARANCE OF LONDON. V Street a place of perpetual interest and attrac- tion to the stranger, and which, it might be added, prevent its becoming uninteresting or unattractive even to the eye of him who has been for years a resident in the metropolis. The bustle of Cheapside and the other crowded streets in the city contrasted strongly, in Joseph's view, with the stillness and repose of the peaceful village which he had left. He wondered whether the streets could be always as crowded as when he was proceeding along them, or whether there might not be some par- ticular cause for the moving masses of human beings which he beheld passing to and fro when- ever he chanced to be out. He was scarcely less confounded at the multitudes of horses, omnibuses, coaches, and other vehicles, which he saw in every direction. The whole scene was beyond anything he had ever conceived. It surpassed all his ideas of the business and bustle of the metropolis. It was with diihculty he could persuade himself that it was not all a b2 10 HIS FIRST IMPRESSIONS OF THE dream. Could it be real ? Did not his senses deceive him ? And if not — if what he saw was an actual scene — if it was only an every-day sight, whence could the vast concourse come from ? Where were they proceeding to ? What were their modes of earning a subsistence? How could they pursue their respective avoca- tions amidst so much bustle and confusion? These were questions which obtruded them- selves on his mind ; and the more he meditated on them, the more was he perplexed at the mysteries of metropolitan life. These, however, were only evanescent feel- ings. The novelty of the scene gradually wore off. Joseph's eye became familiarized to every- thing he saw around him, and the bustle and business ceased to excite his wonder. Ere two months had elapsed, he could pass along Cheap - side without indulging in a single feeling of surprise at the immense masses of men that are there continually moving in opposite currents. But, indeed, for the rough jostling which he APPEARANCE OF LONDON. 11 had every now and then to encounter in con- sequence of the crowd, he might have passed along without discovering that he had not the pavement to himself: so powerful are the effects of habit. CHAPTER II. Visits Cogers' Hall — Account of the origin, appearance, and nature of the place — A ludicrous incident. Every day of the first fortnight was diligently improved by Joseph in visiting the principal places of resort for strangers. But he was not one that would be satisfied with seeing the ordi- nary sights ; he wanted to witness human na- ture in the various phases it assumes in all great cities ; but especially in such a place as the modern Babylon. He had been to both Houses of Parliament, but he had not yet visited a sub- ordinate sort of senate, of which he had read in Scotland, wherein all the more prominent poli- tical questions of the day were nightly discussed, and where the speeches were said to be, in many instances, as able and eloquent as any which are delivered in either branch of the Legislature. ACCOUNT OF COGERS' HALL. 13 He did not remember the name of the place, but his description of the character of the pro- ceedings, enabled an acquaintance at once to point out the debating assembly into which he was desirous of being introduced. " Oh, it is the Cogers' Hall you mean," re- marked his friend. " That is the name of the place," observed Joseph. " In what part of London is it ? " " In the neighbourhood of St. Bride's Church." " Let us go together," said Mr. Jenkins. " I have no objection," returned the other. " Shall we go to-night ? " " If you wish it ; but this being Thursday, will not be a good night." "Is, then, one night better than another ?" " Oh, yes, there is a very great difference." " Which is the best night ? " " Saturday night. On that night the place is crowded. In fact Saturday night is always a field night in the Cogers' Hall." 14 ACCOUNT OF COGERS' HALL. " Suppose, then, we appoint Saturday night next." "Agreed." Joseph's friend kept his appointment, and to the Cogers' Hall they proceeded. But, before following them thither, let us pause for a little, and endeavour to give the reader some idea of the place. Cogers' Hall can boast of a very respectable antiquity; perhaps there is no other place in the country appropriated to discussions of the same kind, that has existed for an equal period. The discussions now nightly carried on in Cogers' Hall, commenced in the year 1 756. The circumstances in which they had their origin, beyond the fact of their being of a political cha- racter, are, we believe, unknown ; at any rate, our researches into the matter have not been rewarded with results on which we can rely. The name, Cogers' Hall, is said to have been derived from the word " cogitate ;" the per- sons forming the Society calling themselves co- ACCOUNT OF COGERS' HALL. 15 gitators, or reflectors, on the political events of the day. A number of individuals, who have afterwards risen to great distinction, have made their first appearance, as public speakers, in Cogers' Hall. Among these may be mentioned the name of the late Mr. Alderman Waithman, twice Lord Mayor of London, and for many years one of the Mem- bers for the city. The room in which the Cogers meet is not large. It is not capable of containing more than from fifty to sixty persons, with any de- gree of comfort, though a much larger number often cram themselves into it. The Cogers always muster most strongly on occasions of great political excitement. On such occasions, even on the evenings of the other days of the week, as well as on that of Saturday, the Hall is often crowded in every part. Every one is naturally anxious to express his opinions on the state of public affairs in all great political conjunctures. It is only at such seasons that 16 ACCOUNT OF COGERS' HALL. the inveterate political character of the Cogers is seen in its proper light. Nothing can exceed the earnestness of their manner in commenting on the conduct of public men, except in masti- cating their chops, steaks, Welsh rabbits, or any of the other good things which grace the ever amply-supplied larder of the landlord. In ordi- nary circumstances, a few of the fraternity re- joicing in the reputation of crack speakers, are allowed to monopolize the greater part of the oratory to themselves. Not so when there is great political excitement out of doors, — the phrase by which the Cogers, in imitation of both Houses of Parliament, usually designate the public ; then all are speakers. It may be worthy of mention, that the first time we visited Cogers' Hall, which was in company with a Coger of considerable standing, was on the Wed- nesday evening after the opening of the Parlia- ment of 1837. The public mind, it will be re- membered, was then very much occupied with the declaration of Lord John Russell against the ACCOUNT OF COGERS' HALL. 17 vote by ballot, the extension of the suffrage, the shortening of the duration of Parliaments, and, indeed, against all farther progress in the road to additional reform. That was a circum- stance which could not fail to call forth the Cogers from the retirement of private life. Ac- cordingly there was a numerous attendance, all eager to denounce the conduct of the then Home Secretary; and yet, paradoxical as the posi- tion may appear, the very excess of the general — I may say, universal — anxiety which prevailed on this occasion in Cogers' Hall, to play the orator, almost entirely prevented anything wor- thy of the name of public speaking taking place. We may be asked, "How could this be?" We will answer the question in as few words as possible. Well, then, the truth was, that so eager were the Cogers to give vent to their Ra- dicalism at so momentous a national crisis, that they endeavoured to speak by the dozen at a time. The only evil was, that the audience, not having individually a couple of dozen ears, so as 18 ACCOUNT OF COGERS' HALL. to lend two to each orator, could not hear a word of what was said. Sometimes, indeed, it seemed as if the speakers actually outnumbered the hearers. The Bahelish character of the eloquence was such, that hardly any of the speakers themselves heard what they were say- ing. The evil, consequently, soon cured itself; and eventually, from having twelve or fourteen orators all at once endeavouring to engage the attention of the remaining Cogers, there were scarcely any speaking at all. Here let us state a fact which is highly in praise of the Cogers. We have always observed that, however little respect they may show to one another, they invariably evince the most profound deference for " My Grand," — the title bestowed on the gentleman who has the honour of presiding in the Hall. Even on the memo- rable occasion to which reference has been made, when, from the anxiety of all to speak, there seemed to be a general determination that none should be heard; even on that occasion. ACCOUNT OF COGERS' HALL. 19 the moment *^ My Grand " opened his mouth, there was a profound and universal silence in the Hall. He made some pointed observations on the conduct of Lord John Russell, — which observations were loudly cheered. These were divided into three speeches. The first was delivered standing, and was as long as the re- maining two ; both of which were uttered while he retained his sitting posture in the chair. It should also be stated that, while delivering him- self of the two short orations, " My Grand " kept the pipe in his mouth, and continued, by some means or other, which are probably un- known to anybody but himself, to speak and smoke at the same time ; and this part of his duty he performed as well as if the capability of doing it had been one of the ordinations of nature, — which everybody knows is not the fact. It was impossible to help admiring the regularity with which the president of the Cogers took advantage of the necessary pause in his oration, while the Hall was resounding with the plaudits 20 ACCOUNT OF COGERS' HALL. with which his eloquence was greeted, to emit the inconveniently large collections of smoke which had " taken place " in his mouth. It was as gratifying to us to witness the " smoke which so gracefully curled " above " My Grand's " head, in these pauses in his orations, as the cheers of the Cogers must have been to him. It is pleasant to hear him speak ; but half the pleasure of hearing him would be lost, if his audience did not, at the same time, see him. He never comes to what he conceives a point, without accompanying the last word with a smile. He is one of the most pleasant chairmen that ever presided over the proceedings of any body of one's " fellow-subjects." He is full of good temper, and furnishes an impressive illus- tration in his own conduct of the rule he lays down for the guidance of others — namely, to use one of his own favourite phrases, of " bearing and forbearing." Shakspeare says of Falstaff, or of some other of his characters, that he was not only witty himself, but the cause of ACCOUNT OF COGERS' HALL. 21 wit in others. " My Grand" speaks repeatedly himself, and is the cause of oratory in his brother Cogers. When he is anxious for a discussion on any given point, he has only to commence it himself, or (as he calls it) give "a toast," to insure a regular succession of speakers. There can be no question that, but for him, there would not be half the oratory in Cogers' Hall which is heard in that interesting locality. The occupation of the members, were he un- happily absent, would chiefly consist in masti- cating Welsh rabbits, and swilling Boniface's bottled stout ; which last article the Cogers, to a man, declared to be unrivalled. Those who were present on the occasion, will remember that on one evening in November, 1838, seeing an unwonted dulness in the Hall, and a manifest indisposition in the countenances of the Cogers to play the Demosthenes of the evening, " My Grand " started to his legs, and, after a few introductory observations, proposed, as the subject of discussion, " The 22 ACCOUNT OF COGERS' HALL. Reform of the Reform Bill." The announce- ment was received with thunders of applause : its effect, indeed, was electrical. Cogers started up to speak in such rapid succession, that you would have thought at one time they would " stretch to the crack of doom." Did we say suc- cession ? That is not the proper word. They started up in half-dozens, and a most interest- ing and animated discussion ensued. There is one indication which " My Grand" always gives of his intention to speak, about half-a- minute before he begins, which is, putting his pipe in the centre of his mouth, and then causing it to project in a straight line. Most people prefer putting their pipes in one side of their mouth, and then placing them in a slanting position. So does "My Grand" in ordinary circumstances ; but let those who are curious in such matters only observe the motions of "My Grand" for one even- ing, and see whether he does not, before making a speech — no matter how often he may A LUDICROUS INCIDENT. Z8 speak in the course of the evening — invariably adjust his pipe in the particular way we have mentioned. When it happens (which it seldom does) that neither " My Grand" nor his deputy enters the Hall in time to take the chair, any person pre- sent is eligible to the office of president for the evening, in the event of a motion for his being chosen to it, being made and carried. On such occasions, if a stranger be in the room, a hoax is played oif at his expense, by his being elected president for the evening, and then made to pay a certain penalty for the honour. A short time ago, a Yorkshireman, remarkable for his money-getting and money-keeping pro- pensities, who had heard a great deal about the Cogers, and was consequently anxious to see what sort of animals they were, determined, on the very first night of his arrival in town, to pay a visit to their Hall. He was accompanied by two friends — one of them, Mr. Huggins, as celebrated for his waggeries as for his literary 24 A LUDICROUS INCIDENT. abilities, which are certainly very great. Seeing the chair empty on their entrance, and it being past the usual time of "My Grand's" arrival, the wag had scarcely taken his seat when he rose and said — " Gentlemen, seeing the chair unoccupied, I have infinite pleasure in rising to propose that we choose, as our president for the evening, my very worthy and esteemed friend, Mr. John Rogers, who sits on my right. He has never been here before; indeed, this is the first day he has ever put foot in the metropolis." The object of Mr. Huggins in making the intimation, was at once understood, and all prepared forthwith for a cordial co-operation with him in the hoax about to be practised. "Yes, gentlemen," continued Mr. Huggins, "my excellent friend has never been in Lon- don before ; but, notwithstanding that, I know enough of his intellectual acquirements, com- bined with his business habits (which are of the first-rate order), to justify me in saying that he A LUDICROLS INCIDENT. ^O will make an admirable cliairman. (Loud cheers, amidst which Mr. Rogers, as he himself afterwards remarked, blushed " profoundly," and held down his head.) Without one word of farther preface, therefore, I propose that Mr. Rogers do take the chair." '^ I second the motion with all my heart," said the other friend of Mr. Rogers. The question was put, and carried amidst acclamations, which almost threatened to cause an explosion of the Hall. The artist then took Mr. Rogers by tlie hand, and conducted him to the chair with an edifying observance of etiquette. " Gentlemen," said Mr. Rogers, betaking himself to his legs, after he had graced the chair for a few seconds in a sitting posture — " gentlemen, I do assure you that this is a most unexpected, as it soortainly is a most un- deserved, honour. When I coom to Lunnun this morning, I never dreamt of any such dis- tinction being conferred upon me. I will, gen- VOL. I. c SSO A LUDICROUS INCIDENT. tlemen, remember, with the deepest gratitude, this night till the hour of my death. I thank you, from the bootoom of my heart, for the hoonour you have done me." "Mr. Chairman," said Mr. Huggins, "you have great reason to be proud of the high and honourable position to which you have been elevated by the unanimous votes, and amidst the loudest acclamations, of this most respect- able — indeed, I may say philosophical, assem- blage." Mr. Rogers made a low bow, put his hand to his breast, while his physiognomy, which was of very ample proportions, deeply coloured from ear to ear, and from the summit of his brow to the lower extremity of his chin. "But, Mr, Chairman," continued Mr. Hug- gins, "something more than mere thanks is always expected, and indeed exacted, on such an occasion as this, before commencing the business of the evening. A small penalty is" A LUDICROUS INCIDENT. 21 Mr. Rogers started at the word penalty, and then looked marvellously grave. " A small penalty is always imposed on any gentleman who has, for the first time, conferred upon him the distinguished honour which you have this evening received, amidst universal and deafening applause. That penalty is " Here John looked as if he w^ould burst, from the intensity of his anxiety to learn what the nature and amount of the penalty were. " That penalty, Mr. Chairman, is the placing of five guineas in the hands of the treasurer, for the purpose of getting your portrait taken to hang on the walls of this room," Mr. Rogers stood aghast. He was too con- founded to utter a word. "But," resumed Mr. Huggins, with the greatest possible gravity — " but, Mr. Chairman, if, from delicacy or other considerations, you have any objection to your likeness being taken and affixed to these walls, you can escape that penalty by submitting to another, which, 28 A LUDICROUS INCIDENT. considering that less than the usual number of members are present to-night, will prove much lighter than the one already mentioned." Mr. Rogers began to breathe more freely. " That penalty, Mr. Chairman, is, that the gentlemen now present have the privilege of ordering anything of the waiter they please, to the extent of a shilling each, at your ex- pense. It is for yourself, Mr. Chairman, to make your choice." " Moost (must) I pay either penalty ?" groaned Mr. Rogers. "Oh, certainly; it's indispensable," shouted all present, with one voice. "Well, gentlemen, if I moost, I moost; but I'm so taken by surprise that I hardly know what to do," " It is not my intention to dictate, Mr. Chair- man; but, as it may be inconvenient for you, who are to be only a short time in town, to give the requisite number of sittings for your portrait, I think it would be the better way to A LUDICROUS INCIDENT. 29 accept the latter alternative at once. And you may think yourself exceedingly fortunate that there is not a full attendance to-night; as, in that case, you would have had, instead of fifty shillings, to pay five pounds.'* " If you take my advice, Mr. Chairman," said John's other friend, "you will decide in favour of the latter penalty at once ; for see," he added, pointing to the wall, " out of the many hundreds who have been chosen as you have this night, and, consequently, incurred the penalty annexed to the high honour, only those three chose to have their portraits taken ; all the others preferred the second alterna- tive. " Yes, and those three would have done the same, only they knew they had exceedingly handsome countenances, of which they were ver}^ vain. The portrait of any one not having a handsome face would look horrible, by con- trast, if placed beside them." This decided Mr. Rogers; he hesitated no 30 A LUDICROUS INCIDENT. longer. He was the proprietor of one of the most ugly visages which anybody ever wit- nessed, and, what was more, was sensible of the fact. "Waiter!" he shouted most lustily, though the functionary wanted was within a few yards of him. " Waiter !" " Coming, sir." " How many gentlemen are there here ? " " Besides yourself, sir ? " " Besides myself." " One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten forty-nine, sir." " Then bring them in a shilling's-worth of whatever they shall order." " Yes, sir," responded William. " Come, come, Mr. Chairman, you're for- getting yourself," interrupted Mr. Huggins. " Oh, must I order something for myself also ? " " Why, certainly, there's no compulsion ; but surely, Mr. Chairman, you would not sit and see us all enjoying ourselves at your expense, and not join us." A LUDICROUS INCIDENT. 31 "Waiter I" "Yes, sir." " Bring me a glass of brandy-and-water." , Mr. Rogers paid his £2 10s., with a trifle to the waiter. The usual speechification was pro- ceeded with ; but the expenditure of his money deprived him of all the pleasure which he would otherwise have derived from the distinction of being chairman. He vacated the chair at an early hour,resolved that he would never again cross the threshold of Cogers' Hall, and in- wardly heaping maledictions on the heads of the friends who had " taken him in " in a double sense. CHAPTER III. Joseph, seeing the necessity, resolves to do something for his own support — Determines, with that view, on the publica- tion of a poem entitled "The Universe" — Calls on the prince of publishers, to offer him the manuscript — Is dis- appointed in not obtaining an interview — Returns home, and sends the manuscript for the bibliopole's inspection — The result. Before Joseph had been many weeks in the metropolis, he discovered that his limited funds were rapidly undergoing the process of diminu- tion. Every stranger in London, who wishes to make any appearance in society, will, how- ever careful he may be to avoid extravagance, soon make the same discovery ; for he is liable to overcharge and imposition at every step he takes. Consequently, though living in London be expensive at all times and to all persons, it is peculiarly so to the man who is unacquainted with its ways. Our hero, finding his funds fast A MANUSCRIPT POEM. 33 disappearing, and feeling that he was thrown en- tirely on his own resources, began to think se- riously of what he was to do. He had written a poem, when in his twentieth year, on a very comprehensive subject, and one, more- over, of universal and enduring interest: the subject was " The Universe," and that he pro- posed to be the title of the book. Hitherto, the poem had lain in undisturbed repose in his trunk : it had never been offered to any pub- lisher ; in fact, there was no publisher in the north of Scotland to whom it could be offered. The only individuals who had seen " The Uni- verse," were a few private friends, and, as is al- ways the case, they were rapturous in their ad- miration of it. They were unanimous in the opinion, that it was destined at once to raise the author to the highest distinction at which a literary man could aspire — to place him, in- deed, on a level with Shakspeare and Milton ; and to procure him that competence, if not for- tune, wliich is the usual accompaniment of a c 2 34 CALLS ON A PUBLISHER, first-rate literary reputation. He therefore re- solved on applying himself, in the first instance, to the disposal of his manuscript to a " respect- able publisher ;" not doubting that the name it would get him, immediately on its publication, would at once insure him a market for what- ever else he might write, whether in poetry or prose. Joseph therefore determined on calling per- sonally, next morning, with his manuscript, on the prince of poetic publishers. Who that gen- tleman is, need not be more particularly indi- cated. He is known almost as extensively as any of the illustrious poets whose works he has brought out in every variety of form, in a style of surpassing typographical and pictorial ele- gance, and at* so cheap a rate as would make the poets of a previous age hold up their hands in amazement, were they only permitted to revisit our sphere, and to gaze on these " illus- trated editions " of the press of the present day. It is no stretch of the imagination to suppose, TO OFFER HIM THE WORK. 35 that were the shades of Shakspeare, Pope, Thomson, and others — Milton, having been blind in his latter years, is necessarily out of the question — cognizant of the elegance with which modern works are brought out, they would wish that the period of their appearance in the world had been deferred until near the middle of the nineteenth century. But this is a digres- sion. Joseph, according to the resolution he had formed, called, the following morning, with the manuscript of " The Universe " in his pocket, on the Leviathan bibliopole. He found two cabriolets and a carriage at the door of his business premises, which, as every one knows, are situated in a fashionable street at the West End. He entered, and inquired whether Mr. Harold was at home. " Your name, sir, if you please," said a gen- tlemanly-looking young man behind the counter. " I only want a few words with him," re- marked Mr. Jenkins. 36 VISIT TO THE PUBLISHER. " Perhaps you would send up your card, sir," suggested the other. Joseph had no card to send up. In the north of Scotland, cards are not very common among young persons, not even among the younger branches of the better orders of society ; and he was not aware, that in London a card is almost as indispensable to a person with any preten- sions to respectability, as a coat or hat. ** My name," said Joseph, ingeniously avoid- ing the subject of the card, " is Mr. Jenkins." " Tell Mr. Harold that Mr. Jenkins wishes to see him," said the party behind the counter, to another young man in an inner room. The latter vanished for a few seconds, and then re-appeared. " Mr. Harold, sir, is sorry that he is so much engaged at present, as to be unable to see you." *' Shall I call again?" inquired Mr. Jenkins. " Perhaps you would be kind enough to men- tion the nature of your business. Would any one else than Mr. Harold do ? '-' VISIT TO THE PUBLISHER. 37 " I should like to see Mr. Harold himself: it is about a matter of great importance to him, as well as to me." " He is very sorry, sir ; but he is particularly engaged at present." ' " Could you mention any other hour at which I should be likely to see him ? " " It is quite impossible to say ; the claims on his time are so many and urgent." " I wish to make him the Jirst offer of a poem." " A poem, and by a Mr. Jenkins ! a name unknown to poetic or any other kind of fame ! " Both the individuals in the employ of Mr. Harold felt instantaneously relieved. " Hadn't you better ivrite to Mr. Harold on the subject?" suggested the elder of the two. " That would be your best course," remarked the other. " Very good ; well, I shall write to him. Good morning, gentlemen." " Good morning, sir." 38 THE RESULT. Joseph returned home with his manuscript. The polite conduct of the young men prevented his seeing anything unpromising in the inter- view with them; while nothing unfavourable could be inferred as regarded Mr. Harold himself, he being not only so pressingly en- gaged as to be inaccessible at the time, but ignorant of the great poetic prize which Joseph meant to place within his reach. Had he only known that it was Mr. Jenkins, the author of ** The Universe," who was desirous of seeing him, and that the purport of his presence in his bibliopolic premises, was to offer him " The Universe," the parties to whom the cabriolets and the carriage at the door belonged, who were enjoying the privilege of an interview, would have received a polite hint to make way for him. Joseph, the moment he returned to his rooms, eagerly snatched up pen and paper, and despatched a note to Mr. Harold. He apprized him of his having called that morning upon THE RESULT. 39 him at Periodical Street, but found him too deeply engaged to be accessible. He added, that the object of his visit was, to offer him the manuscript of " The Universe," a poem which would extend to ^00 pages, and would sell for half-a-guinea without illustrations, but for which a guinea might, with propriety, be charged, if liberally and tastefully illustrated. He now begged to send the manuscript for his inspection, and would be glad to hear from him in the course of a few days, stating what he would be disposed to give for it. On the third day, Joseph received a note from Mr. Harold, along with his manuscript, thanking him for the offer of his poem of " The Universe," but regretting that it was not in his power to avail himself of it, Joseph was confounded at this. Not in his power to avail himself of it! Why, what was to prevent him, if he felt so inclined ? It could only be the want of will, not the want of power, that prevented his acceptance of the 40 THE RESULT. offer. And that a man should be indisposed to avail himself of such an opportunity as might never again present itself, w^as, indeed, passing strange. " There must be some mistake in the matter; indeed there must," reasoned Joseph. " Ah ! " said he, suddenly dropping his hand on his head after a few moments' abstraction — "ah! I see how it is; he has not read the manuscript ; he has too hastily inferred that it is of the same common-place character as most of the poetry of the day. He must be unde- ceived ; indeed he must." And, in prompt execution of his newly- formed purpose, Mr. Jenkins sent " The Universe" on a second visit to Mr. Harold, accompanied with a note to the effect, that he was certain he had returned the manuscript without reading it, and begging that he would bestow upon it an attentive perusal. In less than an hour from its quitting Mr. Jenkins' lodgings, " The Universe " was re- turned to him, with a note from Mr. Harold, THE RESULT. 41 posilively declining the publication of the work ; and adding that, though the whole of the poem had not been read, enough of it had been perused to justify the resolution not to under- take its publication. The rejected manuscript arrived, on this occasion, at a most unseasonable moment ; for, just as the energetic knock of the messenger who brought it was heard at the door, the author was in deep debate in his own mind as to whether he ought to accept £500 for it; assuming that Mr. Harold would be so defi- cient in liberality as to offer so moderate a sum. It will not, therefore, surprise the reader to be told, that he felt considerably mortified at the result of his second application to the prince of publishers. He had no doubt of speedily meeting with some more discerning bibliopole, who would feel but too happy in bringing out a work which would not only prove the source of ample profit to him, but 42 THE RESULT. raise his reputation as a publisher. Still he could not divest his mind of the unpleasantness arising from the reflection, that the work would not possess the advantages and the eclat of being ushered into the world under the aus- pices of him who had brought out the works of two of the greatest poets of the age. CHAPTER IV. Though disappointed with the result of his first effort to dis- pose of his poem, Joseph renews the attempt with another eminent publisher — Waits on, and is admitted to an inter- view with, the latter — His mode of dealing with authors — The nature and result of the interview. While the fruitless attempt which we have just recorded was being made to induce Mr. Harold to purchase the manuscript of " The Universe," the finances of the author, as will be easily supposed, were becoming lower and lower every day. As a question of pounds, shillings, and pence, and wholly without refer- ence to the reputation he so confidently ex- pected to obtain for it, it now became a point of urgent importance that Mr. Jenkins should lose no time in procuring a purchaser. He therefore resolved to renew the effort without delay. Accordingly, on the following day, he 44 CALLS ON A SECOND PUBLISHER. called on Mr. Fiction, another publisher of celebrity, to submit his manuscript to him. Mr. Fiction's plan of doing business differed materially from that pursued by Mr. Harold. Proud of his aristocratic connexions, the latter made it a rule not to see any person who was not himself the possessor of a title, or who came without an introduction from some aristocratic acquaintance. Mere merit was nothing in his eyes. Even a second Shakspeare, coming to him without the recommendation of some nobleman, or person of family, would not succeed in his efforts to obtain an interview with him ; while the man that could boast of some illustrious prefix to his name — such as " The Marquis of," " Lord," or even " Sir " — was sure, however humble his intellectual pretensions, to be received with the most obsequious politeness. Mr. Fiction, on the other hand, though no man was more re- spectful to persons of rank — and the feeling is a very proper one — conceived it possible that MR. FICTION. 45 there might be merit in a book, though no no- ble blood ran in the author's veins. In support of this hypothesis, he was in the habit of mus- ino- over, in his own mind, the nam.es of many of the greatest men that the world ever pro- duced—all of whom had no distinctions of birth or rank to boast of. His plan, therefore, was, to grant personal interviews to all who called upon him, lest some of them— and, possibly, the least likely in ap- pearance—might have some "happy idea" to suggest, or promising proposal to make. But, in order that there should be no undue expen- diture of time with literary men, from whom, after hearing their propositions, he saw no rea- son to expect " anything to his advantage," he had given standing orders to one of his clerks to enter the apartment precisely five minutes after the interview had commenced, and to say, " A gentleman wants to see you, sir." If the work which the other party had to propose for pub- lication did not appear to Mr. Fiction a promis- 46 MR. FICTION. ing speculation, he desired his clerk to usher the imaginary gentleman "into an adjoining room," adding, " I'll be with him this moment ;" and then rising, and turning to the author, he would make a low bow, and express a hope that he would excuse him. Of course there was no alternative for the poor literary man, but to walk himself out of the room, Mr. Eiction po- litely accompanying him to the door. If, on the other hand, the bibliopole liked the " idea" — for that is the technical word when an author has any promising work to propose for publication — the clerk was desired, when he rushed into the room, announcing that "a gentleman" wished to see Mr, Fiction, to ** tell the gentleman" that he was very much engaged just now. Should this chapter meet the eye of any in- experienced author, who may happen to make proposals to Mr. Fiction for the publication of a work, and hear him give the above instruc- tions to the clerk, instead of desiring him to " put the gentleman into the other room ;" let him INTERVIEW WITH MR. FICTION. 4< take courage, and try to make for himself the best terms he can. Joseph presented himself on the morning for- merly mentioned, outside the counter of Mr. Fiction's bibliopolic premises. His name was intimated in the usual way ; and the party mak- ing the intimation immediately returned, and desired him to walk up to Mr. Fiction's room. He was ushered into the presence of the enter- prising bibliopole, and politely asked to take a chair. " Good morning, sir." " Good morning, Mr. Fiction." " You have come, I presume " " I have come to propose to you the publi- cation of a work " ** A work of fiction, in three vols." interposed the spirited bibliopole. " No, sir, a work of a very difierent descrip- tion," said Mr. Jenkins, with a slight dash of self- importance in his manner, as if he considered a work of fiction to be unworthy his genius. 48 INTERVIEW WITH MR. FICTION. **0h, I beg your pardon," remarked Mr. Fiction, apologetically ; " a work of travels, perhaps." " No, sir ; certainly not, Mr. Fiction. It is a work on a theme of universal and enduring interest, and not referring to any particular country or time." "A theme,'' ejaculated Mr. Fiction to him- self. " A theme ! That is a word which very few of my authors ever use. * Plots,' * stories,' * incidents,' * heroes,' * heroines,' ' denouements,' and so forth, are quite familiar to my ears; but * theme ' does sound somewhat strange. Pray, Mr. Jenkins, what may your work be?" " ^ The Universe, sir.' " Mr. Fiction was confounded. " I don't ex- actly understand you, Mr. Jenkins." "Oh, I flatter myself, sir, there is nothing unintelligible in what I have said," replied Joseph, with a forced self-complacent smile. " Oh, I simply mean that I do not know INTERVIEW WITH MR. FICTION. 49 whether * The Universe ' be the subject or the title of your proposed work." ** It is both, sir," said Mr. Jenkins, empha- tically. " Oh ! And how many volumes do you pro- pose making it?" " Only one." *^ Only one ! We are not fond of publishing works in only one volume ; we always prefer three ; because the expense of advertising three volumes is no greater than the expense of ad- vertising one. Could you not, at any rate, spin it out to two volumes, supposing that, on examination, I approve of the work ? " " Oh, dear no, sir ; I could not do that. Spin it out! Why, to add a single line to it would completely spoil it." " It is a work of light or miscellaneous lite- rature, is it not?" inquired Mr. Fiction, half dubiously. " Certainly not, sir," replied Mr. Jenkins, mouthing the words in a particular manner, and VOL. I. D 50 INTERVIEW WITH MR. FICTION. looking as if he deemed the question an im- proper reflection on the constitution of his mind, and the purpose to which he had applied his talents. " Not a work of fiction ; nor a book of tra- vels; nor consisting of light or miscellaneous literature! Pray, then, Mr. Jenkins, will you be good enough to inform me what is the nature of your proposed work ? " " It is a poem, sir ; the volume will consist of one great poem, sir," replied Mr. Jenkins, em- phatically, and with a dash of self-consequence in his manner. Mr. Fiction looked aghast. Had Mr. Jen- kins been a burglar, and been in the act of plundering his apartments at the time, he could scarcely have looked more astonished than he did on the occasion. "We never publish ani/ poetry," said the bibliopole, after he had slightly recovered his breath. " But this work, Mr. Fiction, is not a poem INTERVIEW WITH MR. FICTION. 51 of an ordinary class; neither, I flatter myself, is the subject treated in an ordinary manner. The manuscript has been seen by a number of com- petent judges, and they, one and all, declare that they never saw anything that could " Joseph was interrupted in the delivery of his sentence by the abrupt self-introduction of the clerk, with the usual announcement, " A gen- tleman wishes to see you, sir." " Show him into another room ; I'll be with him presently," said Mr. Fiction. And, as he spoke, he rose from his seat; which, of course, Mr. Jenkins understood to be a signal for him to do the same. " Then, Mr. Fiction," observed Mr. Jenkins, slowly taking up his hat, "you do not think it advisable to undertake the publication of * The Universe.' " " We never publish any poetry." ** Then, good morning, Mr. Fiction." ** Good morning, Mr. Jenkins." LIBRARY UNIVERSITY or \\.mm CHAPTER V. Makes a third attempt to get a purchaser for his manuscript — Fails as before — Resolves to publish the work on his own account — Some secrets worth knowing respecting authorship and publishing — Extent of the sale of '* The Universe." This looked ominous; and, sanguine as was Mr. Jenkins' temperament, he began to have serious apprehensions that, after all, he should not succeed in procuring a publisher for " The Universe." Not that he thought one iota the less of the production, but that there was now a probabihty of his failing to persuade a pub- lisher that its merits were as great as he and his Scottish admirers conceived they were. Still, possessing, as he did, no inconsiderable share of that quality — the quality of perseverance — for which his countrymen get so much credit, he resolved not to relinquish the attempt to find a publisher for a work, which, he felt assured, would not only prove pecuniarily profitable both TRIES A THIRD PUBLISHER. 5S to the publisher and to himself, but procure him a name in the literary world, which would induce the bibliopoles of the metropolis to pour in their solicitations to him to honour them with the publication of his future works. Besides, the daily decreasing condition of his funds rendered it necessary that he should lose no time in getting his book brought out. He therefore, on the following day, called on a third publisher, in the hope that he should be more successful with him than he had been with either of the former two. An interview was asked for, and promptly obtained. Mr. Jenkins stated the purport of his visit. The bibliopole smiled. " Ah, sir, I perceive you're not much acquainted with the literary world yet. You'll soon see the folly of writing poetry." "I don't understand what you mean, sir," observed Mr. Jenkins, pettishly. " Then you soon will, depend on it. You'll excuse me, sir, but I'm very much engaged this morning." 54 FAILS AS BEFORE. Of course this was a hint, which there was no mistaking, that our hero's presence could be dispensed with, and he accordingly quitted the place. The unfeeling manner in which the biblio- pole spoke to Joseph, made a painful impression on his mind. And no wonder ; for, to a young man just entering on metropolitan life, and wholly unacquainted with the ways of the world, it was a piece of gratuitous harshness. He might not only have civilly declined the publication of the work, but he might, by a slight alteration of the words and the tone of their utterance, have converted his heartless sneer into a piece of sound advice. Publishers, however, are proverbial — though, happily, there are many honourable exceptions — for their dis- regard of an author's, and especially a young author's, feelings. Having, as a class, no very lively susceptibilities themselves, they are un- able to sympathise with those who have. But it is not my purpose to enter on the un- A NEW IDEA STRIKES HIM. 55 pleasant treatment which authors too often receive at the hands of their publishers. Those who would like to see some striking specimens of such treatment, ought to consult D'Israeli's " Curiosities of Literature." Mr. Jenkins, though still on equally good terms with himself as a poet and as a man of general talent, and not thinking a whit less favourably of his poem on "The Universe," now began to feel something approaching to despair. Still, the necessity of doing some- thing with the poem — that is, as he fancied, getting something for the manuscript — not only continued as pressing as before, but became more and more urgent every hour. While deliberating that night, as he lay restless on his bed, and when, with a less anxious mind, he would have been sound asleep, as to what he should do on the following day, it occurred to him, that he had heard of authors publishing their works on their own account. He was delighted with the thought. He had no doubt 56 PUBLISHES ON HIS OWN ACCOUNT. of the success of the book : it could not fail to be admired wherever read, and, if admired, to command a remunerating sale ; while there was this most grateful reflection, that it would no longer be in the power of publishers to insult him. He therefore called on a printer, and received an estimate of the expenses of paper and printing for 1000 copies; the volume to consist of thirteen sheets, post octavo, which, as each sheet consists of twenty-four pages, would make 312 pages. The estimate given by the printer was, sixty-five pounds for cash, or seventy pounds with credit. Ready money Mr. Jenkins could not, of course, give ; and the question therefore was, how could he obtain credit for a few months? The friend, intro- duced in the second chapter, who accompanied him to Cogers' Hall, eventually undertook, though disapproving of the plan of publishing on his own account, to become security for him. This arrangement being completed, and the work having been put to press, Mr. Jenkins SECRETS WORTH KNOWING. 57 called, one morning, on Mr. Figure, a publisher in the city. " Mr. Figure, I believe," said Mr. Jenkins, on entering the shop of the former. "Figure is my name," remarked the bibhopole. " My name is Jenkins. I have come to pro- pose a work of mine for publication." Mr. Figure remained silent for a few seconds, looked at the counter, and then inquired, " What is the nature of the work, sir ? " " A poem, entitled ' The Universe.' " " Oh, sir," said the bibhopole, with a signi- ficant shake of the head, and transferring a book, which was lying on the counter, to one of his shelves, " Oh, sir, I should no more think of publishing a poem than of attempting to fly. Money thrown in the streets, sir — money thrown in the streets. Though Byron himself were to rise from the dead, and come and offer me the manuscript of a new * Childe Harold, I would not accept it as a present ; it would fall still-born from the press. There is no such thing now as a" d2 58 SECRETS WORTH KNOWING. "But this," interposed Mr. Jenkins, "is a poem of a very peculiar character." "No matter; it is all the same. Any poem would drop still-born from the press. There is no taste for poetry now-a-days. No publisher, depend upon it, will undertake its publication." " But I did not mean that it should be pub- lished at your expense," said Mr. Jenkins. " Oh ! ah ! I see — you mean to publish it on commission;" and Mr. Figure's countenance brightened as he spoke. " I do, sir." "You simply wish me to publish it on your account." " Precisely so." " Of course I can have no objection to that; and, what is more, I will do my best to push it." " What is the amount of commission in such cases ? " inquired Mr. Jenkins. " Ten per cent ; that is the invariable rule of the trade, sir." SECRETS WORTH KNOWING. 59 " And you account to the author for all sales at trade price, after deducting ten per cent. " " Just so, sir." "But you quite dishearten me, Mr. Figure, by telling me that no poem can now-a-days succeed." " Well, perhaps I spoke too rashly and without due limitations, on that point. More strictly speaking I ought, possibly, to have said, that poetry in general does not now succeed." " So that you think there is, at least, a chance of my work succeeding." " Oh, certainly, there is a chance." " Well, I'm glad you say so." " When, Mr. Jenkins, will the work be ready?" *' In about a fortnight." " I hope you have chosen a happy title." " Every one assures me that the title is un- deniably good." " Pray what may it be ? " " * The Universe.' " 60 SECRETS WORTH KNOWING. " Oh ! excellent ! admirable ! Nothing could be better," exclaimed the bibliopole, now cheer- ing on the luckless wight of a poet, and having an eye to the profits which would be derived from the advertisements, and the service it would be to himself, by keeping his name before the public, even should not a single copy be sold. " Of course you'll advertise it well," continued Mr. Figure. "Oh, certainly," replied Mr. Jenkins, "I'll do everything I can that way to bring it fairly into notice. What is the best mode of manag- ing that part of the matter ? " "Why, sir, by my expending in advertise- ments any amount of money you think proper to leave in my hands for the purpose." " How much will be necessary ? " "Oh, that depends on the circumstances and disposition of the author. It would require, at least, twenty pounds to do the work anything like justice." SECRETS WORTH KNOWING. 61 " Why," remarked Mr. Jenkins, " that is more than I can conveniently spare. At any rate, in the first instance, suppose we say half the sum ? " " Very well, I will lay it out judiciously, as far as the amount will go." " Then I will call with the money in two or three days, and you can begin advertising im- mediately." "Very good," said Mr. Figure; and Mr. Jenkins wished him a good morning. The ten pounds were handed to Mr. Figure, and a succession of advertisements appeared in the leading daily and weekly papers. The work itself followed in due course. By this time the resources of Mr. Jenkins had completely dried up ; and knowing that, however successful the work might be, some weeks, at least, would elapse before he could expect any return from his publisher, he bethought himself of applying to a friend in Scotland for the loan often pounds for a few weeks. His application was success- 62 OPINIONS OF ful ; the money was immediately remitted to him; and he resolved, as he expressed it, to " rest on his oars " for a season, to watch the progress, which, in his view, was but another name for the triumph, of his work. " The Uni- verse " was extensively reviewed. The opinions of the critics were as diversified as it was possi- ble for opinions to be. Some of them, in the plenitude of their admiration of the poem, gravely asserted that it was superior to " Para- dise Lost," or to anything which ever proceeded from Milton's pen. Others, less lofty in their eulogiums, said it was only second to the work just named ; while some six or seven reviewers maintained that it was a farrago of nonsense ; that it was neither poetry nor prose ; that, in- deed, there was not another man in the king's dominions (we had not then the happiness of living under a queenly government) who could have written anything so supremely and unre- deemably absurd. There was not an inter- mediate opinion -between these opposite judg- SALE OF '^ THE UNIVERSE." 63 merits, but was expressed by one or other of the critics with whom the metropolis abounds. Regarding it as the more dignified course not to make any inquiries at the pubUsher's as to what reception, in the way of sale, his poem was meeting with, until after it had been some time before the public, Joseph resolved not to call on the former until the expiration of the six weeks, the term for which he had obtained the loan of the ten pounds. Even then he would have made no inquiries as to the sale of " The Universe," had it not been that he prided him- self on his punctuality, and on his faithful ful- filment of any promise he had made. He felt that his countryman in Scotland, who had ge- nerously advanced him the ten pounds, at a time of great emergency, had the best right to ex- pect a moiety of the first profits of the work. In six weeks he accordingly called on Mr. Figure to inquire how matters stood ; having, by this time, fully decided, in his own mind, as to the best way of disposing of the proceeds of the sale, 64 SALE OF " THE UNIVERSE." after he should have remitted his friend's ten pounds. Mr. Figure was all civility to Mr. Jen- kins. **And how is *The Universe' doing?" inquired the poet. '' It has been extensively reviewed, and in several journals in most grati- fying terms," he added. "I'll show you presently," answered Mr. Figure, advancing to his desk, and snatching up his ledger. " Oh, don't trouble yourself to refer to your book; I only want a rough guess," said Mr. Jenkins. " Why, it will, perhaps, be more satisfactory to see the exact position of matters," pursued the bibliopole. " It is wholly unnecessary," said the poet; " it will be quite sufficient if you just name the amount of the proceeds." " Oh, you had better see the exact position of affairs. Here, sir," placing the book before Mr. Jenkins — " here, sir, is the precise state of mat- ters." SALE OF "the universe." 65 Mr. Jenkins eagerly glanced his eye at the folio to which the bibliopole directed his atten- tion, and read as follows ; — Francis Figure, Dr. to Mr. Joseph Jenkins. To three copies of " The Universe" (trade price 7s. 2d.) £116 To commission (10 per cent.) . . . . 2 1| Amount due to Mr. Jenkins 19 4J The blood rushed to Mr. Jenkins' face ; his eyes were seized with partial blindness ; a sud- den dizziness overtook him, and it was with dif- ficulty he could retain his equilibrium. When he had slightly recovered his self-possession, he said, " Mr. Figure." " Sir," " Surely there must be some mistake here." " No mistake, Mr. Jenkins." " You don't mean to say that these are all the copies of * The Universe' you have sold." " I do, sir." " It's impossible." 66 SALE OF " THE UNIVERSE." " It's true," remarked Mr. Figure, with im- perturbable coolness. Mr. Jenkins inwardly groaned. " Shall I pay you the nineteen and fourpence farthing just now ? " said Mr. Figure. " Mr. Figure, do you mean to insult me, sir ? " answered Mr. Jenkins, with considerable indignation. " Not at all ; by no means ; only a business question, sir," remarked the bibliopole, with the most perfect nonchalance. " We can settle at some other time. You don't mean to say, Mr. Figure, that three copies are all that will sell?" observed the poet. *' That is a point on which it is impossible to give an opinion," said the publisher. " Do works ever sell after they have been some time published, and proved a failure ? " " Oh, yes," answered Mr. Figure ; " Milton's ' Paradise Lost,' you know, is a case in point." Mr. Jenkins groaned an assent to the accuracy of the statement. SALE OF " THE UNIVERSE. bi " What can be the cause of so decided a failure?" pursued the poet. *' Oh, it is very obvious." " Pray what may it be?" said Mr. Jenkins, eagerly. " Why, sir, simply this — that your poem is too good : you are a century in advance of the age." Mr. Jenkins drew his hand across his chin, and delivered himself of a " Hem!" He felt that this was praise, certainly ; but, then, what was praise without pudding ? He could not live on his publisher's praise. " Your poem, sir," resumed the bibliopole, " will be admired by posterity ; it will call forth unquaUfied " " But, Mr. Figure," interrupted Mr, Jen- kins, never questioning the soundness of the bibliopole's judgment, nor doubting the truth of his predictions — " but, Mr. Figure, what am I to do in the meantime ? I cannot subsist on the admiration of posterity; I cannot live on prospective praise ; I must have" 68 SALE OF " THE UNIVERSE." ** Is Mr. Figure within ?" inquired a stranger, who had entered the shop, before Mr. Jenkins had completed his sentence. " My name is Figure," answered the biblio- pole. " I have called for the purpose of consult- ing you about the pubhcation of a volume of poems." ^' Mr. Jenkins, would you do me the favour to call upon me any time to-morrow ? " said the bibliopole, addressing himself to the author of " The Universe." The latter, perceiving at once that this was a hint to withdraw, and leave Mr. Figure to victimize another " poet/' responded to tlie appeal, by saying he would call again, and immediately walked himself out of the bibliopole's shop. CHAP. VI. Mr. Jenkins determines for ever to abjure writing poetry, and never again to publish on his own account — "Wishes to become a parliamentary reporter. The result of our hero's literary speculation, was a determination never to indite another line of poetry ; and never again, in the event of his becoming the author of any prose production, to be his own publisher. He farther determined that he would not, for some considerable time, again turn his thoughts to authorship of any kind. The little taste he had already had of that, was sufficient to inspire him with a distaste for it, at least for a season. He saw, judging from the experience he had had, abundant reason to believe, that authorship on his own account, was as likely an expedient as any he could have recourse to, for getting into debt ; but he could not perceive the 70 AT A LOSS WHAT TO DO. most slender probability of its providing him with the means of living. With his little resources not only completely exhausted, but having, by his literary adventure, got himself considerably into debt, it became a matter of urgent and absolute necessity, that he should turn his attention to some occupation which would afford him the means of obtaining a certain livelihood, however humble it might be. The only question was, how or where could he meet with such an occupation ? As for him- self, he was quite bewildered on the subject. He knew not in what direction to turn ; he was utterly at a loss as to what sort of employment he ought to apply himself. He eventually resolved on applying to a Mr. Lovegood (with whom he had accidentally met, from whom he had received much kindness, and of whose friendship even to strangers he had heard a great deal) for his counsel in the matter. He was unwilling to apply to that gentleman, knowing he had no claims on him ; still he was the only individual A VIRTUOUS CHARACTER. 71 in all this vast metropolis, from whom he con- ceived there was a chance of obtaining assist- ance, or even friendly advice. Mr. Lovegood was not only remarkable for his kindness of heart, but was, moreover, himself a literary man — the author of various successful works — which made Joseph calculate still more confi- dently on his sympathy and friendly counsel. Nor was this all : Mr. Lovegood was also a Chris- tian, in the most comprehensive acceptation of the term. He not only constantly sought to perform right actions, but to perform those actions from proper motives. His was the reli- gion of the thought, as well as the word — of the heart, as well as the life. The good he did was not the result of any desire to obtain the ap- plause of men, but was purely the consequence of a conviction that, in doing all he could to be^ nefit his fellow-creatures, he was discharging an obligation imperatively imposed upon him by the Divine command. The inward conscious- ness that he was doing the will, and, conse- 72 A VIRTUOUS CHARACTER. quently, receiving the approbation, of his Cre* ator, was all the reward he ever sought to ob- tain for the performance of acts of kindness and benevolence. The judgment of the world was, in no instance, the rule of his conduct. The tribunal by whose decisions he was always guided, was one which had been set up in his own breast, — the tribunal of conscience, enlight- ened and regulated in all its decisions by the re- vealed will of the Almighty, To his Maker he felt that he was placed under a solemn and abiding responsibility for everything he did, however trivial his actions might often appear in the eyes of others; and he found, as every one else will find who recognises and makes a conscience of adopting the same principles of action, that this was the surest way to avoid un- pleasant circumstances, and to insure his own peace of mind. If men could only be persuaded of the infinite anxiety which one spares himself, by acting according to the rigid rules of right, the most profligate of mankind would become INTERVIEW WITH MR. LOVEGOOD. 73 conscientiously upright in all their transactions with their fellow-men from a feeling of pure selfishness. Mr. Jenkins was received by Mr. Lovegood with the greatest cordiality. He apologised for the liberty he had taken in calling to ask a favour from one on whose friendship he had no claims ; but was told that no apology was needed. Mr. Jenkins then mentioned the posi- tion in which he was placed by the unfortunate result of his literary adventure ; and Mr. Love- good, so far from rebuking him for his folly, inquired whether he could name any other way in which he could act the part of a friend to him. Mr. Jenkins suggested that, if he could pro- cure an engagement on any of the daily papers, either as reporter or stated contributor, he thought he might yet be able to make his way in the world. " An engagement as stated contributor to a daily journal is," remarked Mr. Lovegood, "very VOL. 1, E 74 INTERVIEW WITH MR. LOVEGOOD. rarely to be met with. The situation of a reporter might, probably, with a great deal of exertion and influence, be procured ; but it is a most arduous and harassing situation." " I am well aware of that," replied Joseph, "but I would willingly submit to any amount of labour, and encounter any measure of fatigue, to be put in the way of earning a livelihood for myself." "Do you think," inquired Mr. Lovegood, " you are competent for the situation of a parliamentary reporter? I do not mean in a literary sense, but in reference to the requisite facility of catching and transferring to paper the words which fall from a speaker's lips." " I am aware," answered Joseph, " that great mechanical dexterity, as well as superior literary taste, is necessary to constitute an efficient re- porter ; but I think that, if I possess the latter qualification, I shall not be found wanting in the former." "The situation of a reporter to a daily INTERVIEW WITH MR. LOVEGOOD. 75 paper," observed Mr. Lovegood, "is one of great respectability, though gentlemen of the press do not rank so high in public estimation here as in France. It is one, moreover, which furnishes, perhaps, better opportunities for obtaining an insight into the manifold myste- ries of metropolitan life, than any other that could be named. But that very circumstance only renders it the more perilous in a moral point of view. You have to meet with all sorts of persons, and mix in all descriptions of society ; and, unless one's mind be well fortified with right principles, he is in great danger of being damaged by the contact." Mr. Jenkins remarked, in an unassuming tone, that he trusted his mind and conduct were under the government of moral principles. " Moral principles," remarked Mr. Lovegood, " are very good in themselves ; but they do not constitute a sufficient protection to any one, especially a young man, when surrounded by powerful temptations to stray from virtue's 76 INTERVIEW WITH MU. LOVEGOOD. paths. Thousands of young men yearly bring with them to London irreproachable moral characters, who, in the short space of ten or twelve months, become so thoroughly contami- nated by the corrupt practices of those with whom they associate, as to cease even to do outward homage to virtue, and to glory in the very things which, before they launched on the ocean of London life, they could not have con- templated without horror. Unless that divine grace which is brought to light by the Gospel, reign in the heart, and restrain and regulate the life, there can be no security even for one's moral rectitude, amidst the formidable tempta- tions with which the metropolis abounds." To this Joseph made no reply. He knew nothing, experimentally, of the heaven-born principles of which the other spoke. He was a moral man, but nothing more. " I am intimately acquainted," resumed Mr. Lovegood, "with the editor of one of the morning papers. I will speak to him about INTERVIEW WITH MR. LOVEGOOD. 77 you ; and I have no doubt that, should there be now or soon afterwards, a vacancy on the estab- lishment with which he is connected, he will be happy to give you an opportunity of testing your competency for the situation." Mr. Jenkins heartily thanked him for the many striking proofs he had afforded of his friendship, and took his leave. CHAPTER VII. Is received on trial for the situation named in the previous chapter — Feelings consequent on a first attempt at parlia- mentary reporting — Succeeds in getting a permanent en- gagement. Mr. Lovegood's application to the editor of the morning journal to which he had alluded, was successful. There fortunately happened to be a vacancy in the reporting department of the establishment at the very time he spoke to the editor on the subject; and the result was that, in ten days afterwards, Mr. Jenkins was to obtain a regular engagement, at five guineas per week, as parliamentary reporter, assuming that, after that period, he should be found competent for the office. The result of the trial was, to satisfy the editor that he was fully competent to discharge the duties of the PARLIAMENTARY REPORTING. 79 situation in an efficient manner. Intimation was made to him to that effect, accompanied with the gratifying observation that he might consider his engagement of ^a permanent cha- racter. Those only who have been put on their trial in the gallery assigned in the House of Com- mons to the reporters for the daily press, can form the slightest notion of ^the arduous nature of such a trial. Only imagine a young man — and reporters when commencing their career, are, almost without an exception, young in years — entering a place in which he never was before, if, indeed, he ever were in the House of Com- mons at all; entering it, too, for the special pur- pose of noting down, in order that it may be forth- with transferred into a morning paper, every word which shall fall from the lips of those who shall address the House. Let it be farther re- membered, that he enters this strange place — a place well calculated to overawe and flurry the mind of any person unaccustomed to the scene— 80 PARLIAMENTARY REPORTING. with the painful consciousness resting on his mind, that on the way in which he acquits him- self depends the alternative of his heing either ingloriously rejected, or permanently engaged. Let all this be distinctly and deeply borne in mind, and then say whether there be room for any surprise, that the reporters' gallery of the House of Commons should be entered for the first, or second, or third time, with fear and trembling. Many a young man, of great talents and distinguished scholastic attainments, has en- tered that perilous place and completely failed, from the overpowering sense he entertained of the difficulties of his undertaking, coupled with the knowledge that his destinies for life might very possibly be hanging on the issue of his ad- venture. The most intellectual persons, espe- cially where, with a highly cultivated mind, there is associated — which is frequently the case — an extreme sensitiveness, are the very persons who run the greatest risk of breaking down. The annals of the gallery are replete with PARLIAMENTARY REPORTING. 81 exemplifications of this. Some, indeed, of the most illustrious names in modern literature might be mentioned, as affording illustrations of it in their own persons. Mr. Jenkins, however (as has been already remarked), came triumphantly through the fiery ordeal, and received the reward of a regular en- gagement. E 2 CHAPTER VIII. Duties of a parliamentary reporter — Joseph attends the meet- ings of a political association — Character of the leading speakers — Amusing incident — Close of the public career of the principal demagogues. A PARLIAMENTARY reporter, when not em- ployed in the gallery of either House of Parlia- ment, is liable to be sent to public meetings, to public exhibitions, to the theatres, and to va- rious other places where the proceedings of pub- lic bodies are to be reported, or criticisms to be given on works of art. In this way " the gen- tlemen of the press " — as reporters are usually called — are afforded peculiar facilities for form- ing an acquaintance with eminent men, and for obtaining an early and intimate knowledge of what is going on in the mighty Babel. Mr. Jenkins, in the discharge of his profes- sional duties, had occasion to attend most of the leading political meetings held in London. At ATTENDS POLITICAL MEETINGS. 83 some of those meetings, he was in the habit of witnessing very amusing scenes. One, which was held monthly in the north of London, was parti- cularly prolific of ludicrous incidents and of rich exhibitions of human character. This monthly meeting was held for the purpose of carrying out the schemes of a body of persons calling themselves the " Association of North London Liberals." These political meetings were always very numerously attended. Taking their own word for it, the persons who played the part of orators at these meetings, were all patriots of the first order. They cared not for themselves at all: their solicitudes and anxieties — so unself- ish was their patriotism — were wholly reserved for their country. Its sufierings they wept over ; for its degradation by a tyrannical Government, they deeply blushed; and they were willing any day, should the necessity ever arise, to sub- mit to martyrdom for their principles. Ener- getically and often did one and all of these self- elected redressers of their country's wrongs, 84 MR. FREDERICK FREEMAN. declare their willingness to die, rather than com- promise their principles in the slightest degree, or forego one particle of their indefeasible and inalienable rights. The majority of the usual speakers at these meetings, were a set of despe- rate men, severally affording, in their own persons, one more illustration, in addition to the count- less number previously given, of the truth of Dr. Johnson's remark, that " every scoundrel takes refuge in patriotism.'* There was one exception to the justice of the remark. Mr. Frederick Freeman, in becoming one of the regular speak- ers at the monthly meeting of the North Lon- don Liberal Association, was actuated by no more unworthy motive than that of seeking an opportunity of displaying bis fancied oratorical powers. Of his talents as a public speaker he was exceedingly vain. He considered himself the Demosthenes of the nineteenth century; and cherished the comfortable conviction that, had Fortune been sufficiently considerate towards MR. FREDERICK FREEMAN. 85 him to give him a seat in either branch of the Legislature, he would have immeasurably out- shone the most distinguished of our Lords and Commons. It was, no doubt, very unkind of Fortune not to raise him to the distinction of a legislator, and he never forgave her ladyship, not even in his dying hour. As Mr. Freeman was thus denied the opportunity of shining in what he himself always called his proper sphere, he was compelled, unless he chose to hide his light altogether, to shine in whatever sphere was accessible to him. He preferred the North London Liberal Association to any other arena which was open to him at the time ; and accordingly gave its members, and the mixed multitudes that used to attend its monthly meetings^ the exclusive privilege of listening to his eloquence. Frederick invariably wrote his speeches at full length, and then committed them, verbatim, to memory. On one occasion, when the public mind was worked up to a pitch of extraordi- 86 MR. FREDERICK FREEMAN. nary political excitement, and when the general meeting, appointed to take place in two days afterwards, was consequently expected to be unusually numerous, the committee met to make the necessary preliminary arrangements. Frederick gave sundry hints, too broad and too often repeated to be mistaken, that he was pre- pared to make an oratorical display which would excite no little sensation among the audience, and which would surpass any exhi- bition he had ever before made. He was accordingly solicited by the committee to ad- dress the meeting. He expressed a wish to have the moving of one of the most important of the resolutions to be proposed for its adop- tion. He was asked to make his choice: he chose the third resolution. Mr. Murphy, a clever Irishman and a wag, who was also to take part in the proceedings of the day, ob- served a roll of manuscript peeping out of Frederick's pocket. It at once occurred to him, that this was the crack speech with which AMUSING INCIDENT. 87 Frederick intended to electrify the meeting. Mr. Murphy abstracted the manuscript from Frederick's pocket with a care and dexterity which would have done no discredit to the most experienced pickpocket in the metropolis. It was precisely as he supposed. " He held in his hands" — to use a parliamentary phrase — Mr. Freeman's speech, written in a style of penman- ship, as far as regarded legibiHty, which would have added to the reputation of the most re- nowned copying clerk in London. What was more — all the more important passages, those which Frederick thought were most likely to tell, and consequently to draw forth plaudits from the audience, were marked on the margin with a score, and the word "emphatic;" meaning that they were to be delivered with peculiar emphasis. Mr. Murphy instantly bethought himself of having a joke at Frederick's expense. He resolved to commit the whole of his speech to memory, not neglecting to obey the instruc- tions given on the margin, as to the passages 88 AMUSING INCIDENT. which were to be delivered with the greatest emphasis. Mr. Freeman having previously got every word of his speech by heart, and having a memory so retentive that it never failed him, had no occasion to refer to his written oration during the interval between the preliminary meeting of the committee and the great meet- ing itself ; and, consequently, never missed his manuscript. His only feeling was one of im- patience for the arrival of the hour at which he was to astonish the huge mass of his fellow-men who, there could be no doubt, would be present at the meeting. If it had been in his power, he would have annihilated the intervening period of time. That, however, he felt was not to be done — not even by so great an orator as himself. But, though Time would not quicken his steps to please Frederick, he proceeded at his accustomed pace ; and, accordingly, the great, the important hour of taking the chair, at length arrived. It had been arranged, at the particular request of Mr. Murphy himself AMUSING INCIDENT. 89 (though for what reason he was so particular on that point, no one but himself had any idea), that he should be intrusted with the seconding of the second resolution. Mr. Onward, who had taken the chair amidst deafening acclamations, opened the meeting in a decidedly democratic speech, every sentence of which — ^and sometimes before the sentences were half finished — was lauded to the echo. He concluded, by calling on Mr. Headlong to move the first resolution, which that gentleman did in a manner which did not belie his name. The resolution was appropriately and energetically seconded by a Mr. Leveller, and unanimously passed amidst plaudits, which, when at their height, were calculated to produce a stupifying effect. Then came the moving of the second resolution, which was also of a thoroughly de- mocratic, or rather destructive character.. With the spirit and tendency of this resolution the speech of the mover was in admirable keeping. Never did a resolution and the remarks with 90 AMUSING INCIDENT. which it was introduced, more thoroughly ac- cord together. Then came Mr. Murphy's turn. " Mr. Murphy, gentlemen " (the most worthless and ragged mob that ever congregated for the purpose of doing all in their power to annihilate the most valuable institutions in the country, and to throw society into a state of perfect chaos, are all, while listening to demagogues, unde- niable gentlemen) — " Mr. Murphy, gentlemen," said the Chairman, ''will second the resolu- tion." Mr. Murphy accordingly rose and advanced to the front of the platform, amidst loud cheers. " Now, then," said Mr. Freeman to himself, with infinite self-complacency — - " now, then, it will be my turn next. I hope the fellow (Mr. Murphy) will be short-winded, and not detain the meeting." "Gentlemen," commenced Mr. Murphy, " I rise, with great diffidence, to second the resolution. I exceed- ingly regret that the duty should not have de- volved on some gentleman more competent than myself for its due discharge. I am sorry that AMUSING INCIDENT. 91 my very able and excellent friend, Mr. Free- man, does not now stand in the place which I occupy. He would, I am sure, have done ample justice to it; pouring, in strains of unrivalled eloquence, a flood of light on every aspect which the great principle involved in the resolution can be made to assume." Here Mr. Freeman looked blushingly on the floor of the platform, while the spacious room rang with the plaudits with which the sentiment was received. " My only consolation, gentlemen, is — and I am sure you will receive the announcement with ecstatic delight — my only consolation is, that my worthy friend, Mr. Freeman, is to move the next resolution. (Loud cheers.) I will not, there- fore, deprive you of the pleasure of listening to his spirit-stirring and truly patriotic oratory, by detaining you at any length." To the latter clause of the sentence Mr. Freeman inwardly uttered an ** Amen." " Mr. Chairman, and Gentlemen, it was justly 92 AMUSING INCIDENT. remarked by the celebrated Lord Chatham — one of the few noblemen who have conferred a lustre on the order to which he belonged — it was, I say, once remarked by that distinguished man, that there are times and seasons when a nation are called on, by the most sacred considerations, to present a bold and determined front to the aggressions of tyranny." Loud cheers followed this sentence, in the midst of which Mr. Freeman was observed to look somewhat surprised, as he directed his eye towards the speaker. It struck him as a very extraordinary circumstance, that Mr. Murphy should have commenced his speech in the very words in which he intended beginning his ; but then he remarked, that great minds do some- times exhibit a wonderful coincidence in their trains of thought,, and, consequently, he resolved to think no more about it. " Gentlemen, this is one of those times, this is one of those seasons." Deafening applause greeted the sentiment; AMUSING INCIDENT. 93 during which Mr. Freeman several times moved his chair, gazed with evident astonishment at the speaker, and, indeed, exhibited every con- ceivable sign of surprise and uneasiness. " Yes, gentlemen, the country has now ar- rived at a most terrible crisis; and it is the bounden duty of every Englishman, of every man who has the slightest particle of patriotism in his brea^ — of every man who has a spirit within him, to abhor and to spurn at slavery — of every man who values freedom, and would be free : it is, I say — and would that my voice could reach the ears of the tyrants who seek to enslave us, who would fain grind us beneath the iron hoof of oppression — it is the duty of every Englishman ; it is the duty of every one that now hears me ; it is, gentlemen, your duty, to arise in all the majesty of men' — in all the lofty dignity of those in whose bosoms the flame of a pure and ardent patriotism burns and blazes with an unquench- able energy, to resist the daring encroachments of despotism." 94 AMUSING INCIDENT. Here the immense assemblage simultaneously rose from their seats, took off their hats, and gave expression to their feelings in plaudits which were literally deafening, and which lasted for some minutes. Mr. Freeman now put his hand into his pocket, and, for the first time, missed his manuscript* Unable any longer to restrain himself, he rose, and vociferously ex- claimed, " Stop the speaker. Gentlemen, that is my speech." " Gentlemen," resumed Mr. Murphy, " the time is gone by for mincing matters. The people of this great country must now trust to themselves. (Loud cheers.) Jf the torrent of tyranny is to be stemmed ; if a bulwark is to be erected against the farther progress of despot- ism. Englishmen must " Mr. Freeman, now worked up to a pitch of ungovernable excitement, again rose, and a se- cond time protested, in the most vehement man- ner, that Mr. Murphy was delivering his speech. He was met with loud cries of " Turn him AMUSING INCIDENT. 95 out ;" " Chuck the fellow over the platform ; " " Order, order," &;c. ; when some one who sat beside him, seized him by the tails of the coat, and forcibly reseated him in his chair. Order being eventually restored, Mr. Murphy resumed. " I was proceeding to observe, gentlemen, when so unaccountably interrupted by my friend, Mr. Freeman, that if the despotism which is evidently destined for us by the tyrants in power, is to be averted at all. Englishmen must throw all their minor differences to the winds of hea- ven ; and, forming themselves into one cordial and compact confederacy, promptly afford our oppressors a specimen of what a united and de- termined people can do, when attempts are mak- ing to rob them of their rights, and to despoil them of all that makes life worth possessing." Here there was another burst of tremendous applause, in the midst of which Mr. Freeman started from his seat, and, springing like a tiger at Mr. Murphy, seized him by the breast of the 96 AMUSING INCIDENT. coat. He was torn from the speaker by a per- son on the platform, amidst the universal uproar of the meeting. " Why don't you turn him out at once?" shouted one. " He's mad," ex- claimed another. " Send him to a lunatic asy- lum," cried a third. Order being once more partially restored, Mr. Murphy resumed. " I appeal to you, Mr. Chairman, for protec- tion against these unseemly interruptions. The conduct of Mr. Freeman is most extraordinary. If he will only have patience, it will be his turn next to address the meeting ; and I pledge my- self that I will offer him no interruption." " No, because you have stolen my speech. Your conduct is most" The completion of the sentence was prevented 'by one of the demagogues on the platform sud- denly and unceremoniously clapping his hand on Mr. Freeman's mouth. " I will not, gentlemen, detain you long. I was seeking to impress on your minds, the pa- ramount importance of union, energy, and im- AMUSING INCIDENT. 97 mediate action. It has been remarked by one of the most illustrious philosophers which this or any other country, which this or any other age of the world, ever produced, that a people resolved to maintain their freedom, never can be made slaves. Gentlemen, are you resolved to maintain your freedom V Vociferous shouts of " We are ! we are !" accompanied with deafening cheers, proceeded from all parts of the meeting. Mr. Freeman, however, instead of joining in the universal response to his own patriotic sentiment, audibly groaned. " Gentlemen, I anticipated that answer. I know that there beats not a bosom before me that is not ready to peril his all — that is not prepared to risk his liberty ; ay, and even his life itself, in the boundlessness of his zeal for his country." Here another shout of tremendous applause burst from all parts of the meeting. While its tones were resounding through the piace, Mr. VOL. I. F 98 AMUSING INCIDENT. Freeman, who by this time had been worked up into a paroxysm of passion, which made him look like an infuriated maniac, started from his seat, and was again about to spring at the speaker, but was prevented by those beside him, who, seizing him by the arms, once more drag- ged him back to his seat, in which he was kept by sheer force, during the delivery of the re- mainder of the speech. Mr, Murphy having resumed his seat amidst applause which seemed, for a time, as if it would never end — the reso- lution was put and carried unanimously, amidst the loudest applause. " Gentlemen," said the chairman, " Mr. Freeman will move the next resolution." " I'll do nothing of the kind," observed the latter, suddenly starting to his feet, and eagerly snatching up his hat; " I'll do nothing of the kind. After the injustice done me to-day, I'll never move another resolution, nor make an- other speech in my life." And so saying, he immediately left the place, to the surprise of 99 all present, with the single exception of Mr. Murphy. Mr. Freeman kept his word ; and happy was it for him that he did so. Formerly, when in the habit of spouting democracy, and often something worse at the meetings of the North London Liberal Association, he neglected his business, and was known by all his friends, if not by himself, to be rapidly running to ruin. His fortune began to retrieve as soon as he broke off his connexion with the violent men compos- ing the committee of that Association ; and he eventually became a man of the highest respect- ability in his sphere of life. Very differently did the career of his democratic companions ter- minate. Mr. Onward soon afterwards was obliged to seek an asylum on the Continent, to escape the consequences of certain swindling transactions of the most aggravated character, in which he was deeply implicated. Mr. Headlong was doomed to undergo a long period of impri- sonment for grossly assaulting his wife ; while 100 CLOSE OF THE PUBLIC Mr. Murphy, then only in his thirty-fifth year, was sent across the seas, at the public expense, for forging, to a large amount, the name of a friend to whom he was under the deepest obli- gations for previous services. — There was an- other leading demagogue (a Mr. Bullet) in the Association, of whom no notice has been taken, but to the close of whose political career, some slight reference ought to be made. With his deep moral criminality, there was mingled a dash of the romantic. Mr. Bullet had long, to use the fashionable phraseology of the day, had a young woman under his protection. She was the sister of Mr. Dogget, a brother demagogue, and had been seduced by him on one of those oc- casions on which he and her brother were en- gaged, at the house of the latter, concocting their revolutionary schemes. It so happened that, a few months before the breaking up of the Asso- ciation, a new patriot of the first water, of the name of Braggs, gave in his adhesion to it. As he went the whole length in liberalism, and was CAREER OF A "PATRIOT." 101 a very effective declaimer, he rose at once to the rank of a leading man among the orators ; and he and Mr. Bullet became, in less than a fortnight, inseparable friends. Braggs was a married man, and the father of four children. He surpassed the whole of the declaiming fraternity to which he belonged, in the frequency and seeming earnestness of his advocacy of private morality. He dealt out his invectives, with " liberal" hand, on all those who, professing to be the de- nouncers of public abuses and legislative corrup- tion, could yet indulge, in private, in practices which were severely condemned by those prin- ciples of morality which have existed in all na- tions and ages of the world, and found an abode in every well-regulated breast. One evening he surpassed himself in the vehemence and elo- quence with which he enforced his virtuous views. Next morning he abandoned his wife and family, and decamped with the mistress of his friend and fellow-patriot, Mr. Bullet. The latter gentleman, in the plenitude of his sym- 102 CLOSE OF THE PUBLIC pathy for Mrs. Braggs, went, on the evening of the same day, to condole with that lady, and, at the same time, to express his virtuous indigna- tion at the faithlessness of him on whom he had lavished so much kindness. A fellow-feeling, every one knows, makes us wondrous kind ; and nothing, it is an equally well-ascertained fact, has a more powerful in- fluence in drawing out people's afiections to each other, than a similarity of sufferings or circumstances. Bullet denounced Braggs in terms of unlimited indignation ; and Mrs. Braggs, though no advocate for any gentleman forming an illegitimate intimacy with one of her sex, could not refrain from saying, that the lady who had quitted Mr. Bullet's protec- tion, had acted a very ungrateful and improper part. Mr. Bullet was so pleased with Mrs. Braggs' views on this point, and was, at the same time, so anxious to continue to give " the ill-used woman" all the consolation which his sympathy could afford her, that he re- PATRIOT." 103 peated his visits at intervals much shorter than those of angels' ^dsits to the earth. So much did the two enter into each other's feelings, and so strongly did they sympathize in each other's wrongs, that, in ten days after the elope- ment of the first pair, they followed their ex- ample, leaving Mrs. Braggs' four children to the tender mercies of the parish. By and by, how- ever, Mr. Braggs' means became e?f:hausted, and, with their disappearance, came a return of Miss Dogget's fond affection for Bullet. She wTote to him from Manchester, expressing her deep regret at the steps she had taken, and throwing the whole blame on "the brute (Braggs) who had taken advantage of her sim- plicity." She implored Bullet's forgiveness, though she could never forgive herself; as- suring him that her heart was broken at her folly, and that her eyes had been in a complete ocean ever since she had quitted his (Mr. Bul- let's) roof. Bullet at once forgave her, and entreated her to return to his heart and his 104 CLOSE OF THE PUBLIC arms, both being equally open to receive her. She was in his embraces within forty hours of the receipt of his note ; and, in as many hours thereafter, Mrs. Braggs was turned into the streets, to live if she could, or to die if she could not. " Sophy (Sophia was her name), Sophy, will you ever leave me again ? " said Bullet, looking the lady, with an aspect of ten- derness, in her face. " Never, never — oh, never 1" was the ener- getic response of Miss Dogget, throwing her arms, as she spoke, around Bullet's neck. "You're sure." " Oh 1 do not doubt me. I only wish you would allow me to prove the truth of my asser- tion, and the firmness of my resolution, by making me your lawful wife." " I did intend doing that before your elope- ment with that wretched fellow Braggs," re- marked Mr. Bullet. "Oh ! how I wish you had 1 that unfortunate occurrence would not, in that case, have taken PATRIOT." 105 place, and I should have been spared the misery I have since felt, and now feel." And Miss Dogget, as she spoke, very drama- tically again entwined her arms around Bullet's neck, and thrust her head into his bosom — bathing his waistcoat with her tears, and filling his ears with her sobbing and her sighs. The effect was altogether irresistible. " Sophy," said Bullet, raising her face from his bosom, and looking touchingly at her ; " Sophy, you shall be my lawful wife ; all I have " — and Bul- let was the proprietor of £150 in bank notes, which were lying in his desk, to say nothing of some valuable articles of furniture — " all I have shall be yours." " Oh I James, "sobbed Miss Dogget — James being Bullet's Christian name — "oh! James," and she again gracefully dropped her head on his breast. The latter kept his word. In less than a fortnight Miss Dogget was lawfully and truly Mrs. Bullet. f2 106 CLOSE OF THE PUBLIC A fortnight more passed, and Mr. Bullet had occasion to go, for two days, into the country. He begged "Sophy" to accompany him. It would have been a heaven on earth for her to have done so; but, the moment he had made the proposal, she was seized with " a serious ill- ness," and expressed a wish to retire to her bed. " My dear Sophy," said Mr. Bullet, in great alarm, " I'll postpone going from home, seeing you are so ill." " Oh, no, love, don't do that ; you're going on business, and business, you know, must be attended to. A day's rest will bring me round again." " But I cannot think of leaving you in your present state." " There is no danger, James ; it's only a tem- porary illness. You don't start till to-morrow at ten, and perhaps a night's rest may restore me." The night passed away, Mrs. Bullet enjoying seven consecutive hours' profound repose. She CAREER OF A "PATRIOT." 107 professed herself considerably better, but was, of course, too feeble to accompany him on a distant journey. " Well, my dear," said Mr. Bullet, " there is no help for it; I must, however reluctantly, go by myself. I trust you will be perfectly re- covered by the time I return." " I'm quite sure I shall," returned Mrs. Bul- let, in affectionate accents. The hour for starting arrived ; and Mr. Bul- let, after being affectionately embraced by his wife, quitted home in pursuance of his journey. " Punctual as a lover to the moment sworn," he returned at the time he had promised. He knocked at the door, and, knowing that his wife could always distinguish his knock from that of anybody else, he confidently calcu- lated on her opening the door and welcoming him herself, as it was the first time he had been absent since their marriage. His servant, how- ever, let him in. " How is your mistress ? " in- quired he eagerly, fearing that, as she was not 108 CLOSE OF THE PUBLIC to be seen as he entered the house, she must have had a relapse, "Don't know, sir," answered the servant, in a feeble and faltering tone. " Don't know ! What do you mean ? " "Missus is not in, sir." " Not in at this hour of the morning ! " It was only seven o'clock. " No, sir." " And pray, how long has she been out ?" in- quired Mr. Bullet, in great consternation. " She's been gone these two days, sir." Mr. Bullet was scarcely able to support him- self. His countenance assumed the paleness of death, and a few seconds elapsed before he was able to utter a word. " Do you know where she is gone to ?" was his next question. "No, sir, I don't." " Did she say when she intended to re- turn?" " No, sir, she did not." CAREER OF A "PATRIOT." 109 "Was there anybody with her when she left?" ** Yes, sir," replied the maid, hesitatingly. " A man or woman ? " " A man, sir." " A man ! And do you know who he was ? " "It was Mr. Braggs, sir." Mr. Bullet groaned aloud, and, staggering with difficulty to the sofa in the parlour, sank down in a state of stupefaction. As soon as he had recovered sufficiently to be able to speak, Mary mentioned to him that " missus " had left a letter for him in her bed- room. " Bring it down." It was brought down and read. It intimated that Mrs. Bullet had eloped with Mr. Braggs. The writer farther said, that her object in wish- ing to be married to Mr. Bullet was, that she might have a legal right to plunder him; and that, availing herself of that right, she had taken with her the £150, and all the portable 110 CLOSE OF A "patriot's" CAREER.' articles of any value in the house. She concluded by protesting that she never had the slightest regard for Mr. Bullet, but was devotedly at- tached to Mr. Braggs, with whom she would live and die. CHAPTER IX. Importance of a proper religious education — Joseph's want of it — Consequences of neglecting the outward means of religion— Conversation with Mr. Lovegood on the subject. No man can have lived any time in London, without being struck vv^ith the number of young men vy^ho, though what is called religiously edu- cated, and commendably correct in their moral conduct, lose every sense of religious obligation before they have been many months in the me- tropolis. Their course of retrogression begins by their absenting themselves from a place of worship, and neglecting all the external observ- ances of religion. When once they have pro- ceeded thus far, their downward progress is rapid and inevitable. They rarely stop until they have plunged themselves over head and ears in the mire of moral degradation. 112 PROPER RELIGIOUS EDUCATION, There is no disguising the fact, that such is the history of great numbers who have been carefully instructed, by pious parents, in the distinctive doctrines of the Christian faith. It will, however, be found in the vast majority of such cases, that the parties have not, in early life, been thoroughly grounded in evangelical truth. Their parents have contented themselves with teaching them by mere rote — perfectly satisfied if they could repeat, from memory, the answers given in catechisms and other works for the religious education of the young. There is a radical defect here. Unless an anxious desire be felt, and a constant endeavour made, to impress divine truth on the heart, there is no ground for hoping that the learner will be materially benefitted by it. When he launches on the ocean of life, and has to come into daily contact with men of loose notions on religious subjects, and whose sole rule of action is the readiest and easiest way to gratify the unhallowed propensities of their nature; Joseph's want of it, 113 he will feel that he has nothing to oppose to the antagonist force with which he comes into collision. It was the misfortune of Joseph Jenkins, that his religious education — if, indeed, such educa- tion deserve the name of religious — ^was of the nature to which we have just referred. In Scotland, he had been regular in his attendance in his parish church ; he was an amiable and in- teresting youth ; he possessed several excellent qualities; his moral conduct, indeed, was un- exceptionable. He was, moreover, in a merely- notional or theoretical point of view, intimately conversant with the details of the Christian scheme. His religion, however, was confined to the head; it never, in the remotest degree, aifected his heart. The result was, in his case, what it has been in the case of unnumbered individuals before him. For a season, after coming to London, he was exemplary in his attendance in a place of worship in connexion with the Presbyterian 114 NEGLECTS THE OUTWARD establishment of his native land. There was, too, an external propriety in his moral conduct which it was pleasing to witness. As, however, he began to form acqi^aintances in London, and to feel that he was in a fair way of making a competent livelihood, his attendance in a place of worship became less regular. He began by deeming it enough to go to chapel once a week. In less than a month he thought there would be no harm in occasionally absent- ing himself from it the whole day, provided he felt indisposed to leave his room, or was invited to join some party of pleasure. In a few weeks more he came to the conclusion, that going to a place of worship at all, or making any dis- tinction between Sunday and any other day, were very unnecessary things. His practice kept pace with his newly-adopted notions. He would not, it is true, commit the crime of theft ; but he saw no other objection to getting into debt, which he knew he had no reasonable prospect of ever being able to pay, than the in- MEANS OF RELIGION. 115 convenience of being dunned, and probably being some day consigned to the care of the Marshalsea of the Queen's Bench prison. The progress he made in libertinism, was of the most marked description. He himself was the only person of all who knew him, who was not struck with it ; it excited the surprise even of persons who had themselves been confirmed libertines for a long series of years. Every moment he could spare from professional duties was devoted to the indulgence of his passion for criminal pleasure ; and that passion only grew in strength the more it was fed. The more he con- ceded to it, the greater became its demands. The first portion of his unemployed evenings was spent in the tavern or the theatre ; the remainder in houses of a still more objectionable kind. If a thought of a Supreme Being or a future state, did occasionally obtain an entrance into his mind, not a moment did he lose, after the discovery had been made, in seeking to eject the 116 MR. LOVEGOOD. unwelcome intruder. As yet, he was no specu- lative infidel. He nominally assented to the truths of Christianity ; hence the circumstance of his being so eager to banish all reflections re- specting the being of a God, and the destinies of a world to come. To a person living in guilt and yet unconfirmed in speculative infidelity, there can be nothing so terrible as the thought of the Most High, or of a future state. Joseph knew this from painful experience, limited though the period yet was of his libertine career. Mr. Lovegood had learned, with the deepest regret, the line of conduct Joseph was pursu- ing. The latter had not called on him ever since he had fairly abandoned himself to a course of indulgence in immoral pleasures. It is one of the almost invariable concomitants of guilt, that it leads its victims studiously to shun all in- tercourse with the virtuous persons with whom they were formerly acquainted. Mr. Lovegood had, on learning how he was conducting him- self, repeatedly invited Mr. Jenkins to his house ; INTERVIEW WITH MR. LOVEGOOD. 117 but the latter, under some pretext or other, al- ways declined the invitation. Feeling, as he did, a peculiar interest in the well-being of Jo- seph, and seeing no probability of his being able to prevail upon him to call at his house, Mr. Love- good determined on paying him a morning visit, for the purpose of remonstrating with him on the criminality and inevitable consequences, if persisted in, of his conduct. He found Joseph in bed — as, indeed, he would have done, if, in- stead of calling at eleven in the morning, he had deferred his visit till two o'clock ; for the result of the late hours he now kept, and the habits of indolence he had contracted, was, that he rarely quitted his bed before that hour. Mr. Love- good's presence, caused considerable embarrass- ment to our hero, who would have given any- thing to avoid the interview. He, however, re- ceived his friend and visitor with the respect which his moral worth could not fail to extort from aU who knew him, even from the most abandoned of mankind; and with, besides, a 118 INTERVIEW WITH MR. LOVEGOOD. sense of the deep obligations under which he lay to him. The latter, after a few introduc- tory observations of that general kind which are usually made on one acquaintance meeting with another, stated plainly, but mildly, the purpose of his visit. He expressed the deep con- cern with which he had heard of Joseph's regu- larly absenting himself from a place of worship, utterly neglecting even the external observances of religion ; and resigning himself, without re- straint, to the impulses of those criminal pro- pensities which are inherent in human nature, though not equally powerful in all. He reasoned and remonstrated with him, not only on the moral criminality of the course he was pursuing, but on its certain effects, if persisted in, even as regarded his status in society and the means of his subsistence. He pointed out to him, that the loss of moral character would, sooner or later, be infallibly followed, not only by the loss of his situation, but probably his utter ruin, even in a worldly point of view. Mr. Jenkins listened, INTERVIEW WITH MR. LOVEGOOD. 119 with the greatest attention, to all that his bene- factor said. He felt that every word he uttered was true ; in his own bosom it all met with a ready response. He urged a variety of excuses for himself, ascribing his errors (as he called them) to the circumstance of his being profes- sionally obliged to associate with young men who led him astray. He expressed a grateful sense of the friendship which prompted Mr. Lovegood to point out his " errors," and gave him a solemn assurance, that he would be more careful, for the time to come, as to whom he as- sociated with, and how he acted. CHAPTER X. Becomes an infidel — Causes of infidelity — Wretchedness of an infidel creed — General remarks. Hitherto, Mr. Jenkins might be regarded as a speculative believer in revealed truth, though in his practice trampling on all its most sacred obligations. If any one had expressed or insi- nuated a doubt of his Christianity, he' would have resented it as an unpardonable insult — an unjustifiable reflection on his character. Nay, he would have gone even farther than this ; he would have entered the lists (and on repeated occasions did enter the lists) as a champion for the Christian faith when its truths were assailed in his presence. Nor, in this respect, was he a singular character. Christendom is crowded with such persons. That the parties themselves do not discern the glaring inconsistency of their RELIGIOUS FEELINGS. 121 conduct is only one of the innumerable proofs that are daily furnished, of the moral blindness which sin has produced in the minds of men. Eventually, however, a conviction began to break in on the mind of Mr. Jenkins that, if Christianity were true, the course of conduct which he had latterly pursued, was not such as to warrant a belief, that his would be a happy hereafter. On the contrary, he looked forward to a future state with apprehension and alarm. The result was precisely what might be ex- pected : he began to wish that there were no future state at all. No one can have bestowed any consideration on the operations of his mind, without being cognizant of the fact that, when a man anxiously wishes that any particular position in morals were true, he almost invariably, sooner or later, reasons himself into the conviction that it is true. In all such cases his mind is sealed against the admission of adverse evidence, while its portals are thro'WTi wide open to whatever VOL. I. G 122 CAUSES OF UNBELIEF. arguments can be brought forward in its favour. So it was in the instance of Joseph. He stu- diously abstained from the perusal of any work which had for its object to prove the authenti- city of the Scriptures, and the consequent truth of Christianity; while he eagerly sought for, and carefully read, whatever books had been written in favour of infidelity. With his mind thus filled with the leading objections which have, at various times, been urged against Chris- tianity, while wholly unacquainted with the triumphant answers which have been given to one and all of these objections, it will not oc- casion surprise when the reader is informed, that the wishes of Joseph were eventually con- verted into convictions. He became a spe- culative, as he had before been a practical, rejector of Christianity. There were seasons, it is true, in which the unwelcome suspicion and terrible apprehension, that the Scriptures might after all contain a divine revelation, would ob- trude themselves on his mind. His hours of soli- MISERIES OF INFIDELITY. 123 tude, and particularly of temporary sickness, were especially seasons of this nature. The visit, however, of a worldly acquaintance, or the occupation of his mind with literary or secular matters, usually had the effect of ridding him of such unwelcome reflections, and of causing him to relapse into his infidel notions. Infidelity is a miserable system : no man ever yet found happiness in it. A happy unbeliever is a contradiction. Desolate, indeed, is the soul of him who rejects the revelation which the great Creator has vouchsafed to his creature man. None but an infidel can form any idea of the wretchedness which reigns in an infidel bo- som. Not only have all who have been deli- vered from the dreadful domination of unbe- lief, been forward to bear their testimony to the misery of which it is the parent ; but those, also, who have renounced Christianity, and em- braced an infidel creed, have, even while the victims and slaves of atheism or deism — for there is, in effect, scarcely any difference between the 124 MISERIES OF INFIDELITY. two — been forced to make the admission, that misery and unbelief are inseparably associated together. The experience of Joseph afforded a striking illustration of this. Though never a Christian in the evangelical or legitimate accept- ation of the term, he was (as before remarked) a speculative believer in revelation; in other words, was a Christian in his own estimation. And, while he continued so ; while he was in the habit of attending externally to religious observances, he enjoyed a certain kind and amount of happiness, though falling far short of that kind and that amount of bliss which invariably accompanies the work of regene- ration. How different the state of matters now! His infidel notions not only afforded him no consolation, but plunged him into un- speakable wretchedness. He talked of Chris- tianity as a delusion, but he admitted it was a most delightful delusion. He talked of infidel- ity as a reality, but he confessed, because he felt, that it was a wretched reality. Nor was MISERIES OF INFIDELITY. 125 this all. Though the prevailing impression on his mind was, that Christianity was false, the idea (as has just been observed) would, every now and then, force itself upon him, that there was, at least, a possibility that it might be true ; and if so, where should he be ? In this respect, I am persuaded that Mr. Jenkins was only undergoing a mental process which every infidel is more or less frequently doomed to go through. I feel assured that the man never existed, provided he were acquainted with revelation, whose mind had become so steeled with infideHty, as to be impervious to even an occasional apprehension that, after all, Christianity might be a divine system. Infidels, I know, may, in the spirit of bravado, affirm that they have lived for years in the entire and con- stant disbelief of Christianity. I confess I can- not believe them. I should hke to hear their testimony on the point, when they are stretched on their dying-beds, and are conscious that they stand on the verge of the world to come. No 126 MISGIVINGS OF INFIDELITY. instance, that I am aware of, is on record, of a dying infidel having, in his last moments, gloried in the fact that he was then dying, as he had always lived, in the full conviction that Christi- anity was a system of fraud and falsehood. At all events, Mr. Jenkins could make no such boast. He was often assailed by the ap- prehension that, after all, Christianity might be a revelation from Heaven. To describe the alarm with which the apprehension filled his mind ; to convey an idea of the wretchedness it produced in his breast, were wholly impossible. Those, only, whose minds have been similarly exercised, can form any adequate conception of it. The horror which, on such occasions, took possession of his soul, did not exhibit itself in the same way as the horror of which Bolingbroke was the victim, when he could not endure to be one moment in a dark room by himself ; but it made him spend many a sleepless hour, and caused him, whenever practicable, to shun that solitude which is not only essential to the spiri- WRETCHEDNESS OF INFIDELITY, 127 tual health of the mind, but in which every true believer finds his highest happiness. To be shut up in a room by himself, without books or writ- ing materials, or any other means of occupying his mind or amusing himself, would have been, to Mr. Jenkins, a most terrible doom. His own thoughts, in his moments of sober reflec- tion, he felt constrained to regard as his great- est enemies. Most earnestly would he have then wished that he were a believer in Christianity, were it not that revealed religion annexes the most fearful penalties to the course of conduct which he still continued to pursue. CHAPTER XI. Joseph extends his acquaintance with authors and publishers — A dinner scene — Unpleasant discoveries on the following day. As it was generally known among the literary men of the metropolis, that the majority of the reviews of new books which appeared in the daily journal with which Joseph was connected, proceeded from his pen, authors and publishers became desirous of forming a personal acquaint- ance with him ; knowing that a little attention from them was not likely to render his notices of their works less favourable. With one author, Mr. Norman (who was also a partner in a publishing establishment), Joseph's inti- macy ripened into friendship. Mr. Norman was a person quite to his taste. He was a man A DINNER SCENE. 129 of cultivated mind, pleasing manners, free- thinking opinions, and by no means encum- bered with very rigid notions of morality. He kept a splendid establishment; far more splen- did, indeed, than his means warranted. That, however, was nothing to him. If he could only obtain the needful credit, or, as he himself ex- pressed it, could but *«keep the top a-spinning," he cared not to what extent his creditors might suifer. He was self-willed in his conduct, and fancied, that to assume an independent bearing was to make himself a man of importance. He was in the habit of giving expensive dinners, to which Joseph was almost invariably invited. One day, about five years after the accession of George the Fourth, Mr. Norman determined to give an unusually large and splendid dinner. Being a bachelor, no ladies were present. The party included some of the most celebrated authors of the day, two or three publishers, and an officer of superior rank and high stand- ing in the army. The cloth having been re- g2 130 A DINNER SCENE. moved, a gentleman who sat on the right of Mr. Norman, proposed, as the first toast, the health of the King. ** Oh, the King ! " exclaimed Mr. Nor- man; "give us something else." "Order! order!" shouted several voices at once. A hum of suppressed disapprobation was heard at all parts of the table; while Captain Royston, not knowing, in the confusion of the moment, whom the gentleman was who had uttered the ofiensive exclamation, cried, in stentorian accents, " Turn him out !" "What!" exclaimed Norman, almost choking with rage ; " what ! turn me out of my own house ! Who is the fellow who says he'll turn me out?" "I am the fellow," answered the captain, springing to his feet. " Sir, say that again, and I'll knock your head to atoms." And, as he spoke, and without wait- ing to see whether the captain would repeat the words, he snatched a large crystal bottle full of wine, and was in the act of aiming it at the other A DINNER SCENE. 131 — ^who sat some yards distant from him — when a Mr. Sherwin, who was next to him^ seized his arm, and, with inimitable coolness, while all the rest of the company were worked up to a state of great excitement, said, " Don't you think, Mr. Norman, we had better empty the bottle before you throw it ? " " Very well," responded Mr. Norman, me- chanically, as if scarcely conscious of what he was saying. "Don't you think, Mr. Norman," pursued Mr. Sherwin, after an interval of a few seconds, ** that you had better not throw it at all ? " "Very well," replied the other, in the same mechanical way as before. "Don't you think, Mr. Norman, you had better sit down ? " Mr. Norman sat down. "I'm quite sure it has been a mistake all through," resumed Mr. Sherwin; " Mr. Nor- man meant no disrespect to our beloved King." " Certainly not," said Mr. Norman. 13:^ A DINNER SCENE. " It was a mere thoughtless ejaculation, uttered in the forgetfulness of the moment." Mr. Norman nodded assent. "And I am quite sure," addressing himself to Captain Royston, " the gallant officer does not seriously mean to turn our excellent host out of his own house. It was merely a threat uttered on the impulse of the instant, and in the commendable exuberance of his loyalty." " Hear, hear," cried a dozen voices at once ; but that of the captain was not heard among the number. " I am perfectly sure, captain," resumed Mr. Sherwin, " that you do not now mean anything offensive to Mr. Norman." " Certainly not, Mr. Sherwin. Mr. Norman has handsomely disclaimed intending anything disrespectful to the Sovereign whom I have the honour to serve, and I therefore retract the expression." " Suppose we now drink the Sovereign's health," said Mr. Sherwin. A DINNER SCENE. 133 "With all my heart," responded Mr. Norman. " And I'm quite sure that our worthy host will be delighted to propose as well as drink it." "The King!" shouted Mr. Norman, "up- standing, and three times three ! " Mr. Nor- man sprang to his feet before he had completed the sentence, and all the others simultaneously imitated his example. The toast was drunk amidst deafening plaudits. " I am quite sure," resumed Mr. Sherwin, " I only give expression to the mutual feelings of our worthy host and the gallant officer, when I say that they will be most happy to shake hands, and entirely forget all that has past." " "With infinite pleasure," responded both at once. They advanced and shook hands amidst the gratulations of all present. Harmony was then completely restored, and the remainder of the evening was spent in the most agreeable manner. Mr. Norman had only one partner in the publishing business, and his name was Rogers 134 AN AWKWARD INCIDENT. — a married man, and the father of a family. His notions on moral points were essentially the same as those of Mr. Norman and Joseph. He was in the habit, in his convivial moments, of talking loosely respecting the sacredness of the marriage obligation. Neither was he cele- brated for an undue respect for the principles of honesty in his commercial transactions. On the morning after the festive occasion to which we have alluded, Joseph called at the bibliopolic establishment of Rogers and Norman, for the purpose of seeing the latter. He had not yet arrived. Joseph was surprised at the confused manner of Mr. Rogers; and his sur- prise was heightened when he was not asked, as in similar circumstances he had invariably been before, to sit down till Mr. N. came. Just, however, as Joseph was leaving the place, he met Mr. Norman, and, in compliance with his request, was accompanying him inside the coun- ter, when the latter was accosted by Mr. Rogers, who looked an impersonation of fury. AN AWKWARD INCIDExVT. 135 with " You scoundrel, how dare you, sir, ever look me again in the face ? " ''What's the matter?" inquired Mr. Nor- man, in utter amazement, and with consider- able trepidation. " What's the matter ! Your own conscience, you consummate villain, must, if you have one, tell you what's the matter." " Upon my honour I don't understand you. What can be the meaning of this ? " Here Joseph withdrew, not wishing to be present at so unpleasant an altercation, especi- ally as he had not the remotest idea of what were the circumstances which had led to it. " If, sir, you have any regard for your own life, you will leave the counting-house directly, and never again enter the place where I am." " Mr. Rogers, this unaccountable conduct requires explanation." "Yours, sir, will admit of none, far less of justification." " Your conduct perfectly astounds me." 136 AN AWKWARD INCIDENT. "You ought to be astounded at your own villany." " Pray explain the meaning of all this." " Do you, sir, know whose handwriting that is ? " said Mr. Rogers, showing Mr. Norman his own signature to a letter, but concealing every- thing else. " That is my signature,'* remarked the other. "And perhaps that also is your writing," said Mr. Rogers, holding before Mr. Norman the back of a letter addressed to Mrs. Rogers. Mr. Norman turned as pale as death, and quivered like an aspen leaf. " You consummate " Mr. Rogers, whose eye glared with indigna- tion, and whose whole manner displayed an ungovernable rage, was about to renew his denunciations of the conduct of his partner, when Mr. Merton, a venerable-looking old gen- tleman, remarkable alike for his amiable man- ners and the moral rectitude of his conduct, entered the counting-house. AN AWKWARD INCIDENT. 137 The moment the door opened, Mr. Rogers, without taking the slightest notice of Mr. Merton, hurried out of the place into an ad- joining room. Mr. Merton, being intimate with both parties, was very much surprised at this ; but still he took no notice of it to Mr. Norman. In less than two minutes, the housemaid opened the door, and, advancing with tre- mulous step and flurried manner (caused by the excitement under which Mr. Rogers was labouring) towards Mr. Norman and Mr. Merton, who were both standing beside the desk inside the counter — she put a slip of paper into the hands of the latter ; observing in falter- ing accents, " Mr. Rogers, sir, desired me to give you this." Mr. Merton opened the piece of paper and read as follows, the ink being scarcely dry : — " Your conduct to my wife proves you to be one of the most atrocious scoundrels in exist- ence ; and if you do not quit the premises pre- 138 AN AWKWARD INCIDENT. sently, or if you ever again dare to come into my presence, I solemnly declare that I will blow your brains out." The blood rushed to Mr. Merton's face, and he was seized with a fit of temporary stupefaction as he read this extra- ordinary note. On partially recovering from the confusion vsdth which he had been over- whelmed, he placed the slip of paper in Mr. Norman's hands, observing, " What can be the meaning of this ? My conduct to his wife ! I have never spoken to Mrs. Rogers in my life. In fact, I have not the pleasure of knowing her even by sight." " Oh ! this is intended for 7?ie," groaned Mr. Norman, as he glanced his eyes over the con- tents of the piece of paper ; " this is intended for me ; the maid has given it to you by mis- take." Mr. Merton was scarcely less surprised on hearing this, than when he thought the oppro- brious epithets and alarming threat were in- tended for himself. Still he was ignorant of AN AWKWARD INCIDENT. 139 the precise cause of the quarrel between the bibliopolic partners. " I'll call some other time," remarked Mr. Merton, taking up his hat to quit the place. "Good morning, Mr. Nor- man, for the present." " Good morning," sighed Mr. Norman. Just as Mr. Merton was leaving the place, Joseph Jenkins re-entered, thinking the alter- cation between the two partners would by this time be over. " Ah ! Jenkins, this is a sad business," re- marked Mr. Norman, as the other advanced to the desk. ** Whafs a sad business ? " inquired Joseph, eagerly, "Why, this afiair of Mrs. Rogers and my- self." " I don't at all understand you." " It's a horrible business." " Pray explain." " I may as well ; it cannot be concealed any longer. I have been carrying on an improper 140 AN AWKWARD INCIDENT. intimacy with Mrs. Rogers, and Rogers has found one of my letters to her, in which the fact is admitted." "Ah! that is very awkward, certainly — a very awkward affair." Joseph's notions of morality since his adop- tion of infidel principles did not dictate any stronger expression respecting the enormity of the crime of which his friend had avowed him- self guilty. Of the crime itself, in fact, he felt no abhorrence at all. When he spoke of the awkwardness of the affair, he simply alluded to the social and commercial inconvenience which would probably attend the discovery of the seduction of the wife of his friend's partner. "What's to be done?" inquired Mr. Nor- man. " I think," replied Joseph, " your better way would be to leave the premises immediately, lest Rogers should re-enter, and, in the excite- ment of the moment, make an attempt on your life." AN AWKWARD INCIDENT. 141 Mr. Norman took the hint, instantly left the premises, and hurried to his private residence, kept by a very interesting young woman, his own illegitimate daughter. He had not been ten minutes in the house, when he formed the resolution of eloping with Mrs. Rogers. With that view he wrote a cheque for a balance of £550 belonging to the business, then lying in their banker's hands. He immediately de- spatched a confidential messenger to the city for the purpose of procuring the money. On the arrival of the messenger, however, the an- swer was, " No eifects." This was unaccount- able to Mr. Norman ; as he had himself, on the previous afternoon, added £230 to a former deposit of £320. He leaped into a cab, and hastened to the banker's to obtain an explana- tion of the mystery. The explanation was given. Mr. Rogers, the moment the bank was opened that morning, presented a cheque for, and of course immediately received, the entire amount. On the same day, it was discovered 142 AN AWKWARD INCIDENT. that Miss Norman was enciente. Her elope- ment, the next morning, with Mr. Rogers af- forded a clue to the parentage of the unborn infant. CHAPTER XII. Joseph forms another engagement — Writes leading articles for two papers of opposite politics — An awkward mistake- Its consequences. Very few of those engaged as reporters for the daily journals confine their services to them. They look out, and in almost every instance, with more or less success, for other kinds of literary employment. In no case does the com- mon remark, that one thing leads to another, hold more true than in that of literature. Many of those engaged on the daily press of London, average from two to three guineas per week by working for weekly papers, in addition to their stated salary, which on most of the morning journals is] five guineas per week. Joseph, in the course of a few months after his engage- 144 FORMS A NEW ENGAGEMENT. ment as reporter for the daily journal which has been repeatedly referred to, entered into an arrangement with the proprietor of two weekly papers to furnish for each a leading article, averaging a column in length. For this he was to receive two guineas weekly. Beyond writing the leading articles, he had no concern with, nor influence over, the papers. Arrangements of this nature, though unknown in the provinces, are quite common in London. Neither of the papers had a large circulation, and it was only by transferring the " general intelligence " of the one to the other, and in that way saving the expense of a second composition, that the pro- prietor got them to pay. The two jour- nals, though belonging to the same proprie- tor, were as much opposed in character as it was possible, perhaps, to be. One was tho- roughly democratic, and bore a title — " The Leveller" — which sufficiently indicated the destructive principles it advocated. It weekly launched the most terrible denunciations at the PAPERS OF OPPOSITE POLITICS. 145 devoted heads of the aristocracy, representing them as a confederacy of tyrants, who lived to feed and fatten on the industry of the work- ing classes ; and plainly hinted that their estates would be fair subjects for spoliation. The labouring classes were held up as the true no- bility, because they were a nobility of nature's workmanship. While to the higher classes was ascribed every vice under the sun — and some- times vices which even the sun itself has never witnessed — the masses were represented as pos- sessing not only all the virtues which actually exist, but many which have never existed at all — except in the columns of " The Leveller." The farmers were the objects of that journal's un- ceasing and most virulent vituperation; no week was suffered to elapse without a full share of coarse abuse being heaped on them. The other paper, " The Constitutionalist," took (as already intimated) a directly opposite course. With it the aristocracy were everything; they were the glory, as they had proved the stay, of the VOL. I. H 146 PAPERS OF OPPOSITE POLITICS. land. "Without the higher classes, this country could not exist an instant in its present moral grandeur. The farmers, too, were a most worthy and singularly intelligent body of men. It was a " Farmer's Friend " journal. Agricul- ture was the ]ife-blood of England's prosperity ; trade and manufactures were nothing. The industrial portion of the community were the dregs of English society. The population of all large towns were a body of reckless democrats, having no respect for the rights of property, and undeserving the protection of a constitu- tional Government. To undertake the writing of the leading arti- cles of two papers, of such antagonist views on all the leading questions of the day, was what no honest man could have brought himself to do. Joseph, however, knew not what honesty in po- litics or literature meant. He had no compunc- tious visitings, no scruples of any kind, on the point. He at once accepted the offer, when made to him, to write the leading articles for PAPERS OF OPPOSITE POLITICS. 147 " The Leveller" and "The Constitutionalist." But though untroubled by any reproaches of conscience on the subject, he felt that, if the circumstance of his furnishing the editorial arti- cles to papers whose principles were so tho- roughly antagonist, were to transpire, it would not have the effect of raising his character in the estimation of his friends ; neither could it fail to operate very injuriously to him if, on any future occasion, he should attain distinction — which he fondly hoped he one day would — as a public man. He therefore stipulated with the proprietor of the papers, that his name should be kept a pro- found secret in connexion with the authorship of the articles. He himself, of course, took care not to breathe a whisper of the circumstance to his own acquaintances. All went on smoothly enough for a season. He possessed great readi- ness and versatility in writing on the topics of the day. What was more — lawyer-like, he could appear to great advantage on either side of a question. Before he had been three months 148 PAPERS OF OPPOSITE POLITICS. connected with the papers, the subscribers to each saw, or fancied they saw, a marked im- provement in the "leading" department. The readers of the Tory and agricultural paper were in ecstacies with the contemptuous terms in which the editorial articles spoke of the " un- washed," and the " great manufacturing lords of the large towns;" while the freedom and fearlessness with which " The Leveller" assailed the aristocracy, denounced the corn laws, and exposed Tory corruption of every kind and wherever detected, raised the "unrepresented masses " to the third heaven of happiness. Nor was this all : week after week did " The Con- stitutionalist " reply, with unsparing severity, to the " gross misrepresentations" of " The Le- veller;" while "The Leveller" "demolished with tremendous effect" — so, at least, its readers alleged — the tyrannical positions advanced by " The Constitutionalist." The result was, that the landlords and their tenants toasted, amidst loud plaudits, the " able and unflinching editor PAPERS OF OPPOSITE POLITICS. 149 of * The Constitutionalist,' " at all their public dinners ; while the " unenfranchised millions," never privileged to sit down to a public dinner — rarely, indeed, partaking of a dinner, how- ever frugal, even at home — were obliged to con- tent themselves with passing, amidst deafening acclamations, at their open-air meetings, their most " cordial thanks to the talented editor of ' The Leveller,' for his masterly and untiring advocacy of the interests of the working classes." The natural consequence of all this was, that the circulation of both papers considerably in- creased. And as proprietors of public journals always, or, at least, with very few excep- tions, test the competency of an editor by the effect which his writings have on the circula- tion, the reader will not be unprepared for the information, that the proprietor of " The Con- stitutionalist" and of " The Leveller" congra- tulated himself on the accession of Mr. Jenkins. He had, indeed, resolved, as a practical proof of this, on increasing his remuneration; and the 150 PAPERS OF OPPOSITE POLITICS. only question with him was, whether he ought to double it at once, or content himself with adding half-a-guinea a week to the previous gui- nea for each of the journals, and make the ad- dition of the other half-guinea in two or three months, should the circulation of the papers con- tinue to rise. In the meantime, Saturday, the hour of publication, was approaching. It was Friday evening, and both the papers must ap- pear on the following day. Mr. Jenkins had not a line of leading article written for either journal, and the printers were besieging his apartments — for he wrote at home— for copy. He began to write with energy, and never quitted his seat until he had dashed off a leader for each paper. Somehow or other — he could not tell why — he was, on this occasion, seized with a vehement desire to write something unusually decided in tone and energetic in language. He was pleased with his success; for, on reading over the articles in manuscript, before despatch- ing them to the printer, he thought that, in PAPERS OF OPPOSITE POLITICS. 151 point of boldness and vigour, they surpassed any of his previous effort. He wrote, as was his custom, on the first slip of each article, the name of the journal for which it was intended; and, having sent off the copy to the compositors, he went to bed on remarkably excellent terms with himself. He slept soundly until eight on the following morning, when, it being summer, he rose and started, by coach, for St. Alban's, where he remained imtil Monday afternoon; his duties for the morning journal with which he was connected, then requiring his presence in town. In the hurry of the moment, Joseph had writ- ten the name of the wrong paper at the head of each of the articles — that is, he had assigned the democratic article to " The Constitution- alist," and the violent Tory tirade against liberal principles, to " The Leveller." The mistake was not discovered until the entire impression of each paper had been sold. In the leader of " The Constitutionalist" — the journal which 152 PAPERS OF OPPOSITE POLITICS. had hitherto been so staunch a supporter of ultra-Toryism, the Throne, the aristocracy, the Church, and the agricultural interest, there oc- curred the following passage : — " Toryism and tyranny are synonymous terms. The profligate men now in power would not hesitate a moment in letting loose their demon soldiery on every meeting of the people assembled to petition for the redress of their grievances, were it not that they dread the day of retaliation. They are individually and collectively, a parcel of as great despots as ever trod the earth. We could name among the members of the present Minis- try, men whose bosoms are as destitute of hu- manity as was the bosom of Nero himself. The same may, unfortunately, be said with too much truth, of hundreds of the aristocracy. They are so many titled monsters ; and the day, we trust, is not distant, when every vestige of * the order ' will be swept from off the face not only of this country, but of the earth. They prey on the life- blood of the working classes, whom they regard PAPERS OF OPPOSITE POLITICS. 153 with no more feeling or respect than they do the veriest reptile that crawls on the ground. With regard to the Church, again, we unhesitat- ingly pronounce her to be one of the greatest evils ever inflicted on this or any other country. What are her bishops, but so many drones, whose only idea of duty is, to loll in their car- riages, to wallow in luxury, and to live in regal splendour? And what are her clergy, but a body of worthless men, whose only occupations seem to be fox-hunting, card-playing, dancing at balls, quaffing port at home, and spouting unadulterated Toryism, mixed with the most odious religious cant, at public dinners? Are we surprised at this ? Not in the least. It is just what might be expected from that hideous system of priestcraft, which has been created and nursed by the religious establishment of this country — the worst religious establishment, beyond all comparison, that has ever disgraced or degraded any country on the face of the earth. Never will England know what real dignity is ; h2 154 PAPERS OF OPPOSITE POLITICS. never will she enjoy genuine liberty — never will she attain true intellectual greatness, until her Church establishment is scattered to the winds of heaven, and the entire race of her parsons are utterly extinguished. With regard to the farmers, they, poor miserable men, are more to be pitied than blamed. They are the dupes of the clergy, and the slaves of their landlords. They are as ignorant as their own pigs; ay, and as obstinate, too. They have no more idea of their true interests, than the horned cattle which they feed and fatten for the market; and never will they be enlightened, until the abominable corn laws shall be totally repealed. The extinction of these diabolical imposts would be as much for their benefit — though they are so stupid as not to perceive it — as it would be for the advantage of the rest of the community." Such was one of the passages in the leading article of " The Constitutionalist." The rest of the article was in a similar strain. The follow- ing was the commencing paragraph in the leader PAPERS OF OPPOSITE POLITICS. 155 of "The Leveller:"— "We live in eventful days; the aspect of public affairs is at this moment most portentous. There is a spirit abroad which, if not promptly checked, will, ere many months have elapsed, precipitate this country into a revolution of the most frightful character. That Throne under whose paternal care and powerful protection this country has risen to an unexampled pitch of prosperity, is menaced with destruction. That Church, which has proved the source of infinite blessings to England, is the object of the most deadly hatred of the lower classes ; while her clergy, the most devoted and pure-minded body of men the world ever saw, are loaded with the worst of obloquy. Still more fierce, if that were pos- sible, is the hatred which the working classes, under the tutorship of a band of ruffian dema- gogues, bear to the aristocracy of England, That body of men who are most feelingly alive to the welfare of the lower orders; who are ever foremost in works of benevolence ; in 156 PAPERS OF OPPOSITE POLITICS. whose bosoms, in a word, is centred all that can adorn and dignify human nature — this excellent body of men, not only run the risk of having their estates confiscated, but of personally sharing the frightful fate of the French noblesse. The agricultural interest is threatened with immediate and utter ruin. The farmers are most grossly traduced ; they are held up as being no better informed than the oxen which browse in their fields. In short, the working classes seem to have been of late converted into so many demons in human form. They are, as a body, steeped to the very ears in profligacy. They look forward with fiendish exultation to the contemplated subversion of social order — to the overthrow of the Throne, the destruction of the Church, the annihilation of the aristocracy, and the entire and irremediable ruin of the farmer. There is not a vice under heaven which does not luxuriate in their breasts. They are, in fact, prepared and panting to enact all the atrocities of the French revolution. Need PAPERS OF OPPOSITE POLITICS. 157 we say after this, what course the Government ought to pursue? The duty of Ministers is clear: increase the standing army; repeat, wherever necessary, the course pursued in 1819 at Manchester ; prohibit all open-air meetings ; and arrest and consign to the wholesome silence and solitude of our prison cells, some two or three score of their most noisy and violent demagogues." The reader is left to conceive the effect which the two articles produced on the subscribers to the different papers. At first they were struck dumb with amazement. They read and paused in silence. They could hardly believe the evi- dence of their eyes. And yet there was no resisting that evidence ; there stood the articles, in large bold letters, and in the most prominent part of the papers. What gave the leaders more effect, and added to the surprise and con- fusion of the readers, was the circumstance that, on that particular occasion, there was no other leadiner matter of any kind — though there 158 PAPERS OF OPPOSITE POLITICS. usually was some — in either of the journals. Boundless indignation succeeded a recovery from the first stun of surprise caused by the articles. One and all exclaimed, "We are grossly betrayed." "Villain," "traitor," "apos- tate," &c., were among the epithets most libe- rally applied to Mr. Jenkins. " The Constitu- tionalist " was publicly burnt in all the agricul- tural districts ; and the editor himself would have run a great risk of receiving a similar doom, could he have been as easily laid hold of as his paper. The working classes mobbed the oflice of " The Leveller " on Monday morning ; demolished the windows; and, but for the interposition of the police, would have shivered to pieces the un- oifending printing-press, whence had emanated an article which had so flagrantly insulted and so grossly betrayed them. They uttered the most terrible imprecations on the editor, and were in excellent condition for tearing him to pieces, had he fallen into their hands. During every day of the week, the postman brought PAPERS OF OPPOSITE POLITICS. 159 loads of letters to "the editor," abusing him without measure and without mercy, and inti- mating that the writers had given up the paper. By the time Saturday had arrived, neither " The Constitutionalist" nor "The Leveller" had a score of subscribers left ; and the few " from whom the editor had not heard," were those who had either been from home, or were in too remote a part of the country to be able to stop their paper that week. Next week wit- nessed the extinction of both journals. In life they were united (both belonging to the same proprietor, both issuing from the same press, both published at the same office), and in death they were not divided. CHAPTER XIII. Joseph forms a new literary engagement — Corrupt state of literary criticism in the metropolis — Sketches of the leading literary critics in London. In about two years after his settlement in the metropolis, Joseph obtained an engagement, at three guineas per week, to conduct the literary and dramatic department of " The Investigator," a weekly newspaper of considerable reputation. This brought him into still more frequent and intimate intercourse with authors and pub- lishers, and gave him an insight into matters connected with the literature of the day, of which he had not previously formed the re- motest idea. The corrupt state of literary criticism, whether in newspapers or periodicals, particularly sur- Drised him. Not, indeed, that his notions of LITERARY CRITICISM. 161 morals were of that refined or rigid nature which made him regard with abhorrence the cor- ruption he found pervading almost the whole of such criticism; but that, having suspected no- thing of the kind before, the discovery pos- sessed the interest and freshness which are usually associated with the knowledge of a novelty. He found that such a thing as honest criticism was very rarely to be met with. He knew the leading reviewers in the metropolitan newspapers and magazines, and heard — in con- fidence, of course — from their own lips the motives which dictated their notices of new publications. The reviewer in one journal de- nounced the author of a particular work, be- cause he was a successful writer in a depart- ment of literature in which the reviewer himself had signally failed. Another author and his works were denounced, in unmeasured terms, by the literary critic of another journal, for no other reason than that the author, though entirely self-educated, had, by the force of his 162 CORRUPT STATE OF genius, raised himself to distinction and import- ance in the literary world ; while the reviewer, though he had received all the advantages which a classical education could confer, had never been able, notwithstanding his repeated efforts, to acquire literary renown, or even to extend the knowledge of his name beyond the walls of the establishment in which " The Weekly Luminary" was printed. Other authors and their works, Joseph found to be systematically proscribed by certain critics, because the former would not associate with the latter, when spend- ing their evenings over their glass and cigar in the taverns which they nightly frequented. Many critics ran down particular authors with- out any better reason for doing so, than that other critics had set them the example. A great deal of the hostile criticism which per- vades our modern literature, has its origin or motive — if motive it may be called — in this cir- cumstance. The minor reviewers, in very many instances, follow in the wake of the critics in LITERARY CRITICISM. 163 the more influential journals. They lack the moral courage, however favourably they may, in their consciences, think of the works of a par- ticular author, to adventure a word on his behalf, if the reviewers in some of the leviathan journals have fallen foul of himself or his works. This is a painful fact; it is one which is very degrading to human nature ; but all who are conversant with the literary criticism of the day know that it is a fact. Envy at the success of particular authors, without any intelligible mo- tive for that envy, Joseph found to be, in a great many cases, the cause of the savage fero- city with which many popular writers were assailed. Where the critic has himself at- tempted success, but failed^ in the same walk of literature, one could comprehend the feeling which would dictate a coarse and violent tirade against the productions of the triumphant author; but where an author has not, in any way, come in collision with his reviewer, the unqualified censure which the latter heaps on 164 CORRUPT STATE OF the name and works of the author, is not so easily accounted for. In many instances the hostile criticism was seen by Joseph to have had no other motive than personal dislike to the writer. Our current criticism is very deeply tainted with this unworthy feeling. If an author happen to incur the personal displea- sure of a reviewer, the latter rarely makes a distinction between his works and himself; but, by means of his works, indulges in his vindictive feelings towards himself. There were other authors, again, whom Joseph found to be habitually attacked by certain reviewers for no other reason than that the latter, being on terms of personal intimacy with the former, conceived that they were slighted in not being asked to dinner on particular occasions, when they fancied they ought to have been invited. What made the neglect the more unpardonable was that, according to their own notions on the subject, they had a much better claim to such attentions than certain other persons who re- LITERARY CRITICISM. 165 ceived them. None but those who have had opportunities of observing what takes place behind the curtain in the literary circles of the metropolis, could imagine the extent to which modern criticism is affected by this circum- stance. But it were an endless task to enumerate the various motives which dictate the hostile criti- cism to be met with in the periodical literature of the day. Equally various are the motives which prompt the extravagant praise, amount- ing to positive puffery, which so many books receive. If Joseph did not meet with instances in which praise was literally purchased with money, just as candidates for the representation of corrupt boroughs purchase the votes of pro- fligate electors, innumerable instances were brought to his knowledge of lavish commenda- tion having been insured by personal attentions on the part of the author to the reviewer. Per- sonal friendship with the critic was found to be the secret why many authors were systemati- 166 CORRUPT STATE OF cally praised in particular journals, no matter how poor and worthless their productions. With several of the less influential newspapers and magazines, the way to insure extravagant praise was discovered to be, the sending them an advertisement or two of the work itself. The praise of other journals, again, could be pro- cured on still easier terms. They were satisfied if the compliment were paid them, of sending them a copy of the book immediately on its appearance. But is it to be inferred from all this that, when Joseph first became acquainted with the secrets of metropolitan reviewing, there was no such thing as honest criticism? Far from it. There were several editors whose constant aim it was, after a careful and unbiassed examina- tion of the works submitted to them, to form a just opinion of their merits, and to express that opinion with fairness, and yet with freedom and force. The reviewers in these journals sought to divest their minds of all prejudices and par- LITERARY CRITICISM. 167 tialities, and to speak of the book as impartially as if they had never before heard the name of the author. But the number of such persons, compared with that of the reviewers who were influenced by very different considerations, was very small indeed. Nor is there any material difference between the state of our current literary criticism, and what it was when Mr. Jenkins first became acquainted with it. The same causes are still in active operation to produce dishonest reviews of books. A really unbiassed honest piece of criticism, if found inseveral of our leading journals that could be named, would be a moral rarity worthy of being rescued from the corrupt mass by which it is surrounded, and handed down to posterity as something which merits preservation. A glance at some of the more prominent reviewers of the day, will serve to give a better idea of the real state of literary criticism than any general observations that might be made on the subject. 168 CORRUPT STATE OF First of all, then, there is Mr. Dodsley, of " The Weekly Review." He is an unsuccess- ful author himself, and cannot endure the thought that any other writer should be success- ful. To hear of the literary triumphs of an author — no matter in what department of litera- ture — is gall and wormwood to his soul. And as some authors are always meeting with more or less success, notwithstanding the thousands who are constantly failing in their efforts to emerge from obscurity, he, unhappy man! is kept in a state of perpetual wretchedness. The moment he discovers the slightest symptom of a new author beginning to attract attention, he sets to work, and belabours the rising WTiter without measure and without mercy. The un- fortunate author is assailed with a brisk and unintermitting volley of abusive epithets. He is called coarse, vulgar, dull ; he is without the slightest pretensions to either talent or intelli- gence. He is an upstart in literature, a pre- tender, an impostor, an empiric. Every term. LITERARY CRITICISM. 169 indeed, of a degrading or depreciatory kind, which the critic's vocabulary can furnish, is ap- plied to him. To bring him down again to the level of the common herd of authors, or, if that cannot be done, to prevent his ascending higher on the ladder of fame, is the great object of Mr. Dodsley; and, to the accomplishment of that object, he devotes himself with the zeal of an apostle. If he could only have his own way, there would be no author of distinction at all. Nor does " this sour and surly critic" — for so he is generally called — content himself with his depreciating and vituperative labours in his journal; his tongue is as actively and inces- santly engaged in the ungenerous avocation, as his pen. He never opens his lips in society, when modern literature is the topic, without dis- paraging one or more authors, who have already risen to reputation, or are in a fair way of ra- pidly rising to it. Depreciation of merit is the element in which he lives ; without indulging in it, he could not, indeed, exist at all. It is a VOL. I. I 170 CORRUPT STATE OF necessity of his nature. If he ever^ in the columns of his journal, or in the intercourse of private life, happen to venture a word of praise, the object of his commendation is always some author of no reputation, and who has not even the remotest chance of obtaining any. Such authors, he thinks, he may praise vdth safety ; because nobody else ever has praised them, and never, in all probability, vdll bestow a word of commendation on them. Should any such, how- ever, by accident, rise into distinction, Mr. Dodsley, in utter disregard of his former praise, would be the first to seek to pull them down again. Mr. Pardon is the literary editor of " The Hercules." He is constantly talking of the perfect purity of his criticisms. Take his own word for it, and there is not a more honest critic in Christendom. From the frequency with which he asserts his entire independence of booksellers, authors, and everybody and every- thing else, you would think that he was, were LITERARY CRITICISM. 171 such a thing possible, honest to excess. You are almost sorry to see a reviewer so exceedingly scrupulous about the opinions he delivers re- specting the books that come before him. His honesty, you take it for granted, must, at least, in these days of literary corruption, be a very serious inconvenience to him. It is not enough that he feels a consciousness of his uncorrupted and incorruptible integrity, but you would fancy that his very existence must be wearing away in the intensity of his anxiety, that his critical integrity should, like the character of Caesar's wife, be above suspicion. There is a common proverb, that you have more than reason to doubt a person's possession of that very quality of which he is loudly and constantly boasting. In the case of Mr. Pardon's honesty as a lite- rary critic, you are justified, not only in doubt- ing the existence of the virtue, but in denying it altogether. A more dishonest reviewer is not to be met with. The books of certain authors and certain publishers, are sure to be praised to 172 CORRUPT STATE OF the echo : those of certain other authors and pub- lishers are equally sure to be visited with unquali- fied censure. If he have a sufficient motive for it, a review of a particular book will appear before he has read a page of it ; ay, even before he has seen it. And the review will consist of either extravagant praise or unqualified condemnation, accordingly as he is favourably or unfavourably inclined to the publisher or author. Mr. Sampson, of " The Moonbeam," has a very simple test by which to ascertain, at first sight, the merits of a book. Is it, or is it not, ushered into the world under the bibliopolic auspices of Mr. Drummond ? If it be, then it is all, in point of literary excellence, that the most fastidious taste could desire. If it be brought out by any other publisher, it may be worth a moment's consideration, whether it is to be damned by faint praise, or denounced at once and in plain terms as a " disgrace to the litera- ture of the land." The same author publishing with Mr. Drummond, is a man of very different LITERARY CRITICISM. 17o intellectual calibre, from what he is when the name of Mr. Cramston — Mr. Drummoncl's bibliopoHc rival — graces the lower part of the title-page. A work published by the former, is unquestionably the most talented and extra- ordinary production which has appeared during the present century; and the author himself stands first in the first class of those writers who have cultivated the same department of literature. If brought out by Mr. Cramston, the work, though in " the same department of literature," is " a most trashy and contemptible production," and the writer is the dullest dog that ever put pen to paper. It has happened to Mr. Sampson more than once, to write an elabo- rate review, under a misapprehension as to who the publisher was ; and, on making the disco- very, he has immediately rectified the mistake, by withdrawing the first review, and inditing another in exactly the opposite strain. Mr. Gordon was in the habit of publishing with Mr. Cramston ; and every successive book he 174 CORRUPT STATE OF brought out, was declared to be the vilest stuff ever palmed on an unsuspecting and patient pub- lic. Some time ago, he had reason to change his bibliopole, and made an arrangement with Mr. Drummond for the publication of a new work, in the same department of literature as that to which his previous ones belonged. Mr. Sampson at once had the discernment to per- ceive that the new book was " one of surpass- ing merit, abundantly studded with intellectual gems, and sparkling in every page with the coruscations of a genius of the loftiest order." Mr. Swallow has, for some years, been in- trusted with the review department of " The Inspector," a weekly journal of considerable celebrity and circulation. He was never yet known to notice a book at all, without being actuated by some private consideration. The attentions paid to him by the authors of the various works he notices, or the terms on which he happens to be with the publishers, are the only matters which weigh with him in the LITERARY CRITICISM. 175 opinions he forms, or, rather, expresses of new books ; for his private and public opinions are two very distinct things, and are often in direct antagonism to each other. Any author who can afford, and is disposed to give, a good din- ner, can command Mr. Swallow's unqualified commendation of his work. With him, a " splendid affair," in the shape of a dinner, was never yet known to fail of its effect ; it covers a multitude of literary sins. If there be faults, he not only has no eye to detect them — far less a heart to expose them — ^but he discerns in- numerable beauties where they have no exist- ence. Countless as the sands on the seashore, are the high praises he has penned under the generous sympathies inspired by the after-dinner Champagne or Madeira of authors consuming with anxiety for the fate of their new-born literary offspring. It is certain that he never yet wrote a kindly critique without having pre- viously done ample justice to the creature-com- forts of the writer or publisher. It is doing 176 CORRUPT STATE OF him no more than justice to say, that he has never indited a severe sentiment, or made use of an unkind expression, while the remembrance of the author's or publisher's v^^ell-furnished table has been fresh upon his mind. Only it is to be observed, that one dinner will not suffice for two books, however close on the publication of the first may be the appearance of the second. He reasons with himself — and the reasonable- ness of his notions can, after all, be hardly questioned — that surely every good review deserves a good dinner. Nor is this all: if it so happen, which it does occasionally — and a very recent and very remarkable instance could be adduced — that an author sends Mr. Swallow a portion of his work before the whole has passed through the press, he will readily, if previously invited to dinner, elaborately notice the work as unpublished ; only, when it is com- pleted, he expects, as a matter of right, to be asked to celebrate its pubhcation over another splendid dinner. LITERARY CRITICISM. 177 The second dinner will insure a second no- tice ; but, if there be no second dinner, there will not only be no second notice, but a full retraction of all the previous commendation ; the reason assigned by the reviewer for the change in his estimate of the work being, that he had not then seen it in its completed state. This is so likely to be supposed nothing better than mere invention, that it may be necessary to repeat the assurance already given of an instance of the kind having lately occurred in the case of a popular author and a well-known reviewer. Something similar takes place, if the author bring out a new work without having asked Mr. Swallow to dinner. The latter does not, in such a case, content himself with taking no notice of the book, but abuses it as libe- rally as he praised those previous books of the vnriter which were issued into the world amidst the genial feelings inspired by "three courses and a dessert." " Clayton, my dear fellow," said Mr. Ransom, I 2 178 CORRUPT STATE OF grasping the other eagerly by the hand, as he met him a few days ago in Regent Street ; " Clayton, my dear fellow, that was a most atrocious notice of your new work in the last number of ' The Inspector.' " ** Why, it was rather, certainly." " What in the name of wonder could Swallow have meant ? He has never served you so before." "No, certainly not; I must do him at least that justice." " Surely there must be something private at the bottom of this abominable review." " You're quite right, Ransom; there is." " So, then, you've had some private quarrel." "Oh, no, nothing of the kind; a mere over- sight on my part. I have another work on the eve of its appearance ; it will be all set right again, whenever it is brought out." " I don't understand you," remarked Ransom. " Can I depend on your keeping a secret, if I let you into one ? " LITERARY CRITICISM. 179 " You may." " On your honour ? " " Upon my honour." "You'll never give the slightest hint about what I am going to mention." " Never ; I give you my solemn promise." " Then the whole secret of this vile review of my book is, that I did not ask Swallow to dinner on its publication." " Are you serious ? " inquired Ransom, amazed at what he had heard. " Perfectly so." '* Can it be possible that a person who has the control of the review department of such a journal as ' The Inspector,' could be influenced in his criticism by such unworthy, such thoroughly contemptible considerations ? " " The fact is as I have stated. I know it," answered Clayton. " And do you really believe that Swallow can be so utterly lost to all sense of self-respect, so totally regardless of consistency, that by in- 180 CORRUPT STATE OF viting him to a * feed ' immediately before your next work appears, you can insure a most com- plimentary notice of it ?" "I am certain of it. And what is more, not a favourable notice of the new work only, but a virtual recantation of all the abuse he has heaped on myself and my present work, by the unqualified panegyrics he will then lavish on me as a literary man." " I confess I shall wait with some impatience the publication of your next work. When will it be out ? " " In five or six weeks." Six weeks elapsed, and the work made its appearance. On the day of its publication, Swallow, with several other literary men, par- took of a sumptuous dinner in Mr. Clayton's cottage at Old Brompton. On the Sunday fol- lowing, " The Inspector " devoted five of its columns to a review of the new work, which was eulogised- to the echo ; and Mr. Clayton himself, who but two months before had been LITERARY CRITICISM. 181 represented as an author whose productions were discreditable to modern Hterature, was now held up as one of the most philosophic, elegant, and able writers of the day. Mr. Shepherd's test of literary merit is, the success, or otherwise, of an author's works. He has never yet known a successful author who was not a man of extraordinary genius. On the other hand, he never could discern the slightest traces of talent where the author was obscure. The pages of his ''Literary Miscellany" never yet contained a word of encouragement to a struggling author ; neither, on the other hand, is an instance on record, during the fifteen years he has been a weekly reviewer, in which he has omitted to bestow the most fulsome adulation on authors of celebrity. When a new author appears in the literary vineyard, he maintains an unbroken silence as to his merits, until he sees the tide of popularity setting in either in his favour, or against him. If the former, the panegyrics w^hich Mr. Shepherd heaps upon 182 CORRUPT STATE OF him are nauseating from their extravagance; but, if the probability be that the author is to be unsuccessful, *^ The Literary Miscellany" will always be found among the first and most fre- quent in its efforts to consign the poor fellow to the depths of obscurity. The jackass had a kick to bestow on the dead lion. Mr. Jackson, the editor of the literary department of " The Mercury," has a mode of reviewing which differs from each and all of the modes to which we have been referring. He praises all the books, if they possess any con- siderable marketable value, which are forwarded to him. Aware, however, that, if praise were uniform and constant, it would lose much of its worth, and he himself be charged with being deficient in the critical quality of discrimi- nation, he systematically denounces and abuses all the works which are not transmitted to the office of " The Mercury." Of course it is not necessary to read a work before abusing it. Mr. Jackson takes the title of the book from LITERARY CRITICISM. 183 the advertisements in the daily press, and then appends to it a string of vituperative epithets of the most general kind, such as the following : — " This most illiterate author and contemptible production ; " "a parcel of the greatest rubbish that ever issued from the press;" "a dull, stupid, ignorant author;" "a writer who is a disgrace to the literature of the age," &c. From these "illustrations" of the present state of our literary criticism — and they are, we ought to repeat, no imaginary cases — it will be seen that the " opinions of the press" on a new work, whether favourable or adverse, are, in the main, very little to be depended on. The public, happily, are beginning to make this dis- covery. Time was when authors who were deficient in moral courage, were to be written down by hostile reviewers, and when trashy productions could be puffed into something like celebrity by critics whose praise had been virtually purchased by the pudding and pies of the author; but, fortunately, this state of 184 LITERARY CRITICISM. things no longer exists. Every month furnishes the most unanswerable proof, that neither books nor authors of merit are to be written down by the attacks of hostile reviewers; while every week affords one or more confirmations of the position, that a worthless book is no longer to be lauded into fame. CHAPTER XIV. Farther observations on the corrupt state of literary criticism in the metropolis — Authors of title or standing in society — The way in which they contrive to get favourable notices of their books — Literary coteries — General observations. In the preceding chapter various illustrations have been given of the corrupt state of our literary criticism. References have also been made to the reasons which induce reviewers to endeavour to run down certain authors. The uninitiated in these matters will naturally ask, " How happens it that, not in one or two jour- nals only, but in the great majority of our me- tropolitan publications, every book brought out by particular authors receives the most unquali- fied commendation, however great and manifold may be its blemishes ? " No one, who knows anything of the existing state of criticism in 186 AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. London, can be at a loss for an answer to the question. The explanation of the mystery is to be found in the fact, that the authors referred to, who will be found, in almost every case, to be per- sons of title or distinction, indirectly purchase the praise by the attentions they show to the reviewers. A few examples will set the matter in a clearer light than any general observations Tdiich could be put into the mouth of Mr. Jen- kins, or which might be made by the author of these volumes. Among the houses to which Joseph was oc- casionally invited to dinner, after it had become generally known that he was the principal re- viewer in a journal of established reputation and influence, was that of Lady Dartmoor. She gave sumptuous entertainments; and, as her ladyship had the reputation of being a great beauty as well as a popular authoress, the various reviewers invited to her parties were so gratified AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. 187 with the compKment paid them, that they felt as if they could not sufficiently praise her works in return. On the second occasion on which he had been present at one of Lady Dartmoor's " splendid parties" — for so they were called by general consent — he missed several acquaintances con- nected with the review department of the metro- politan press, whom he had seen at the first dinner. He inquired of Mr. Monteith, one of the guests on both occasions, the reason of this. " Ah, I see," remarked the other, " that you are not yet acquainted with the way in which her ladyship manages these matters." "My question," said Joseph, "is a virtual admission of my ignorance on the point. How does she manage such matters ? " " Very adroitly and very systematically," replied the other. " Of course, Jenkins," he added, " I speak in confidence." " I understand that perfectly ; and what you say shall never escape my lips." 188 AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. " Well, then, Lady Dartmoor makes a point of getting acquainted with every reviewer of any note in London, and keeps a list of their names, divided into three classes. The first class in- cludes the names of those who have the control of the review department of the leading journals. In the second class are to be found the names of reviewers connected with respectable, but not first-rate, newspapers or periodicals ; while, un- der the third head are written the names of persons who do, as she herself remarks, ^the review department of journals of limited circu- lation, and still more limited influence.' " "But," interrupted Joseph, "that does not explain why some of those reviewers I met with at Lady Dartmoor's first party were absent from the second." " I should," answered the other, " have come to that in a moment or two, had you allowed me to go on. For some years past she has, on an average, brought out three books annually. Now the regulation sKe has laid down for her AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. 189 guidance as to the frequency or infrequency with which to issue her invitations is this : The first class are invariably invited to dinner about a fortnight before, and about a week after, the publication of a new work. When sending the preliminary invitation, no reference is made to any new forthcoming production ; but the ques- tion as to when she intends to bring out another work, is naturally put by some of her literary guests in the course of the evening's conversa- tion, and she is thus led, as it were accidentally, to mention that she is on the eve of re-appearing in the character of authoress. On each suc- cessive occasion she expresses her apprehen- sions that her book will be a failure. Of course, all present dissent from her conclusions. She is told to banish her fears, and to assure herself of her wonted success. It is unnecessary to add that, putting out of view the genial influence of a magnificent dinner, the fact of all present having virtually staked their literary discernment on the merits of a book they have not seen, and even 190 AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. of whose nature and title they are probably ig- norant, feel under a moral obligation to back up their opinion, and to endeavour to bring about the fulfilment of their predictions, by lavishing the most liberal commendations on the work, when it makes its appearance. But, to guard against the possibility of any mistake in the matter — to make assurance doubly sure of a favourable notice — a copy of the book, the mo- ment it is out, is sent to each of the reviewers who were at her table, accompanied with a plea- santly-penned note, inviting him to dine with her ladyship on an early day, which, of course, she duly names." " He certainly," remarked our hero, " would be an ill-conditioned reviewer who could say aught against a book which was forwarded to him under such circumstances." " Ay, and destitute would he also be of gratitude and gallantry did he not exhaust his vocabulary of praise in bringing it before the public. Would he not ?" AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. 191 " He certainly would." " And now," resumed Mr. Monteith, after a moment's pause ; " and now, with regard to the second class of reviewers on her ladyship's list. Their notices of her works being of subordinate importance, they only receive one invitation — namely, the one which precedes the publication of her ladyship's book. This will explain why several of those who were present on the first occasion you were here, which was a dinner before publication, were not on the second. Does it not ?" " It certainly does. The names of the absen- tees, in other words, are to be found in the list of class two." " Precisely so." "Well, this is certainly something new to me. I never heard a whisper of anything of the kind before. But how does her ladyship deal with the third class of reviewers on her list?" "Oh, she finds it a very easy matter to 192 AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. manage them. They are generally men who are so proud at the circumstance of being asked to the house of a lady of title and celebrity at all, that they will be contented with any- thing. She is well aware of this, and con- sequently does not ask them to dinner or sup- per, but deems it enough if she invite them to a converzationne, at which coiFee and a few glasses of wine, and sandwiches, constitute the only traces of festivity which they can discern in her ladyship's house." " And they invariably praise her productions to the echo, in consideration of this little act of attention." " They do, except in the few instances in which one or two of their number turn refrac^ tory, and are offended at the fancied slight put upon them by not inviting them in the same way, and on the same occasions, as the others." "So then, after all," pursued Joseph, " Lady Dartmoor's books are sometimes 'cut up.'" "Oh! no; hardly ever. The reviewers in AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. 193 question content themselves with passing by her works without any notice at all." But Lady Dartmoor is not the only popular authoress in the metropolis who has a coterie of persons calling themselves literary men always at her beck, and who, in their zeal to serve her, do not wait her bidding, but anticipate her wishes. Lady Carrington, another authoress of distinction, is equally happy in her literary acquaintances. She, however, has a method of her own of "managing" her men; a method which is, undoubtedly, less expensive than that of Lady Dartmoor, and yet is, if her ladyship's own testimony may be credited, fully as effi- cient. She has not only repeatedly heaped the warmest eulogiums on three or four of the lead- ing London reviewers, in private conversation, when she knew her commendations could not fail to be conveyed to them; but she has, by way of parenthesis, introduced their names, and the names of their respective journals, into one of her works, amidst a profusion of praise which VOL. I. K 194 AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. well might put the most gifted to the blush. She reasons, and reasons very justly, that, if she can only secure the unqualified commendation of the leviathan reviewers, the *^ small fry," as she calls them, of the minor journals will, as a matter of course, follow in their wake. Lady Carrington has also her literary dinners, but they are neither so frequent nor so sumptuous as those of Lady Dartmoor. She not only does not, like the latter, celebrate the publication of every new work of hers by two dinners — one im- mediately before, and another immediately after, the birth of the book ; but ushers all her minor productions into existence without the pomp and circumstance of a dinner at all ; while the pub- lication of her larger or more important books is honoured with only one dinner to her literary friends. The soundness of her theory, that to have the same extravagant praise bestowed on a trifling work as on an important three-volume production, is only to deprive the commenda- tion of the latter of its effect — has been abun- AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. 195 dantly confirmed by the best of all proofs — namely, experience. And, as she issues her cards of invitation to literary dinners less fre- quently than her rival, Lady Dartmoor, so she has, on such occasions, a much more limited number of guests. The literary friends at her dinner-parties are usually limited to seven, and almost always consist of the same persons. When Mr. Jenkins' name was first put on her ladyship's list, he made an eighth reviewer. On the first occasion on which he dined at Lady Carrington's, there were seven literary men, including himself. He was personally ac- quainted with three of the reviewers ; but her ladyship's other three literary guests were wholly unknown to him. Anxious to ascertain who or what they were, more especially as in the conduct of all there was something which struck him as peculiar, he next morning called on Mr. Bridget, one of the three whom he knew, for the purpose of learning from him some particulars respecting them. 196 AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. " Who was that large-featured person, with swarthy complexion, and black curly hair, named Manson, who sat last night on your right, at Lady Carrington's party ? " "Oh, he is a man whose means and mode of. life are a mystery. No one knows where or how he contrives to procure a single sovereign ; for, while he confessedly has no fixed income, he is not known ever to have earned a sixpence by his literary labours." "If not a literary man," inquired Joseph, " what induces her ladyship to ask him to her literary parties ? " " Because she finds him exceedingly useful." "In what way ? I don't exactly see how he can be of any service to her, as an authoress." "Though not," replied Mr. Bridget, "a literary man, in the sense in which the phrase is usually understood — that is, as the author of one or more works, or articles in periodicals, he is a literary man in this sense, that he has AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. 197 read a great deal, is very intelligent, and, though not known to have written anything, acquits himself in such a manner in conversation as to leave the impression that he is a man of very superior talents." " But still I cannot comprehend," remarked Joseph, " in what way he can be of service to Lady Carrington." " In this way," replied Mr. Bridget, " that, whenever her ladyship brings out a new work, he employs himself for several consecutive days, to the exclusion of everything else, in lauding it to the third heaven. Wherever he goes, and in whatever company he mingles, he introduces her ladyship's new work, and lavishes the highest encomiums on it. He thus performs the part of a locomotive advertiser; at once raising her reputation, and creating a great de- mand for the book at the circulating libraries." " And has Lady Carrington a due sense of the obligation under which she lies to Mr. Manson?" 198 AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. " She is quite aware of the service he renders her ; and yet she speaks of him in very disre- spectful terms. * He is,' she says, ' shockingly vulgar, but very useful, and therefore he must be tolerated,^ " " Does she really speak in that way of a person who thus almost degrades himself in his zeal to serve her ? " " She does, and in doing so is by no means singular. I could mention at least a dozen authors, male and female, moving in the better circles of society, who privately speak in the same or similar terms of reviewers; who, be- cause they are asked to their parties, commit high treason against literature, by heaping the most fulsome adulation on every book they bring out, no matter how worthless it may be. * I observed at your last party, Mr. Forbes, the literary editor of " The Independent," ' said Mr. Bosworth, one evening, to Mrs. Cavendish, the fashionable authoress of ' The Shrew,' and other three-volume works. ' Oh yes,' she replied, ' he's AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. 199 a horrid brute ; I detest the very sight of him ; but what can I do ? To invite him immediately before the publication of a new work, is the only way of insuring a favourable notice of it ; and, you know, that is an object.* And yet," continued Mr. Bridget, "though Mrs. Caven- dish thus detests Mr. Forbes, and feels as if her splendid drawing-room were polluted by his presence, she lavishes upon him the greatest attentions when there. And so it is in most of the other cases where literary men are invited to the dinners and * at homes ' of the fashion- able authors in the metropolis ; they are looked upon as mere tools, that may be used whenever required. The titled ^nd the rich entertain very little real respect, very little sincere regard for literary men ; as is proved by the fact, that the moment the influence of the latter in the literary world is gone, the doors of these persons are closed against them. Nor is this all. They will even scarcely deign to give them a nod of recognition as they whirl past 200 AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. them in their carriages in the streets. It is much to be regretted that literary men — those of them, especially, who conduct the review departments of the public journals — have not more respect for themselves ; if they had, they would command much more of the respect of those above them than is at present accorded to them." Joseph, comparatively limited though his acquaintance was with the ways of the fashion- able world, was forcibly struck with the obser- vations of Mr. Bridget, and he resolved that they should not be lost upon him. When Mr. Bridget had concluded his obser- vations, Joseph remarked that there was another who sat opposite him, whose name he could not remember. " Pray," he added, " who or what is he ? " " Oh, that young man," remarked Mr. Bridget, " is a Mr. Pufiwell." "Is he of any sensible service to her lady- ship, in her capacity of author ? " AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. 201 " Oh, very great indeed ! " " In what way ? " " Though not himself immediately connected with any publication, he is on intimate terms with several editors, and they occasionally — indeed, I may say frequently — ^insert gratui- tously paragraphs from his pen respecting her new works." *^ You don't mean reviews ! " interrupted Joseph. " Oh, no, short paragraphs inserted among the miscellaneous intelKgence of the paper. In length they rarely exceed eight or ten lines, but they are well adapted to tell." " What may be their nature ? " " They are a good deal varied. If, for ex- ample, the book, soon after its appearance, be exciting some attention, a paragraph forthwith appears in the papers to whose columns he has access, to the effect that Lady Carrington's new work, * the best that she has produced,' is exciting a very great sensation in the literary k2 ^02 AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. and fashionable circles of the metropolis ; or, if it be meeting with a tolerable sale, a para- graph appears representing the demand as very- great; and the paragraph is so ingeniously or adroitly worded, that the public go away with the impression that there is something so ex- traordinary in the interest or the merit of the work, that the editor has deemed the circum- stance worthy of mention among the news of the day. The effect of this paragraph is, to excite that very interest in the work which it professes to record as being already felt." " That is to me a new way," observed Jo- seph, " of puiBng a book." " And, you might have added, a most effec- tual one." " Has Mr. Puffwell ever written anything himself?" " Never ; and yet he contrives to puff him- self off, by an ingenious device, as a literary man." '* What is the ingenious device?" AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. 20S " Whenever an anonymous work, newly pub- lished, begins to attract attention and acquire popularity, and conjectures are hazarded as to the authorship, he sends a note to each of the metropolitan papers, to the effect, that, as he has been very generally named as the author of the particular work, he hopes the editor will permit him to mention that he is not the author." " Does he do this without any one having represented him as the author?" inquired Joseph, with no inconsiderable surprise. " He does ; and therein consists the cool as- surance of the thing. Nobody who knows him would ever suspect him of the authorship of ani/ work of merit, for he is a man of no talent ; and of course the public generally, to whom his name is unknown, would never think of affili- ating any unfathered production on him. By this singular expedient, he has contrived to ob- tain a sort of reputation for literary talent and acquirements ; for those who see his disclaimer 204 AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. of the authorship of a work of merit, naturally infer that, if he were not capable of producing such a work, it would not be ascribed to him. He published a letter, a few weeks before Sir Walter Scott confessed himself to be the author of the ' Waverly Novels,' to the effect, that, as he had been repeatedly pointed at as the author of the * Northern Fictions,' he thought it would be unjust to the real author of those splendid productions, were he not to state, in the most unequivocal terms, that he was not only not the author, but that he had had no hand whatever in their production ! Shortly afterwards, Mr. Puff- well energetically disclaimed the authorship of ' Almack's ' — a work which excited a great deal of interest, ten or eleven years ago, and respect- ing the authorship of which there was a great deal of guessing at the time. And had he been a contemporary of Junius, he would have pub- lished a very decided disclaimer of the author- ship of the celebrated letters which appeared under that name." AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. 205 " Oh, I remember," remarked Joseph, after hearing Mr. Bridget's curious statement — " oh, I remember having, on several occasions, seen the name of PuiFwell attached to disclaimers, in the public journals, of the authorship of various works." " Then that is the person you saw last night at Lady Carrington's." " There was a third," pursued Joseph, " wholly unknown to me, who sat at your left. Who is he?" " That is a Mr. Warden ; one of the most conceited persons in London. He has never written a line in his life, except in the shape of an occasional newspaper paragraph ; and yet he is unceasingly engaged in decrying the works of successful authors, and saying how much better he himself could have written on the same subject." " I suspect," observed Joseph, " he is not singular in that respect. There are hundreds in London, calling themselves literary men, who 206 AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. have not written, nor are capable of writing, a page of passable matter on any subject, whose sole occupation is, to decry and depre- ciate the works of others." " Very true," remarked Mr. Bridget ; " but this Mr. Warden has the happy knack of per- suading many of his literary friends that he is actually a genius of the first order. And thus, though no author at all, and wholly incapable of writing a passable page on any subject, he not only himself enjoys the delightful delusion, that he is a literary man of the highest talents, but receives from others the homage which is due to the most distinguished merit." " He is certainly a lucky man," remarked Joseph, " thus to enjoy a first-rate literary reputation, though wholly destitute of all title to it." " He is, indeed," responded Mr. Bridget ; " especially when there are so many instances on record, in which the authors of works of the very highest order of merit have never been AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. 207 fortunate enough to emerge from obscurity, or even to have their private admirers." " And such are some of the leading persons connected with the review departments of the metropolitan press," observed Joseph. " Yes ; and they would resent it as an insult, were you to throw out the slightest imputation on their honesty or independence." " And the way you have described is that in which we are to account for the extravagant and invariable praise bestowed on the books of certain authors." " It is." What a painful picture does it present of the alleged manly independence and incorrup- tible integrity of which we hear so much in connexion with the literary criticism of the metropolis ! There is scarcely such a thing as fairness, impartiality, or honesty, in literary criticism. The public are beginning to discern this. They have, in so many instances, met with books which, though most extravagantly praised. 208 AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. were the greatest trash that was ever penned ; and, on the other hand, with meritorious works which had been loaded with the coarsest abuse, that they have all but ceased to repose any con- fidence in the opinion of new books expressed by the public press. Much has been said of late respecting the bribery and corruption which prevailed at the last general election ; and legislative measures are to be taken with the view of preventing a recurrence of the evils. Bribery and corruption are scarcely less pre- valent in the world of literary criticism, than in the world of politics ; only that the bribery in the case of literature, instead of being practised through means of money, is chiefly effected through means of what, in the political world, is called "treating." In the case of literary criticism, Parliament can pass no act to put an end to the corruption which exists. It is a thing which cannot be reached — an evil which cannot be remedied by the Legislature. It is only by a fearless exposure of the great literary AUTHORS AND REVIEWERS. 209 nuisance, that any one can hope to abate it. The evil is lamented by many authors, but they want the moral courage to grapple with it. This is to be regretted. Were two or three influen- tial writers to expose to the light of day, each in his own way, the secret springs of our metro- politan criticism, they would soon put an end to the existing corruption; and thus at once do an essential service to modem literature, and to the cause of morals. But should the more honest class of authors, though mourning over the corrupt and degraded state of our literary criticism, continue to shrink from what they are aware must be the unpleasant consequences of entering the lists with dishonest reviewers — there only remains the satisfaction of hoping that the evil will eventually reach such a height as to insure its own cure. CHAPTER XV. Mr. Lovegood brings out a new work — Conversation between him and Joseph on reviewing books in the periodicals of the day. About this time Mr. Lovegood, of whom we have for a season lost sight, brought out a new work ; and Joseph, who, notwithstanding the numerous defects in his character, possessed, in no ordinary degree, the redeeming quality of gratitude, was gratified with the circumstance, because he thought it would afibrd him an opportunity of serving him. Joseph called one morning on Mr. Lovegood, and, after an interchange of the usual courtesies, intimated that he would be happy to publish in AUTHORS AND THEIR WORKS. 211 the weekly journal with which he was connected, any notice of Mr, Lovegood's new book which might be sent him. "A notice to be sent you!" remarked Mr. Lovegood, with manifest surprise. ** Yes ; any notice which you yourself would Hke to appear." " You don't mean that I should write it my- self!" "Where would be the harm," answered Joseph, " if you did ? It's often done." " What ! authors review their own works ? " "Even so." " I had hardly believed such a thing was pos- sible," observed Mr. Lovegood. "I would rather a thousand times over, that no line should ever appear in the shape of a notice of any work of mine, and that a copy should never be sold, than pen one syllable in its favour." **But could you not get some friend, who has more time on his hands than I can spare, to 212: AUTHORS AND THEIR WORKS. write an elaborate and commendatory notice of your work ? '* " To ask a friend to praise it," replied Mr. Lovegood, " would be the next most unworthy thing to praising it myself. I have never, on any occasion, bespoken a word of commendation for any of my productions, though my intimacy with various reviewers would have insured a ready compliance with my wishes." "I think," rejoined Joseph, "that you are much too scrupulous, considering the frequency with which such things are done." "The conduct of others," observed Mr. Lovegood, " must not be the rule of mine. If they do discreditable actions, that would be no justification for my doing them. The question with every honest and honourable man will be, whether an action be in itself right or wrong. To ask another to praise one's own work, is practically the same, if the book be praised by the party to whom the request was preferred, as if the commendatory notice had proceeded AUTHORS AND THEIR WORKS. 213 from the author's own pen. I should have no hesitation in asking a reviewer to notice any work of mine ; but I should feel bound, from a regard to my own peace of mind, and in order to preserve my own self-respect, to accompany the request with a distinct intimation, that I wished the work to be noticed in exactly the same way as if the reviewer did not know the author. On that principle I have ever acted, and hope ever shall act." " Then," remarked Joseph, " I will write a notice of your work myself; but, before insert- ing it, will send you the manuscript for your inspection. If you see anything in it you don't like, you can put your pen through it." " I beg you will not send me the manuscript ; for, to strike out censure, should there be any, is only a degree less unworthy than inditing praise. I have, on several occasions, had manuscript notices of former works unexpect- edly sent me, accompanied with a request that I would cancel whatever passages or sentences 214 AUTHORS AND THEIR WORKS. I might dislike ; but in no instance have I ever altered a word — unless, indeed, the notice con- tained some glaring error as to fact, -or some- thing which might be personally offensive, and had no connexion, one way or other, with the merits or demerits of the work." " I think you carry your conscientious scru- ples too far," suggested Joseph. " I can only say that I think differently. At all events, it is to me the source of a pleasure which I would not part with for any earthly consideration, that, whatever may be my status in the literary world, I have resorted to no unworthy means to obtain it. To me the highest literary reputation ever enjoyed would possess no attractions, nor afford the slightest satisfaction, if my own mind told me T had been resorting, directly or indirectly, to any such expedients as those to which I have referred." "Well, then, we will say no more on the subject," remarked Joseph. " Of course you have seen Mr. Calderwood's new work." AUTHORS AND THEIR WORKS. 215 " I have." "And read it through?" " And read it through." *'As he has been in the habit of attacking and calumniating you as a literary man for several years past, the publication of a book of his will afford you an excellent opportunity of retaliating. Send me a review of his work, and apply the tomahawk to himself and his book without mercy. I will insert anything you send, however severe." " That I cannot and will not do," replied Mr. Lovegood. "Were I to treat Mr. Calderwood in the way you suggest, it would only be practising myself the very thing which you, and I, and others, have condemned in him." " But he is the aggressor. You would only be returning the blow which he has already struck." " That consideration would not alter the jus- tice of the case. No provocation, however great, will ever justify a man in doing what 216 AUTHORS AND THEIR WORKS. is morally wrong. My rule throughout my literary life has been, to endeavour to divest my mind of all prejudices and of all vindictive feehngs, when having occasion, either in society or through the press, to speak of the works of those who have been in the habit of attacking myself or loading my books with abuse. To that line of literary conduct I shall, I trust, adhere to the last. Had I been disposed to act on a contrary principle, I could, in innumerable instances, have retaliated with no inconsiderable effect (without the parties themselves ever dis- covering who was their assailant) on authors who have been the most virulent and most frequent in their attacks on my productions. It is to me the source of a proud satisfaction, that in no one instance have I allowed any personal dislikes, any sense of injustice done to myself, to influence my criticisms of the works of others. If, indeed, I have had any feeling either way, it has been that of erring on the other side ; in other words, of speaking more AUTHORS AND THEIR WORKS. 217 favourably of their works than they really de- served. And of this I feel assured, that the frame of mind which dictates such a course, is immeasurably happier than that which prompts a reviewer to treat an author and his work with virulent abuse. An ill-natured critic is neces- sarily a miserable man: it is needless to add, that the converse of the proposition is equally true. The good-natured and generous-minded man is necessarily happy. Were our cynical critics aware of this truth, they would covet a kindly disposition and generosity of feeling from considerations of pure selfishness. There is a physiognomy in print as well as in the human countenance. The only wonder is, that some second Lavater has not, before now, specially directed the attention of the public to the fact. An appeal may cafely be made to those who know, in the private walks of life, the leading critics of the day, whether their temper and disposition be not, at home and in the social circle, fairly set forth by their criticisms in the VOL. I. L 218 AUTHORS AND THEIR WORKS. public journals. The sour, the surly, and the malignant reviewer will almost invariably be found exhibiting the same unamiable qualities in the relations of private life ; while the kindly and generous-minded critic, in newspapers and periodicals, will, with remarkably few excep- tions, be found to be amiable and generous in the bosom of his family, and in all his inter- course with society." CHAPTER XVI. Joseph is taken seriously ill — Neglect of his acquaintances — Ingratitude — Conversation with Mr. Lovegood on the argu- ments in favour of and against Christianity. Three months after the date of the conversation between him and Mr. Lovegood, recorded in the last chapter, Joseph was taken seriously ill ; so seriously, indeed, that, for five weeks of the period during which he was confined to his bed, his life was deemed, by the medical gentleman who attended him, to be in imminent danger. He was, in some respects, a man of very sensi- tive feelings ; and the malady with which he had been seized was considerably aggravated by the circumstance of none — no, not one — of his boon companions, or hotel acquaintances, call- ing to inquire for him, after the first fortnight JOSEPH S ACQUAINTANCES. of his illness. When first confined to his bed, some of them did make a formal call to inquire how he was ; but ten or twelve days sufficed to test the quality and strength of their friendship. After the lapse of that brief period, they not only ceased to call on, but even to think of, him. He was scarcely any more remembered by them, than if such a person as Joseph Jenkins had never existed. And so it will generally be found. Those friendships — if so they ought to be called — which are formed of no better materials than those which are supplied by a similarity of convivial tastes, and of loose practices in the ordinary walks of life, are, indeed, but rarely to be depended on. They lack cordiality or strength while they last, and are always liable to be snapt asunder by the slightest breath of adver- sity. Most poignantly did the mind of Joseph feel the desertion of those with whom he had spent so many hours of his life since his settlement in INGRATITUDE. 221 London ; with whom, indeed, was spent almost every fragment of his time not required in the discharge of his professional duties. What aggravated the bitterness of his disappointment was the fact, that he had been of considerable service to some of their number, not merely by forwarding their views, but by repeatedly assist- ing them with small loans of money. He con- sequently felt, that he had claims not only on their friendship, but on their gratitude ; and to neglect him entirely — to suffer him to languish on his bed, or spend his tedious hours alone in his apartment, without once calling to stay an hour with him, or even to inquire for him, was the return which they made. The philosophers of ancient Greece and Rome regarded ingratitude as one of the worst crimes which could be committed; and, in accordance with this conviction, they laid down the position, that those who were guilty of it deserved a double punishment. A more una- miable state of mind than that evinced by the 222 INGRATITUDE. ungrateful man, it would be impossible to con- ceive. And yet it is to be feared, that this state of feeling, so abhorrent to every well- regulated mind, prevails to a fearful extent at the present time. Do we not witness it every day of our lives? Do we not, indeed, expe- rience it every hour of our existence? Nor does the unsightly evil end even here. "Who that has experienced aught of human life — who that has sought, from the purest, and holiest, and most disinterested motives, to avert a threatened calamity, or to remove an evil which had already overtaken and threatened to crush some acquaintance — has not, when success had crowned his generous exertions, found that, instead of being rewarded with the love and gratitude of him he had served, perhaps saved, been treated with a coldness and neglect he had never witnessed before ? Nor is this all. To perform to some men acts of the purest friend- ship which one human being ever performed to another, is often, indeed, to incur the posi- INGRATITUDE. 22S tive enmity of the very party you have placed under the deepest obligations. Oh! it does make the heart sick, and the spirit sink, when one meets with such a return for deeds of kind- ness and friendship which his own conscience tells him were performed from motives of the most generous kind ; from motives as pure, we had almost said, as ever existed even in the breasts of angels themselves. The Greeks and the Romans were right in regarding ingratitude as one of the most ignoble acts of which a man could be guilty. It entails the deepest degradation on human nature ; and inspires in every virtuously-consti- tuted mind, a feeling of shame for one's species. Pity that it is so common. It is to be hourly met with. Go where one will, it is sure to cross his path. Ingratitude has slain its thou- sands. Many a noble heart has been broken by its constant reflections on the utter neglect of those on whose attention and friendship the victim had claims of the most powerful kind. 224f INGRATITUDE. The bosom of many a reader will respond to the justice of the remark, when I say that, to confer an essential service on an acquaintance is (as has just been remarked) often the sure way to forfeit his friendship and put an end to the intimacy which previously existed. And in proportion to the importance of the service rendered, is often the desire of the party served to have no farther intercourse — or, at any rate, as little as possible — with him who has conferred the obligation. Such individuals are guilty of conduct which is not only in the highest degree unworthy in itself, but is productive of the worst results to society; for persons who are constitutionally of a generous mind, and in whose bosoms nature has implanted feelings of friendship for their fellow-men, are forced to the conclusion, by the instances of ingratitude with which they meet, that the surest way to cause an acquaintance to demean himself with coldness, if not to put an end altogether to the previously existing intimacy, is to render INTERVIEW WITH MR. LOVEGOOD. 225 him the greatest service which it is in your power to perform. And when once such a con- clusion as this has forced itself on the mind, what wonder if it extinguish all the charities and kindliness which before glowed in one's heart, and restrain his hand for the future from serving those who may stand in need of his assistance ? Such were some of the considerations which occupied Joseph's mind. Most acutely (as before remarked) did he feel the neglect of those who were formerly his constant associates in the hours set apart to convivial indulgences. Their neglect was heightened by contrast. Mr. Love- good, the moment he heard of his illness, hurried to his bedside ; and seldom did a day pass with- out the presence of that gentleman, for a longer or shorter period, in his sick chamber. What chiefly occupies our mind, is usually that on which we are most ready to speak. Joseph had. scarcely thought, for some weeks past, of any- thing but the indifference to the issue of his ill- l2 226 CONVERSATION WITH MR. LOVEGOOD. ness, which his acquaintances had manifested ; and, having no one else but Mr. Lovegood to whom he could unbosom himself, he made some pointed observations to him on the subject. " I do not at all wonder at the circumstance," remarked the latter. Joseph looked surprised on hearing the ob- servation. " I see you wonder at the remark." " I confess I do ; because I had formed a better opinion of human nature." " I fear," replied Mr. Lovegood, " your opinion of human nature in its unregenerate state, has been more favourable than facts would warrant." " I admit it has been, so far as my former associates are concerned." " A little more experience of the world would have led you to give a more extended applica- tion to the remark." " I hope not ; charity would lead me to be- lieve that my late acquaintances— for, should I CONVERSATION WITH MR. LOVEGOOD. 227 be fortunate enough to recover, they will be my acquaintances no more — must be among the most unfavourable specimens of our species which are to be met with." " In that you are mistaken," remarked Mr. Lovegood. " I do not say that there can be no friendship among men whose minds are unre- newed by a supernatural influence — for I have known instances in which there has been ; but I do maintain, as the result of a very extensive acquaintance with the world, that such instances are exceedingly rare. Should you, in the event of your recovery, persist in forming your inti- macies with unsanctified men, you will be again doomed to realize, in all the bitterness of expe- rience, the truth of my statement." Joseph was silent. " May I be permitted, in the spirit of genuine kindness, to ask a question?" inquired Mr. Lovegood. " Certainly, by all means," answered Joseph. " Well, then, do you view matters— and. 228 RELIGIOUS MATTERS. above all, religious matters — in the same light as you did when in perfect health, and in your moments of hilarity among your former asso- ciates?" " I view things differently to this extent, that I am alive to the hollowness of seeming friend- ship, which I once thought real. Had not ex- perience taught me, had I not been confined to a sick chamber, I could never have believed that acquaintances on whom I had lavished unnum- bered acts of kindness, could have as entirely deserted me as if I had been suddenly trans- formed into some object too hideous to be seen." " My question," observed Mr. Lovegood, " did not point to the ingratitude and neglect of your former companions ; it had reference to your views on religious topics." Joseph returned no answer. " I should be sorry," pursued the other, " to press upon you a subject on which you are un- willing to converse ; but you will admit, what- ever view you take of it, that it is the most CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. 229 momentous question which ever occupied the thoughts of man." Joseph assented. " And I have generally found, that however much persons may be indisposed to entertain the subject when in the enjoyment of health, and when borne along on the tide of prosperity, their minds are accessible to reason and their judgments to conviction, when stretched on a bed of sickness." Joseph was silent. " I am sure," continued Mr. Lovegood, " that, apart from the truth or falsehood of Christianity, you are satisfied, that it is a system far more suited to a person in your circumstances, than the infidel or sceptical creed which you have unhappily embraced." " I admit it. That conviction is now most deeply impressed on my mind. I am a stranger to the joys inspired by a firm faith in that blessed immortality which the Gospel professes to unfold. I am a slave, do what I may, to fears 230 CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. and apprehensions regarding a future state. Still I cannot satisfy myself that Christianity is true." ** Do you not think," suggested Mr. Love- good, " that your practice may have something to do with your principles ?" ^ " I do not," replied Joseph, ** very clearly see how it can. I can easily understand in what way a man's creed may influence his conduct ; but I cannot so easily comprehend how a man's conduct can influence or control his creed." " To me the thing is plain. Have you never felt your conscience reproving you for certain actions you have performed ? And, when thus condemned by that inward monitor, have you not felt a wish arising in your bosom, that no punishment were annexed to particular moral crimes ; and, as Christianity does annex fearful penalties to all such ofiences, have you not felt a wish that Christianity itself were not true ? " " I must own," replied Joseph, " that I have felt a process, similar to what you describe, going on in my mind." CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. 231 " Then you cannot fail to perceive, that your conduct influences your creed. You must be aware, that when you thus once wishy because it is for your interest, that a certain class of opinions were not true, you are already half-way towards the rejection of them ; the remainder of the distance is trodden with an incredible rapidity. Depend on it, my dear friend, that were men's lives more correct in a moral point of view — were they less at variance with the spirit and precepts of the Christian system, that system would be much more generally em- braced than it is." " I confess," said Joseph, " that I do some- times wish I could bring myself to believe in revelation ; but I cannot." " What is the principal obstacle that lies in the way of your reception of the Christian system ? " " I can scarcely tell ; unless it be an impres- sion, of which I cannot rid myself, that, after man ceases to exist on earth, he ceases to exist at all." 232 CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. '' The man wlio can abandon himself to so gloomy a belief, is assuredly to be pitied. His must indeed be a desolate bosom. To me it has always appeared unaccountable, that any one who rejects the idea of a future state — who believes that contemporaneously with the death of the body is the annihilation of the spirit, can reconcile himself to existence at all. "Why should he bear up under the ills of life, when self-destruction is an infallible specific for them all ? Why endure even a twinge of the tooth- ache, when he has it in his power, at any mo- ment he chooses, to put an end to pain entirely and for ever ? " " I can only," replied Joseph, " account for the tenacity with which those of us cling to life who have no belief in a future state, by an undefinable instinct which nature has implanted in our breasts, and which never leaves us so long as existence lasts." " The attachment to life amidst all its trou- bles and trials, which those who entertain your CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. 2SS views exhibit, is, to say the least of it, anoma- lous and inconsistent," said Mr. Lovegood. " I admit that it is," replied Joseph ; " but is not life itself made up of a mass of incon- sistencies ? " " It isj certainly, on j/our principles, but not on those of Christianity. Revelation reconciles the various seeming discrepancies which we meet with in the world ; it clears up all mys- teries ; makes darkness light and crooked things straight," "Tjf one could only believe in its truth," remarked Joseph, with significant emphasis. " And why not ? Others have done so : they do so still. Many, indeed a large majority of the most illustrious men in every country and every age, since the death of its Founder, have cordially embraced Christianity. Where shall we find in the ranks of the rejectors of revela- tion, names as distinguished as those of Bacon^ Locke, Milton, Boyle, Newton, and others that could be named ? And if such individuals could 234f CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. make an unreserved surrender of their judgments to the truth of the Christian scheme, there surely can exist no moral necessity why you should not also embrace the Christian system. You are not, I am sure, vain enough to suppose that your judgment and your capacity for sift- ing and weighing evidence, are superior to what theirs were." " You only," replied Joseph, " do me justice in acquitting me of any such vanity. But still, if I cannot yield the assent of my understand- ing to certain moral or religious propositions, I cannot help it. The mind is not to be forced : persecution may achieve a seeming conviction, it may extort a lip admission that the mind concurs in views which it formerly repudiated, but persecution cannot influence or control the mind." "But have you, allow me to ask, honestly and perseveringly sought to arrive at the truth in this momentous matter ? Have you not come too hastily to your present opinion ? Have you CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. 235 not too suddenly arrived at the conclusion that Christianity is not true ?" " I have read a great deal, and thought still more on the subject." " On both sides of the question ? " " On both sides of the question." " And equally on both sides ? " " I am not sure that I could, with a strict regard to truth, say that I have read as much on the evidences of the truth of revelation as I have on the arguments which have been urged against it." " Then you are not a competent judge ; you have no right to come to a conclusion on the subject ; certainly not, at any rate, to an ad- verse conclusion. Your case is that of almost every unbeliever : infidels greedily devour what- ever is written against Christianity, and as studiously omit the perusal of the masterly treatises written in its favour." Joseph felt that the observation was strictly applicable to him, and therefore was silent. 2S6 CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. " But, my dear friend," resumed Mr. Love- good, "I do not say this with the view of woimding your feelings. I make the remarks you have heard in the hope of convincing you that you have not acted with the integrity required on a question of such unspeakable importance, and, consequently, of more fully opening your mind to the reception of evidence. But permit me to make one or two observations on your statement, that you have, somehow or other, arrived at the conclusion, that after death man ceases to exist altogether, and conse- quently is no longer susceptible of pleasure or pain, of happiness or misery." " A strong impression to that effect, to say the least of it, has taken possession of my mind." *' I can deeply sympathize with you, because that very idea did for a season, before I cor- dially embraced Christianity — for there was a period in my life, when, without absolutely rejecting revelation, I was not entirely con- CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. 237 vinced of its truth — often intrude on my mind. But the moment I became thoroughly per- suaded that the Bible constitutes a revelation from Heaven, that moment all scepticism, or misgivings as to the truth of any doctrine it contains, vanished away. I then became a settled and firm believer not only in the doc- trine of a future state, but in that of rewards and punishments according to the deeds done in the body. You, however, have not yet been able to yield your assent to the truth of the Scriptures, and, consequently, you must be reasoned with on the principles of philosophy only. Well, then, you admit that you do exist." " Certainly ; that is a proposition regarding which there can be no scepticism. It is one of the few truths in which all are agreed. Des- cartes, in the plenitude of his anxiety to make men sceptical on all points, advised them to begin by doubting their own existence. His advice, however, was of a nature that no one 238 CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. could take : he could not take it himself. He must indeed have a wonderful capacity for doubting, who could doubt his own existence." " And, I presume," resumed Mr. Lovegood, *' that, as you admit your existence, you will also admit with equal readiness, that you have been created or made." " The latter proposition is as undeniable as the former." " Nor will you hesitate to acknowledge that you did not make or create yourself." "Such a supposition would be the very essence of absurdity. It would involve a con- tradiction." " You must have been called into being by some Power superior to, and altogether inde- pendent of, yourself." " Undoubtedly ; there can be no question on that point." "Well, then, since you thus admit your existence, and that you did not create or make yourself, but that you were created or made by CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. 239 some other Power, does it not, so far from appearing unreasonable, appear exceedingly probable, that the same Power which gave you an existence here, will confer on you an exist- ence hereafter ; or, to speak more in accordance with the light of Christianity, continue in a future state the existence you now enjoy ?" " But," suggested Joseph, " all our notions of a future state imply not only a difference of being, but an existence in a different sphere ; and these circumstances increase the difficulty of believing in a future state." "They ought," replied Mr. Lovegood, "to have no such effect; assuredly they have no such necessary tendency. Just only assume for a moment, that the child in the mater- nal womb had the reasoning power as fully developed as persons of mature age, instead of being in an exceedingly imperfect state — if, indeed, it can be said to exist at all ; — and that, by some process or other of com- municating knowledge with which we are un- 240 CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. acquainted, the unborn child were informed that, after the lapse of a few weeks or months, it would be ushered into an entirely new world, and, instead of being confined to the limited space of its mother's womb, where it could hear no sound and see no object, it would, after the expiration of a certain period, roam at pleasure among new and illimitable regions, in which, above, there would be a sun, a moon, and stars innumerable, while the earth on which it trod would present landscapes of surpassing loveliness : just only suppose that it were possible to com- municate information of this nature to the child in its mother's womb, and that it possessed the requisite intelligence to comprehend its purport ; only, I repeat, suppose all this, and then say, whether the changes which the infant would, in that case, undergo between any period previous to its birth and its reach- ing the age of ten or twelve, or whether the change in its sphere as the tenant of the womb and the full-grown inhabitant of this earth, CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. 241 would not be almost, if not altogether, as great as those which the Scriptures point out as necessary to be undergone by all men after death. And if the event shows that the con- clusion of the unborn child, supposing it capa- ble of coming to conclusions — that it would never have any other mode or sphere of exist- ence than it then has, is altogether erroneous, have we not the strongest presumptive grounds for believing, putting out of view the testi- mony of revelation on the subject, that there are another state and sphere of existence beyond the confines of the present life ?" Joseph listened with evident attention to the argument of his friend, but said it failed to carry con\dction to his mind. Mr. Lovegood rephed, that he was sorry to hear it, but expressed a hope that, by pursuing the line of reasoning and illustration which the few observations he had made had only opened, the result would eventually be his belief in a future state. "Will you," he added, "bear VOL, I. M 242 CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. with me while I make one or two more remarks?'* " Oh, certainly," rejoined Joseph. " He must, indeed, have but little faith in his creed who is afraid to listen to any observations having for their object to show that it is untenable." "Well, then, I shall, for the moment, put Christianity wholly out of the question, and state my position thus : — Either there must be no God, or there must be a future state of being in which the virtuous shall be rewarded and the wicked punished. I shall enter into no elaborate arguments to prove the existence of a Supreme Being — that is the province of the pro- fessed theologian ; neither, even were I competent to the task, would this be the proper occasion. Ours being merely an accidental conversation, I shall content myself with a few general observa- tions. There is something in every virtuous breast which leads one inevitably and utterly to revolt from the awful doctrine, that there is no God. I should hke to have a faithful CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. 243 description of the thoughts,, and feelings, and operations of that mind which has reached the astounding hardihood of excluding the Deity from the universe. How dark, and desolate, and wretched, must be the bosom of the man who has attained the fearful climax of audacity necessarily involved in the denial of the exist- ence of a God! No Supreme Being to punish him for his crimes ! Why, then, hesitate for a single instant to commit any action, no matter how atrocious the light in which society may regard it, for which the law will not punish him? No Almighty to reward him for his virtues ! Why, then, perform acts of benevolence and mercy for which society will not recom- pense him? If there be no Supreme Being, then let mankind apostrophise the principle of evil as did Milton's fallen angel — * Evil, be thou my good ; ' that is to say, injure, and plunder, and rob your fellow-men, to the great- est possible extent, no matter what the amount of misery you inflict on them, if it only 244 CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. administer to your own gratification, without incurring the risk of legal consequences. Athe- ists tell us that the existence of a God has never been satisfactorily proved. The evidence, I admit, is not of that class which comes under the designation of mathematical demonstration ; but it is of the most conclusive kind of which a moral truth can be conceived susceptible. Creation and Providence, everything above, below, about, and within us, proclaim aloud that there is a God; and I do not believe the human being ever existed, who had not, at one time or other of his life, overwhelming convictions in his own breast of the existence of a Supreme Being. Is there to be found a man among those who have embraced the principles of atheism, who can lay his hand on his heart and say, that a belief in the existence of a God has never forced itself on his mind ? No such man is to be found. Atheists demand of their opponents proofs of the existence of the Deity, which shall be as conclusive as those which CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. 245 demonstrate a mathematical proposition. The demand is unreasonable. I speak with all reve- rence, but I speak advisedly, when I say that, constituted as man now is, the Supreme Being could not, consistently with his own character and revealed purposes, furnish the desired proofs. Man while here is in a state of pro- bation. Even atheists will, in a modified sense, admit the truth of this proposition; they mil admit that man is surrounded by circumstances which test his moral character, and which have visible bearings on his conduct. If the Deity were to furnish mankind with the proofs of his own existence which atheists demand, then man's faith in the being of a God would become inevitable; it would be a matter of absolute necessity ; and he would consequently cease to be in a probationary state in reference to that first and most essential principle of all religion. But can atheists furnish us with that class of evidence for the non-existence of a God, which they demand of us in proof of 246 CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. his existence ? Unless they can, they have no right to demand it of us. So far from this, they cannot furnish us with anything worthy of the name of even moral evidence in support of their proposition, that there is no God. They content themselves with mere assertions on the subject. They endeavour to dogmatise and ridicule men out of all belief in a Divine Being, but they do not — at any rate, not so far as I am aware — advance any- thing bearing the semblance of argument in support of their position. There is something awfully daring and presumptuous in coming to the conclusion, that there is no God. That conclusion actually involves, on the part of the misguided individual who arrives at it, an assumption of the very qualities in his own person which he denies to the Being whom the believers in revealed religion — ay, and even deists too, regard as God. In other words, the denial of the existence of the Deity is a virtual arrogation, by the person making it. CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. 247 of the very attributes which constitute Deity. On this point I would earnestly commend to the serious attention of atheists, the following passage from Foster's 'Essays on Decision of Character,' which is, perhaps, one of the most striking passages within the whole range of English Kterature. Mr. Foster proves, with the clearness of demonstration, that it is impos- sible, whatever men may pretend, that they can, with the slightest regard to even the semblance of reasoning, come to the conclu- sion that there is no God. He shows, that the very fact, supposing it possible, of a man excluding a Supreme Being from the universe, actually involves his assumed possession of the very attributes which constitute the essence of a God. The passage, when I first met with it, struck me as one of such singular force, that I committed it to memory. It is as follows : — " ' I will imagine,* says that wonderful man, ' only one case more, on which you would em- 248 CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. phatically express your compassion, though for one of the most daring beings in the creation, a contemner of God, who explodes his law by denying his existence. " * If you were so unacquainted with mankind, that this character might be announced to you as a rare or singular phenomenon, your conjec- tures, till you saw and heard the man, at the nature and extent of the discipline through which he must have advanced, would be led towards something extraordinary. And you might think that the term of that discipline must have been very long ; since a quick train of impressions, a short series of mental grada- tions, within the little space of a few months and years, would not seem enough to have matured such an awful heroism. Surely that creature that thus lifts his voice, and defies all invisible Power within the possibilities of in- finity, challenging whatever unknown Being may hear him, and may appropriate that title of Almighty which is pronounced in scorn, to CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. 249 evince his existence, if he will, by his ven- geance, was not as yesterday a little child, that would tremble and cry at the approach of a diminutive reptile. " * But indeed it is heroism no longer, if he knows that there is no God. The wonder, then, turns on the great process, by which a man could grow to the immense intelligence that can know that there is no God. What ages and what lights are requisite for this attainment! This intelligence involves the very attributes of Divinity, while a God is denied: for unless this man is omnipresent, unless he is at this moment in every place in the universe, he can- not know but there may be in some place mani- festations of a Deity by which even he would be overpowered. If he does not know absolutely every agent in the universe, the one that he does not know may be God. If he is not him- self the chief agent in the universe, and does not know what is so, that which is so may be God. If he is not in absolute possession of all M 2 250 CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. the propositions that constitute universal truths the one which he wants may be, that there is a God. If he cannot with certainty assign the cause of all that he perceives to exist, that cause may be a God. If he does not know everything that has been done in the immea- surable ages that are past, some things may have been done by a God. Thus, unless he knows all things — that is, precludes another Deity by being one himself, he cannot know that the Being whose existence he rejects does not exist. But he must know that he does not exist, else he deserves equal contempt and com- passion for the temerity with which he firmly avows his rejection, and acts accordingly. And yet a man of ordinary age and intelligence may present himself to you with the avowal of being thus distinguished from the crowd; and if he would describe the manner in which he has attained this eminence, you would feel a melancholy interest in contemplating that pro- cess, of which the result is so portentous.' CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. 251 " Is not the passage a very remarkable one ? " said Mr. Lovegood, when he had finished its rehearsal. ** It is, unquestionably, very original and very striking. Every one must admit, that it is a powerful passage, even should he doubt the conclusiveness of its reasoning." " All I shall say on that point," remarked Mr. Lovegood, is this : — I should like to see those who dissent from its conclusions, attempt an exposure of the fallacy which they fancy they have discovered in them . Jus t let them shut them- selves up for one short hour in unbroken soli- tude, and make the attempt. If they only do this; if they but reflect upon it calmly and fully ; if they bestow on it a careful and candid consideration, I trust the event will prove, that I am not over-sanguine in anticipating that it will, through the blessing of that very Being whose existence they have hitherto denied, be the means of rescuing some of them from that fearful gulph of atheism into which they have 252 CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. plunged themselves, and establishing them in the firm faith of the existence of a Creator, a Preserver, and a moral Governor of the universe. It w^ere far more rational and far better, even as regards the individual's own present happiness, to believe, as Lord Bacon says, in all the absurdities of the Talmud, than to deny the existence of a God : it were infinitely more reasonable and more consolatory to a rightly constituted mind, to believe in the countless inanimate deities of the heathen, than to believe in no Deity at all. Atheists make large pretensions to philosophy: give me, in preference to their creed, the philo- sophy which obtains in the darkest and most barbarous regions of Africa ; for even there the mind of the poor untutored savage ' sees God in clouds, and hears him in the winds.' But," continued Mr. Lovegood, after a brief pause, " I shall suppose the existence of a God to be con- ceded. Well, then, if a Supreme Being exists, I hold that a future state of rewards and punish- CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. 253 ments follows as a necessary consequence. Here, again, I would purposely abstain from anything metaphysical. I put my argument on this plain intelligible ground : — We can form no concep- tion of a Deity, without investing him with the attributes of omniscience, almighty power, spot- less purity, and perfect justice. He must have each and all of these. He must have the power equally to punish the bad and reward the good. Guilt, being so opposed to his own nature, must be the subject of his deep displea- sure ; while goodness, being a transcript of his image, must be viewed by him with unspeak- able satisfaction. "Whatever he thus knows to be deserving of punishment, and what he knows to be deserving of reward, the justice of his character calls on his almighty power to punish and to reward. But, in the present life, it is palpable to all — indeed it has never been denied — that the worst and most profligate of men often entirely escape punishment ; while it is equally true, and equally admitted, that the 254 CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. most virtuous of mankind frequently live and die in wretchedness; not only never enjoying the revs^ards of virtue, but treated with the grossest injustice and the greatest unkindness by their fellow-men. The conviction, therefore, is irresistible, that there must be a future state in which these seeming anomalies in the moral government of God shall all be explained and reconciled, by the rewards which will be be- stowed on the righteous, and the punishments which will be inflicted on the guilty. This," continued Mr. Lovegood, " appears to me an unanswerable, though simple, mode of arguing the existence of a future state of rewards and punishments ; and I cannot divest my mind of the powerful conviction, that there are mo- ments in the life of every professed infidel, who has not sought refuge in the gloom and hor- rors of absolute atheism, in which the force of the argument does commend itself to his judg- ment." Joseph made no attempt at reply ; he merely CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. ^55 remarked, that the subject was one on which there was no positive certainty, because there was no mathematical proof on either side. " Well, then," remarked Mr. Lovegood, " I am willing to put the matter on that footing. I am willing to concede to you the truth of your own proposition. I am willing, for the moment, to concur with you, that there is no absolute certainty on the point. Viewing, then, the sub- ject in that light, does, let me ask you, the un- believer or the Christian stand in the safer posi- tion ? I will go still farther. I will even, for the sake of argument, admit, if you wish it, that the proposition, that Christianity has no pretensions to the character of a divine revela- tion, is susceptible of demonstration. What then ? What does the deluded believer in its truth lose by his faith in it ? If there be no hereafter, he cannot, of course, lose anything in a future state from his credulity in this world. And you will hardly, in the face of all testi- mony and observation, venture to assert, that 256 CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. the Christian loses hy his religion in this life. The delusion he is, for the moment, assumed to cherish, is, necessarily, a delightful delusion. Dr. Johnson says, that half the happiness of this life is derived from hopes which are not des- tined to be ever realized. What, then, must be the measure of happiness which the believer derives from the glorious hopes which he so fondly cherishes ? If hopes which only embrace objects which are finite, fleeting, and neces- sarily limited to the duration of human life, be productive of so much happiness to the bosom in which they have been engendered and are fostered — what^ oh! what must be the amount and quality of that bliss which is produced by the vigorous exercise of an assured hope of realizing in another world, objects of infinite, immutable, and imperishable good ? Then, again, as regards the Christian's conduct in the various relations of life, does his belief in reve- lation make him a worse member of society ; a worse husband, father, master, servant, subject, CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. 257 or citizen, than he would be were he to reject Christianity, and adopt the opposite system of faith ? That will not be pretended : it never has been pretended. Bolingbroke, Hume, Rosseau, and almost every infidel of note, have all, on the contrary, been candid enough to ad- mit, that Christianity not only contributes largely to the happiness of those who embrace it, but that it makes them, at the same time, better members of society. And I am much mistaken, Mr. Jenkins, if your candour will not prompt you to make a similar admis- sion." " I do admit it," replied Joseph, with con- siderable emphasis. " I expected as much," remarked Mr. Love- good. " But," he continued, " if Christianity should be true; if there be a future state in which virtue shall be rewarded and vice pu- nished, how unutterably awful the alternative to the infidel! — how terrible his doom! — how indescribably fearful his destiny ! The error is 258 CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. irremediable ; its consequences are eternal. Ah, my friend, just only devote a few hours of your present seclusion from society, to the considera- tion of the world of import there is in that little ^word 'if.' If Christianity be true ; if there be a future state ; if there be a Supreme Being, who will hereafter reward every man according to his deeds, what will become of those who reject divine revelation; or, in the more emphatic language of the Scripture, where vdll the ungodly and the sinner appear ? But, I fear," said Mr. Lovegood, in conclusion, " I only weary you." " Oh, no; certainly not," replied Joseph. " The subject, whatever view may be taken of it, is, unquestionably, worthy of the gravest con- sideration." "I shall be exceedingly happy," remarked Mr. Lovegood, "if anything I have said may have the effect of leading you to reconsider your views on matters of such unspeakable import- ance. I shall call on you again in a few days, CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. 259 when I hope to find you continuing to im- prove in health and strength. In the meantime I shall wish you good night." " Good night, and I am exceedingly obliged to you for your visit," said Joseph, extending his hand to Mr. Lovegood, who, after having cordially shaken it, quitted the room. CHAPTER XVII. Is restored to health— Effect of the conversation with Mr. Lovegood described in the last chapter — Visits Hastings. Joseph continued to recover gradually from his severe and protracted illness ; and, in four weeks from the time of Mr. Lovegood's visit recorded in the preceding chapter, his health w^as so far restored that he was able to quit his room. In a fortnight more he felt himself sufficiently recovered to resume his professional avocations as a reporter and a literary man. For some days after the conversation which he had had with Mr. Lovegood, on the import- ance and truth of the Christian system, Joseph felt a decided conviction that the arguments of his friend in favour of the being of a God and the existence of a future state of rewards and CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. 261 punishments, were unanswerable. The result was, that his mind suddenly acquired a pecu- liarly solemn tone, and he resolved on re- gulating his after life by the light which had so recently beamed on his mind. As yet, how- ever, he had not learned the necessity of aid from on high to carry out any virtuous resolu- tions he might form. He made his resolves on this point in the same way as he would have done, had he simply intended to visit St. Paul's, or any place of public amusement. The result was the same as in every other similar case, it only proved the futility and folly, as well as sinfulness, of religious resolutions formed in one's own strength. No sooner was Joseph once more in a condition to mingle in society, and to resume his usual avocations, than he returned to his former libertine course of conduct. But though, practically, no good result fol- lowed from the conversation he had had with Mr. Lovegood on the truth of revealed religion, the CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. force of the arguments employed by the latter still remained undiminished on his mind. In this there is nothing surprising to those who have studied the philosophy of human nature, either as unfolded in Scripture or as seen in the ordinary intercourse of life. Every hour's observation brings before the mind the most striking illustrations of the truth, that it is possible for ihe judgment to be fully convinced on matters of religion, while the heart remains wholly unaffected. One cannot be an attentive observer of the characters of those with whom he daily meets in society, without being struck with the vast number of persons who are not only convinced in their judgments of the truth of Christianity, but who will zealously, and sometimes even ably, vindicate its claims to the character of a divine revelation, and yet whose whole conduct proves to demonstration that they have never felt in their hearts the power of those principles which have challenged the assent of their minds. Christendom abounds. CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. 263 and no portion of it more largely than the land we live in, with individuals who are specu- lative Christians, but practical infidels — men whose judgments do homage to revealed truth, but whose hearts have never embraced it, and whose conduct is, in consequence, altogether uninfluenced by it. This is what the Scripture so emphatically calls a dead faith. Far better were it for such persons that they had never known the truth at all. The case of the man who is a speculative as well as practical infidel, is preferable to theirs. Among this class of men, Joseph Jenkins was now to be ranged. His judgment was right, but his heart and his life were, as heretofore, wholly wrong. But though his speculative assent to the truth of Christianity was thus productive of no im- mediately practical results, in so far as his general conduct was concerned, the change which his creed had undergone was followed by one bene- ficial effect in reference to others. As a matter of course, he no longer sought to proselytise 264 CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. to infidel views, those with whom he met in the ordinary relations of life. And this circum- stance being soon observed by his more intimate acquaintances, led them to the conclusion that he had renounced his infidel views. And I may be permitted to take this op- portunity of expressing my surprise, how even the firm believer in infidelity — assuming that infidelity can have its firm believers — can, pro- vided he be a philanthropist, take any pleasure in attempting to bring over others to the sys- tem which he has embraced. Infidelity never yet made, and never can make, an individual happy ; but it invariably robs a man of the happiness he previously enjoyed. Even there- fore, were I an unbeliever in Christianity, I should feel under an imperative obligation, from mere considerations of benevolence, to allow others to enjoy opinions which are so well adapted to afibrd present comfort in every emergency, by the bright and blessed halo which it throws around the future. CHRISTIANITY AND INFIDELITY. 265 It has often struck my mind w-ith a force to which no words can give adequate expression, that even supposing it to be a delusion, the universal impression that there are regions beyond the precincts of time and the limits of terrestrial space, in which all the disorders of the present state of things will be remedied, and all the wrongs of the world redressed, is one of the wisest and most merciful ordinations of the benevolent Power who has given us being. But for the hope of a happy hereafter, there are mil- lions of our race to whom existence would be a burden too heavy to be borne. That glorious hope alone sustains them under the pressure of the toils and troubles of life. He, therefore, who seeks to rob his fellow-creatures of their faith in immortality, is the greatest enemy of his species, even supposing his own convictions in the non-existence of a future state are as strong as they are in the existence of the material world. Joseph, with a view to the complete restora- VOL. I. N 266 VISITS HASTINGS. tion of his health, repaired for a fortnight to Hastings, as soon as he could make the neces- sary arrangements for leaving town. Hastings is a delightful place : it is one of the most respectable — because so select in the charac- ter of its visitors — of the many watering- places which are located along our English coast. The scenery around is the most beauti- ful and picturesque I have ever witnessed. The view of the sea is delightful, studded as it is with its numerous fishing-boats, with here and there a vessel of larger size enthroned on the bosom of the ocean, and riding with an aspect of dig- nity and triumph to its destined haven. But the great attraction of Hastings to those who, like myself, are enamoured of lovely landscapes, is the surpassing richness of the terra Jirma scenery in its immediate vicinity. When I first travelled from Hastings to Rye, a distance of about twelve miles, it was between seven and nine o'clock in the evening, in the month of July. The singular fineness of that evening VISITS HASTINGS. 267 will never fade from my recollection. Not a breath of wind disturbed the stillness of the atmosphere. All was calm — perfectly calm. Nature seemed as if she had resolved to enjoy, at least for a little season, the luxury of a pro- found repose. It is no poetic flight of the fancy to say, that the sun seemed one vast globe of brilliant fire. Slowly yet majestically was that luminary descending towards the horizon, and rich beyond the power of expression was the yellow radiance which it poured on every object on earth's surface. At some parts of the road the view which the eye could command em- braced an extent of many miles in all directions. And in the landscapes which thus lay at my feet, as I stood on the summit of one of the highest hills in that part of Sussex, there were a variety and picturesqueness to which I feel assured there are but few parallels in the world we inhabit. Hill and dale, wood and vale, the green sward and the heath-clad moor; ex- tended rows of umbrageous trees intersecting VISITS HASTINGS. luxuriant fields of corn and grass; gentle- men's country seats, with their adjoining gardens and orchards ; and last, though not least, the clean and cheerful cottages of the peasantry, which rose up in hundreds at short distances from each other — were among the objects which contributed to the surpassingly beautiful scenery on which my vision feasted itself. I had read of charming landscapes in that class of romances known by the name of fairy tales, but I felt how poor were the efibrts of the imagination, when compared with the reality of the scenes which lay before me. No one could have looked on the landscapes which I then beheld, under such a concurrence of favourable circum- stances, without recurring in his mind to what he has read in the records of inspiration, of what must have been the pleasures of our first parents, while yet in a state of innocence, in the Paradise which their Maker assigned them. I thought how beautiful and blessed it were possible for this world to become, were VISITS HASTINGS. 269 moral and physical evil only exiled for ever from it. Hastings, in addition to the respectability of those who visit it in the fashionable season, and the singular beauty of the surrounding scenery, possesses this other great source of attraction — that it is, with the single exception of the Isle of Wight, the most healthy place for invalids in any part of England. The climate is peculiarly mild, and the air remarkably salubrious. Hence it is that so many patients labouring under pul- monary complaints, are sent to Hastings by their medical advisers. The place was full when Joseph Jenkins paid his visit to it. There he met with some literary acquaintances who had resorted thither with the same view as himself — ^namely, to enjoy a little relaxation at the seaside. CHAPTER XVIII. Joseph Jenkins attends, simply from motives of curiosity, a Socialist meeting held in the metropolis — The princi- ples promulgated — Mr. Hatchet's speech — Its effects — A ludicrous incident. Joseph, having spent his fortnight at Hastings, returned to town, considerably invigorated by the healthful seabreezes of that favourite watering-place. At the seaside, notwithstand- ing all the attractions of the place and the season, he had felt, for the last ten or twelve days, quite out of his element, and panted for the variety and excitement of metropolitan life. A certain amount of excitement was, indeed, necessary to his enjoyment of existence; nay, without something of a stirring kind, constituted A SOCIALIST MEETING. 271 as his mind then was, life would have been barely tolerable. This eagerness for mingling in scenes of an exciting kind often induced him to attend public meetings, where he expected to witness amusing exhibitions of character, though such attendance was not at the time necessary for professional purposes. The first meeting which his curiosity prompted him to attend, on his return to town, was a meeting of the friends and admirers of Robert Owen, then in the height of his glory as the founder of the Social system. When Mr. Owen first developed his views in the metropolis, they were cordially and promptly embraced by large masses of the working classes. The father of the Socialist philosophy not only held out to the operatives the Elysian prospect of being abundantly fed and clothed, and comfortably housed, under the " new moral state of things," whose immediate advent it was his mission to harbinger — but this, too, without the necessity of labour, or, if there should be any work, it would only be 272 A SOCIALIST MEETING. in the way of recreation; Mr. Owen, we say, not only inculcated these gratifying doctrines, but he was most zealous in his efforts to expose and banish from the world the egregious though popular error, that man is responsible to his Maker for his belief, and to society for his con- duct. Mr. Owen boldly maintained, that men's opinions and actions are wholly the effects of the bad system of education under which chil- dren are brought up. He farther contended that, were his Socialist views of education adopted, there would not, before another gene- ration had passed away, be a vicious man in the empire, but all would be perfectly virtuous. Mr. Owen was clear that society itself was the subject of the deepest blame, because it suffered a pernicious system of education to exist. But then the Social philosopher, in the plenitude of his charity, and on maturer consideration, ac- quitted society also of all blame ; because it had itself, when its members were boys and girls at their parents' hearths, or in the public school, A SOCIALIST MEETING. 273 been just as erroneously educated as those in- dividuals whom it condemned and punished. Mr. Owen, therefore, preached up the delight- ful doctrine, that society itself ought not to be punished, nor had it any right to apply the lash to any miseducated man who had committed crimes against the old, worn-out, obsolete state of things which previously prevailed. In fact, there was to be no restraint ; there were to be no checks, no punishments, no rewards of any kind, in the new state of things he came to bring about. Every man would have a right to do as he liked ; the promptings of his own passions were to be the rule of his life ; and, do what he pleased, nobody ought to blame him nor society to punish him for it. The most noto- rious and daring thief was quite as estimable a character as the most upright man, because his pilfering propensities and practices were the result of a vicious education : in other words, he was the creature of circumstances ; he had no control over his actions. N 2 274 A SOCIALIST MEETING. The first promulgation of such doctrines as these was, as might have been expected, re- garded by the vicious and v^orthless as a preli- minary step to the introduction of a millennial state of things. There vi^as unbounded exulta- tion among the immense crowds of idlers, thieves, and profligate characters of all descrip- tions, who were present at each successive meeting held to further these new, these libe- ral, and enlightened views. The Old Bailey, Cold Bath Fields, and other well-known locali- ties, would have been vocal with joy at the great discovery of Mr. Owen, had it not, unfortunately, been made rather late for the ladies and gentlemen residing in those places. No one will be surprised to learn that the new system made rapid progress. In a few vreeks, Mr. Owen could boast of numbering among his attached disciples, all the felons, pickpockets, burglars, swindlers, and other reck- less characters in London. He was the god of their idolatry. Their only regret was, that A SOCIALIST MEETING. 275 the new system could not be brought into immediate operation. It is needless to add, that Mr. Owen's ad- mirers were too deeply interested in the success of his philosophy, not to do everything in their power to hasten the advent of the new era, which it was their object to usher in. As al- ready remarked, Joseph Jenkins attended, merely lor the gratification of his own curiosity, one of the meetings soon after his return to town. The meeting was held in a very large building- near the farther end of Gray's Inn Road. It was crowded almost to suffocation ; there were nearly 3000 disciples of the illustrious So- cialist philosopher present, and there would have been double the number, had there been room for them. Mr. Owen himself, as a matter of course, presided on the occasion. He took the chair, as chairmen usually do, amidst loud cheers. He opened the meeting in a suitable speech; that is to say, a speech which was in perfect harmony with the principles of the new 276 A SOCIALIST MEETING. system, which he represented himself as com- missioned to propound. He took a cursory view of the differences which subsisted between the philosophy of his new moral world, and the absurd notions which obtained in the worn-out old world, of which it was their fate to be inha- bitants. Having concluded his own oration, Mr. Owen announced that Mr. Graball would move the first resolution, and address the meet- ing. Mr. Graball did so, and acquitted himself to the satisfaction of all present. The resolu- tion, which energetically denounced the unphi- losophical system which had heretofore prevailed in the old world, and represented man as the creature of circumstances, was in the act of being put from the chair, having been duly seconded, when an intelligent-looking young man, in the body of the meeting, said that he wished, with the chairman's permission, to make a few observations before the resolution was put. " Name, name," shouted a hundred voices at once. A SOCIALIST MEETING. 277 "My name is Butler/' answered the young man. " Who are you, sh' ?" shouted about a dozen voices at once. Before Mr. Butler could answer, a per- son possessing a more stentorian voice than any of the others, said, " Are you a So- cialist ? " • " No, I am not ! " was the answer to the latter question. "What are you then?" inquired a score of voices at once. " I am a Christian," replied the] young man, emphatically. Groans, hisses, and cries of " Turn him out," burst from the multitude at the mention of the word Christian. " I think we had better hear him," remarked Mr. Owen ; " otherwise we shall not only be accused of a want of fair play, but we shall be represented as shrinking from the discussion of our principles." 278 A SOCIALIST MEETING. Cries of " Go on/' from a few voices, and silence from the rest of the auditory, followed the observation of the chairman. Mr. Butler accordingly rose, and said, that the mover of the resolution had attempted to show, that man's character is partly the re- sult of physical organization, and partly of the influence of the external circumstances by which he is surrounded, and that no two human beings possess a similar organization. " The doctrine," said Mr. Butler, "that man is the creature of circumstances, is at variance with all experience and observation. Not only do children who have been reared under the same roof, receiving the same care, tenderness, and education from the same parents, often exhibit the most marked dissimilarity of character and conduct; but even twins who have been brought up under precisely the same circumstances, eating and drinking at the same time and out of the same dish, sleeping in the same bed, and, in short, receiving the same mental, moral, and physical A SOCIALIST MEETING. S79 education, are often found to be as unlike in temper, disposition, and conduct, as any two rational human beings could be supposed to be. This fact, then — a fact which must have been observed by every one who has paid the least attention to the subject — overthrows, at once and for ever, the Socialist theory so far as relates to the influence which the external circum- stances by which man is surrounded, are said to have in the formation of his character. If aught else were needed to demonstrate the absurdity of that hypothesis, it would be found in a fact which is one that occurs in thousands of cases every Sabbath-day — that two persons go to the same place of worship in an unconverted state, and, after having heard the same sermon, the one comes away in precisely the same state of mind as he entered ; while the other has experienced an entire change of mind, which will be accom- panied by a thorough change of conduct during the remainder of his life. And yet were not the external circumstances by which each was 280 A SOCIALIST MEETING. surrounded, while hearing the sermon, exactly the same ? "But I will not pursue the subject farther; lior is it necessary I should. Every man's observation and experience must convince him, that the potent influence which the Socialists ascribe to the external circumstances by which mankind are surrounded, is monstrously exagge- rated in the case of any man, and that, on many persons' characters, they exert no perceptible influence at all. But then the Socialists may tell me that I overlook the important fact, that they partly ascribe the formation of man's cha- racter to his physical organization. The phrase 'physical organization,' is one which I do not altogether understand. It sounds sufficiently well, but it is not so definite in its present application as could be desired. The Socialists, if T mistake them not, use it as but another name for the old doctrine of necessity. The Socialists are indeed necessitarians. Hence their doctrine of non-responsibility for men's A SOCIALIST MEETING. 281 actions, either to their fellow-men, or to any other intelligence, could they admit the exist- ence of any other intelligence. In their eyes man is no better than a mere machine, mov- ing only when propelled by circumstances. This position is also at issue with all observa- tion and experience. We daily witness entire and enduring changes in human character, effected through the agency of revealed reli- gion. We see the man whose breast was the abode of everything cruel and barbarous, be- come the wonder and admiration of all around him for his mildness, his benevolence, and humanity. The celebrated Howard, whose name will be ever hallowed wherever humanity asserts its rights in the bosom of man, is a remarkable case in point — not remarkable for the change undergone in his principles, feel- ings, dispositions, and conduct, but remark- able for the prominency with which his his- tory shines out in the biographical literature of the land. Howard was not naturally nor 282 A SOCIALIST MEETING. always the philanthropist which he proved him- self to be during the latter part of his life. For many years after he had attained to man's estate, he was not only a stranger to those humane and benevolent feelings which, when embodied in action, in the after part of his career, filled the civilized world with his fame, but was remarkable for his indiiference to the sufferings of his fellow-creatures. It was evan- gelical religion that softened his heart, human- ized his mind, and wrought a total transforma- tion in his character. Now, a Socialist, had such a person existed prior to Howard's conver- sion, would, at once, have attributed his indif- ference to human suffering, and other unamiable features in his character which I will not par- ticularise, to his physical organization, in con- junction with the alleged influence of the external circumstances by which he was sur- rounded ; while another Socialist, who chanced to become acquainted with him after his con- version, without, knowing anytliing of his pre- A SOCIALIST MEETING. 28S vious history, would, with equal confidence, have ascribed his sublime philanthropy, and all the other excellencies of his character, to the same causes — namely, physical organization, and the influence of the external circumstances by which he was surrounded. In other words, the Socialist before Howard's conversion would have traced all his vices, when a man of vicious character, to the causes in question ; while the Socialist who knew him only after his character had undergone the wonderful transformation to which I have alluded, would have ascribed all his virtues to the conjoint operation of the same causes. What more need be said with the view of exposing the absurdity of the Social notions respecting the effect of physical organization, and the influence of the external circumstances by which mankind are surrounded ? But I now " — Mr. Butler, who had met with frequent inter- ruptions in the course of his short address, was now assailed with a storm of hisses, yells, groans, &c., which rendered it impossible to 284 A SOCIALIST MEETING. proceed. He repeatedly appealed to Mr. Owen to exercise his authority as chairman, and pro- cure for him a patient hearing; assuring the father of Socialism that he would not occupy the time of the meeting two minutes longer. Mr. Owen, however, finding Mr. Butler's argu- ments to be rather awkward customers to deal with, took no notice of his appeals to him ; and the consequence was, that he was literally clamoured down. The resolution was then put, and carried without a single hand, with the exception of that of Mr. Butler, being held up against it. The applause was sufficiently prolonged to jus- tify the chairman in sitting down until it should subside. Having sufficiently subsided, Mr. Owen again rose from the chair, and, with special emphasis, as if anticipating something very unusual in the way of a speech, announced to the meeting that " Brother" Hatchet would next address it. . Before referring to Mr. Hatchet's speech — A SOCIALIST MEETING. ^5 which, as will be afterwards seen, was the speech of the evening, it may be proper to remark, that this was his maiden effort as a public speaker; and that he had only recently been converted, by the personal exertions of Mr. Owen himself, to " the new views of society." He was an honest, industrious man ; and, there- fore, the father of Socialism, tliinkir.g tliat it would not be amiss, for the sake of appearances, to have a few persons of character among them, who would take a prominent part in their pro- ceedings, was particularly anxious that he should move one of the resolutions at their next great meeting. Mr. Owen had accordingly, for seve- ral days, personally entreated Mr. Hatchet to move a resolution. The latter, at last, reluc- tantly consented. It was then agreed that he should move the second resolution, a copy of which was given him, in order that he might prepare an appropriate speech. Mr. Hatchet speedily prepared a speech to his own satisfaction ; but he thought that, in order to 286 A SOCIALIST MEETING. make his oratorical debut with the greater effect, a little harmless clap- trap at the commencement, might not be amiss. With that view, though not a rich man, and never evincing the slight- est disposition to play the fop, he came to the determination to purchase a fine new cloak — it being the winter season — in whose ample folds his person might be enveloped while sitting on the platform, waiting his turn to address the meeting, and which might be grace- fully laid aside when the chairman should announce his name, and he should have to rise to deliver himself of the load of eloquence lying so heavily on his mind. Thus much being premised by way of explana- tory observation, Mr. Hatchet, on the chairman announcing his name, rose from his seat, made a low bow to the meeting in return for the loud plaudits with which the mention of his name had been greeted, and, theatrically taking off his cloak, and placing it on the back of the chair he had just vacated, he proceeded to address the A SOCIALIST MEETING. 287 meeting. " Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen," said Mr. Hatchet, " I utter, I assure you, the senti- ments of my heart, when I say that never, in the whole course of my life, have T felt myself in a position of greater perplexity than I do at this moment. Unaccustomed, gentlemen, as I am to public speaking, I am borne down by an appre- hension, that the resolution which I have been chosen — unworthily chosen — to propose, will not receive justice at my hands. (Cries of " No fear;" " No danger;" Go on. Hatchet," and so forth.) Most sincerely do I speak when I say, that I wish the moving of the resolution had been confided to some more competent man than I am (Cries of " No, no ") to do it justice. The re- solution, gentlemen, is as follows : — * That all the crimes which are committed in the world, are to be ascribed to the erroneous opinions which prevail on the subject of education ; and that man is not responsible, and ought not to be punished by society, for his actions.' " The cheers which followed the reading of the resolu- 288 A SOCIALIST MEETING. tion, were cheers indeed. Accustomed as the ear of Joseph was to the plaudits with whicli popular propositions are received at public meetings, he had never before heard applause which could bear a moment's comparison with that which the reading of Mr. Hatchet's resolu- tion drew forth from the vast assemblage. When the cheering had in some measure subsided, the mover proceeded to establish the positions con- tained in his resolution. Ably and eloquently did he argue, that education could mould the human character at will ; and that, if all children were only properly trained, there would be no such thing as criminality of any kind in the world. The applause which this part of Mr. Hatchet's speech received, was not by any means so cordial or general as he, doubtless, anticipated. It was evident, that the great majority of his audience had no particular relish for the notion, that a time ever could come — at least they hoped it would not be in their time — when there would be no crime in the A SOCIALIST MEETING. 289 world ; for that seemed to imply, if they com- prehended the matter aright, that a period was expected, or, at all events, promised by the Socialists, in which there should be no longer an appropriation of what did not belong to one's self; a contingency, which would be so unlike anything which had occurred in their past expe- rience, that they could not bear to entertain the thought. When, however, Mr. Hatchet came to the consideration of the second part of his resolution, that, namely, wherein the great principle is so broadly laid down, that man is not blameable, nor ought to be held legally re- sponsible, for his actions, — the applause with which every successive sentence was received must have more than compensated for any want of gratification visible during the delivery of the first part of his address. Never was public speaker known to make a deeper impression on his hearers. You saw conviction in every coun- tenance, when Mr. Hatchet energetically de- scanted on, and went through an elaborate VOL. I. O ^90 A SOCIALIST MEETING. course of what he himself called ratiocinative reasoning, to prove the grand Social proposition, that man is not morally responsible, and ought not to be punished by the civil powder, for his actions, however much they may militate against the best interests of society. Oh ! the loudness and manifest cordiality of the applause which followed this part of Mr. Hatchet's speech! No one present could have before had the slightest idea of the capabilities of the human throat, when it has a sufficient motive to put all its powers into action. There is no extravagance, nothing hyperbolical, in what we say, when we assure our readers, that the plaudits uttered on this occasion by the vast assemblage, resem- bled so many peals of thunder. We are guilty of no figure of speech when we say, that Mr. Hatchet completely carried the sympathies of his hearers along with him in every word he spoke, in this part of his speech. If anything could have exceeded the efiect with which he laid down and enforced his views, as to the non- A SOCIALIST MEETING. ^1 responsibility of man for his actions, and the consequent criminality of society in punishing him with imprisonment, hard labour, transporta- tion beyond the seas, and the gallows itself, for conduct which he could not help, — ^it would have been the illustrations he gave of his positions. One of these was remarkable, not only for its singularly apposite nature, but for the noble disinterestedness of character on the part of the speaker, which it so forcibly displayed. ^* I do, gentlemen," said Mr. Hatchet — and warm and energetic as he had been before, he waxed still warmer and more energetic when he came to this part of his oration — " I do, gentlemen, stand before you with all the boldness of a man who feels that he is giving utterance to a great and momentous truth when I say, that the consequences of the faulty system of education which prevails among us, are completely to con- found all the distinctions between right and wrong ; and, being so thoroughly persuaded of this, I must add, that I could not hold that per- 2^2 A SOCIALIST MEETING. son to be a fit subject for blame or punishment, who robbed me of my property — of my own property, gentlemen." Here the audience rose in a body to their feet, just as if they had experienced some mesmeric agency. Not only was every throat vocal with the loudest hurrahs of which it was susceptible, but every hat in the place whirled in the air, and every foot was energetically applied to the floor. What was, perhaps, more remarkable still — at any rate it was the greatest triumph which Joseph Jenkins had ever seen achieved by oratory — the persons on the platform also simultaneously rose from their seats, and min- gled their plaudits, the ruffling of their feet, the clapping of their hands, and the waving of their hats, with those of the vast assemblage in the body of the meeting. Mr. Hatchet, as may well be supposed, was all this time in the zenith of his glory. Never had public speaker been so received before, on the delivery of his first address. While the A SOCIALIST MEETING. ^5 presence of you all, that knowing man's conduct to be entirely the effect of education, I shall always regard the thief with the same respect as I would the most honest man in the world." (Loud cries of " So will we.") Mr. Hatchet con- tinued in the same strain, and to the entire satis- faction of his audience, till the close of his address, when he sat down with a renewed assu- rance of the infinite pleasure he experienced in moving the resolution. Mr. Hatchet's resumption of his seat, was another signal for a renewed burst of applause. The plaudits he then received were as loud as the exhausted lungs and hoarse throats of his audience would admit of. The Socialists on the platform flocked around him like so many bees, — a regular struggle taking place among them as to who should first shake him by the hand, in token of their admiration of his speech. " A most able, eloquent, and convincing speech," burst in chorus from the lips of all. Even the chairman himself, instead of first 096 A SOCIALIST MEETING. announcing, as he ought to have done, the name of the seconder of the resolution, was so far carried away by the general feeling in favour of Mr. Hatchet's speech, as to shake him cordially by the hand, and audibly con- gratulate him on the triumphant manner in which he had demonstrated his positions. And the three thousand present in the body of the hall, would doubtless have followed the example set them on the platform, and indi- vidually congratulated Mr. Hatchet on his "splendid display of eloquence," but for the circumstance of the platform being only acces- sible by another door, which they knew to be locked. Mr. Hatchet, having thus received the audi- ble congratulations of his fellow-Socialists on the platform, and the inaudible, though not less real or cordial congratulations of those in the body of the room, arose from his seat, and turned about to the back of his chair, for the purpose of taking up and putting on (which he A SOCIALIST MEETING, 29S plaudits were ringing in his ears, and resounding through the large hall, his imagination was fondly feasting itself on the national reputation he was sure to acquire, or, rather, had already acquired, by his maiden speech. The audience having cheered the passage just quoted, till they could, literally, owing to physical exhaustion, cheer it no more, Mr. Hatchet resumed his address. "Yes, gentle- men," he continued, " the world has been too long the victim of the present anomalous and degrading state of things ; and it is high time that some great effort were made to banish error of every kind from off the face of the earth, and to introduce the new and glorious era which our illustrious chairman has had the honour of being the first to bring to light. I am sure, gentlemen, that I can confidently rely on your cordial co- operation in the strenuous efforts we are deter- mined to make to carry into practical effect the principles I have laid down in this imperfect address, (Loud and unanimous shouts of " You o2 ^4 A SOCIALIST MEETING. may — you may "). Gentlemen, I fully antici- pated that ready response. I am sure you firmly maintain with me — do you not, gentle- men ? — that no man is responsible for his actions, or ought to be punished for them. (Ener- getic cries of " We do," burst from all parts of the meeting). 1 am confident that you cor- dially concur in the great principle, that the thief, constituted as society now is, and erro- neously educated as mankind have been, is not a fit subject for blame, and ought not to be either punished by law, or virtually excluded from society because he commits felony. (Reite- rated and vociferous cries of " We do "). I am no less persuaded, gentlemen, that you will all give a cordial response to the sentiment, that the felon is just as respectable a member of society as the most upright and moral man in it. (The deafening cheers which greeted the utterance of the sentiment, showed how ortho- dox it appeared to the meeting). For my own part, gentlemen, I here publicly declare in the A SOCIALIST MEETING. 297 had fully resolved on doing in the most graceful possible manner) the handsome cloak which he had thrown over the chair when he commenced his oration. But, behold! no cloak was there. It had vanished. Mr. Hatchet first looked confounded, and then turned pale. For a few seconds he said nothing, but looked alter- nately at the vacant chair and the Socialists around him. When he had recovered the power of speech, he exclaimed, in accents which no language can describe, his eye looking unutterable things, " I'm , but they've stole my cloak. By all that's sacred, it's gone ! " A universal shout of laughter burst from the assembled multitude, in the midst of which there was heard a voice — " Is there anything sacred, Mr. Hatchet?" " Mr. Owen," resum.ed Mr. Hatchet, turning to the chairman, " do you mean to tell me that the person who has stolen my cloak knows nothing about the distinctions between right and wrong ? " 298 A SOCIALIST MEETING. "Ah, brother Hatchet," replied Mr. Owen, with imperturtable gravity; " ah, brother Hatchet ; come now, you know you're a great wag." The remark of the father of Socialism was greeted with laughter and cheers. " Ay, ay, Mr. Owen, it may be all very well for you to make light of the matter, but there's nothing jocular in it to me." And the mover of the second resolution looked furiously indignant as he apostrophised the father of Socialism. " Why, Mr. Hatchet," remarked one of the Socialists on the platform, "it's the greatest proof you could have of the effect of your speech. It forms a striking illustration of the power of your oratory. You are a WQxy per- suasive speaker." " Yes," echoed a shrill, penny-trumpet voice at the farther end of the hall, " it shows that Mr. Hatchet produced conwjiction in the minds of his auditors." A SOCIALIST MEETING. 299 Here a universal roar of laughter burst from the audience. *'Ay, and in their fingers too," remarked another Socialist, in the centre of the hall. " If I can only catch the rogue," said Mr. Hatchet, drily, "we shall soon have a conz^?ic- tion of another kind — a contf?iction at the Old Bailey." "The person wot prigged your cloak, old boy, is not responsible for his actions," cried a fourth. " No, he aint," responded a fifth. " It was all the effect of a defective educa- tion," remarked a sixth. " Is the tailor paid, Mr. Hatchet ?" asked a seventh. " Or did you take it on tick, old * un ? ' " in- quired an eighth. Renewed roars of laughter followed this dis- play of Social wit, in the midst of which Mr. Hatchet forced his way to the door, muttering, in the extremity of his mortification, curses 300 A SOCIAUST MEETING. loud and deep at the persons and principles of the Socialists. From that moment he cut all connexion with Mr. Owen and his disciples, — without the most slender probability of its ever being renewed. END OF VOL. I. CHAPTER I. Joseph becomes a member of the Eccentric Society — Its con- stitution and objects — Persons of distinction who have been members— Number of members. There is a Society in London under the name of "The Eccentrics," of whose existence it is probable a very considerable number of our readers have never heard. The society, which succeeded a similar one called " The Brilliants," can date its origin as far back as the year 1800. Several of Joseph*s most intimate acquaintances were members of this society, and being re- peatedly entreated by them to become an " Eccentric," he at last consented to being put in nomination as a candidate for admission. But before adverting to the circumstances connected VOL. II. B 2 THE ECCENTRICS. with his initiation, it may be proper that we should endeavour to give some idea of the con- stitution and objects of the society. It was, as has been just remarked, established on the ruins of " The Brilliants," in the com- mencing year of the present century, and can consequently boast of the very respectable age of forty-two. It was set on foot by a band of the choicest spirits then in the metropolis, who were anxious to have some fixed place in which , they could nightly meet for purposes of harm- less hilarity, and where in the spirit of innocent banter they might speak of each other with unrestrained freedom of remark. They were also, on the spur of the moment, to get up ridiculous charges against each other ; and the party preferring the charge wsa expected to make, with all due gravity, a lengthened speech, as able and ingenious as possible, in support of it. "Witnesses were to be called to substantiate the various counts contained in the indictment, and the party accused was not only to have the THE ECCENTRICS. 3 right of speaking at any length he pleased in self-defence, but was to have the privilege of cross-examining the witnesses of his accuser, and also calling witnesses of his own to dis- prove, where that was practicable, the accusa- tions brought against him. The proceedings, in short, bore a striking resemblance to those in a court of law ; the chairman being the judge, and the members present the jury. Trials of the nature to which we have alluded occu- pied, on many occasions, during the earlier and better period of the history of "The Eccen- trics," many hours ; and an amount of ability was often displayed in conducting the imaginary cases, which would have done no discredit to the most distinguished members of the English Bar. If this should appear an extravagant statement, the extravagance will vanish when it is mentioned that several of our leading judges now presiding in Westminster Hall, and a very large proportion of those at this moment at the head of the legal profession, and within a few 4 THE ECCENTRICS. Steps of the judicial bench, made their dehut as public speakers in the large room in the Suther- land Arms, May's Buildings, in which "The Eccentrics " at that time, and till within the last few years, held their meetings. Now they meet in a house in King Street, Covent Garden. Among the present peers and judges who took a prominent part in the proceedings of the Eccentric Society, in the earlier stages of its history, we may mention the names of Lord Denman and Lord Campbell. Among the distinguished counsel in our courts of law, who in the commencement of their public life were Eccentrics, and were in the habit of speaking at their meetings, we may mention the names of Sir Frederick Pollock, the present Attorney General; Mr. Shiel, Mr. Serjeant Spankie, Mr. Serjeant Murphy, Mr. Adolphus, Mr. Charles Phillips, and Mr. Clarkson. Lord Mount- ford, and the Lords Coleraine, with various other members of the House of Lords, were not only " Eccentrics," but were among the most THE ECCENTRICS. O regular in their attendance at the meetings of the society. Both the Sheridans were also "Eccentrics;" and few of the members, since the establishment of the society, have entered with so much spirit into its proceedings, as did Richard Brinsley Sheridan. It were an endless task to mention the names of celebrated authors who belonged to " The Eccentrics ;" while as regards the reporters for the daily press, twenty or thirty years ago, it would be impossible to name half-a-dozen of any note who were not " Eccentrics." A considerable number of the Parliamentary reporters for the morning papers still belong to the society. Among the gentle- men of distinction connected with the drama and the stage, who were for many years (and in several instances still are) members of the Eccentric Society, it may suffice to mention the names of Munden, the inimitable comedian; Master Betty, the Roscius of his day; Mr. Power, who perished with the President steamer; the late Mr. Yates, and Sheridan 6 THE ECCENTRICS. Knowles. Many of the present " Eccentrics " confidently assert, that at the formation of their society George the Fourth, then Prince of Wales, was one of their members. This, I am convinced, is a mistake. My opinion is, that if his Royal Highness ever attended any of their meetings, which is not unlikely, as his intimate friend. Major Hanger, was an " Eccentric " of the first water, — it must only have been in the capa- city of an honorary member. Of this I am certain, that his name is not to be found in the books of the society, which it must have been had he been formally initiated and duly recog- nized. The number of persons at present belonging to the Eccentric Society is about 200. The number that have belonged to it since its com- mencement is nearly 7000. Perhaps no other debating society — for such it may be considered — has produced an equal number of distin- guished speakers. The speaking that used to be heard at their meetings, when ^* The Eccen- THE ECCENTRICS. tries," twenty-five or thirty years ago, were in the zenith of their glory, is represented by those who were members at that period, and still live to tell the tale, as having surpassed, in elo- quence, brilliancy, and effect, anything they ever elsewhere heard. Among the eloquent " Eccen- trics " of the period referred to, there was a Mr. Brownley, a reporter on the " Times" paper, whose happiest oratorical efforts are said to have been almost superhuman. There must certainly have been something very extraordinary in them, when Sheridan was frequently heard to say, " I have heard a great deal of excellent , public speaking in my time, but I never heard anything at all approaching to that of Mr. Brownley." CHAPTER II. Cerepiony of initiating a member into the Eccentric Society — Joseph Jenkins' admission — Specimen of the trial of an " Eccentric," when a charge is preferred against him. The ceremony of initiation into tlie Society of Eccentrics, is usually very short and simple. A member proposes a candidate for admission, eulogising his character, and dwelling on his worthiness of the distinction at which he aspires. The motion is seconded by another member, who usually not only concurs in all that has been said by the preceding speaker, but has something additional, in the way of panegyric, to bestow on the candidate. The members then proceed to the ballot; and in the event of his election, which is all but absolutely certain, the THE ECCENTRICS. 9 candidate is called in, and informed by the chairman of his membership. He has an earnest of the character of the proceedings of the So- ciety afforded him, in the congratulatory address which the chairman makes to him. He is usually eulogized, to use the expression of an Irish orator among the lower classes, *' far beyond the fixed stars." He is assured, with the ut- most conceivable gravity of countenance and seeming sincerity of tone, that there is not a man in Christendom whose admission would have afforded " The Eccentrics " greater gratification. The possession of every virtue under heaven is ascribed to him. If he be at all known in lite- rary or professional pursuits of any kind, his fame is magnified ten thousand-fold. He is held up as the greatest of men in the depart- ment of literature, or in the profession, to which he belongs. If he be wholly unknown to public fame, he is endowed with talents of so lofty an order, that he cannot fail suddenly to burst forth, some day or other, in the social firma- b2 10 THE ECCENTRICS. ment, as a star of the first magnitude, — attract- ing all eyes to him, fixing public attention on his extraordinary gifts, and challenging, nay, commanding the unbounded admiration of the whole civilized world. Whatever may be the nature of his present profession, or contem- plated pursuits, pointed references are made to them. If he be a medical man, his knowledge of his profession is so profound, and his talents for investigation are so extraordinary, that many years shall not elapse before he will make dis- coveries that will throw those of Harvey and Jenner into the shade, and render him the greatest benefactor to his species which the world has ever produced. If the newly-admitted member be a military man, intending to devote his days and nights to the " art of arms," he is discovered to possess, in his very countenance, as well as in his mind, all the elements of dis- tinguished success on the battle-field. Had Napoleon been still alive, he would at once have discovered in the person of the newly-created THE ECCENTRICS. 11 *« Eccentric," a man destined to reach the very summit of martial promotion ; and whose deeds as a general will eclipse anything and every- thing which he (Napoleon) had ever achieved. The Duke of Wellington is alive, and were he aware of the indomitable courage, the fearless bravery, and the wondrous military skill of the newly-formed "Eccentric," his Grace would tremble, and well he might, for the laurels he has won on the field of battle. If a literary man, there is something in his finely developed forehead, and singularly intellectual counte- nance, which bespeaks an eventual eminence in the walks of literature, equal to any ever attained by any previous writer. There are in his capacious, intelligent, and masculine mind, the materials of works — to be laid in due time before the world — which will not only spread his fame from pole to pole during his lifetime, but which will transmit his name to the re- motest ages. His works will stand side by side with those of Shakspeare, Locke, and Milton, 12 THE ECCENTRICS. while the world lasts. And were the world, as some philosophers have fooHshly supposed, to last for ever, his productions would be co-eter- nal in their duration also. Such is the strain of extravagant eulogy in which newly-elected " Eccentrics" are in the habit of being addressed by the chairman for the even- ing, while the other members present intimate their concurrence in everything which he utters, by repeated cries of " Hear, hear," tapping on the table, clapping their hands, and so forth. Of course, the success of the joke — ^for such it is — depends entirely on the ingenuity which the chairman displays in the matter of his speech, and the tone of seeming sincerity in which it is delivered. The great point is, so far to practice a deception on the newly-made member as to persuade him, that not only does the chairman himself believe everything he says, but that he is expressing the imiversal sentiments and feel- ings of the " Eccentrics " present. And so adroitly does the chairman often perform his THE ECCENTRICS. 13 part, and so skilfully do the members perform theirs, that many, perhaps a majority of the newly-made members, retire from the ceremony of initiation, under a firm conviction that all tliat was said was uttered and responded to with perfect sincerity. Then the chairman concludes his speech, and declares the candidate a member. The latter returns thanks, pays his annual sub- scription of a sovereign, and has his name forth- with enrolled on the books as an "Eccentric." When Joseph Jenkins was admitted a mem- ber of the Eccentric Society, the gentleman who filled the chair for the evening, possessed, in a singular degree, the power of persuading others, that what he said, when speaking in the purest badinage, was perfectly sincere. He said that Joseph was not only professionally a lite- rary man, but prided himself — which cannot be predicated of all literary men — on his devotion to intellectual pursuits. He then launched out, in a remarkably skilful speech, into a high-wrought eulogium on the distin- 14 THE ECCENTRICS. guished intellectual attainments of his " friend, Mr. Joseph Jenkins ;" a man who, as all present were aware, had already, though young in years, produced a poem, entitled " The Universe," which was equal to the " Paradise Lost" of Milton, and which, though too sublime and lofty in its conceptions to be appreciated or even comprehended by the mass of mankind, would, as certainly as to-morrow's sun should run his wonted race, be, in the course of twenty or thirty years, as much read and admired and praised, as the grand epic poem which had just been named. — The prophetic sentiment of the chair- man was greeted by energetic cries of " Hear, hear," and a loud and universal rapping on the table, by all present. A crimson colour came over the countenance of Joseph; his cheeks burned with the intensity of his blushes. He believed that the chairman, though over-esti- mating his literary pretensions, was perfectly sincere in every syllable he uttered, and that not less hearty and honest was the response made to THE ECCENTRICS. 15 his eulogistic observations, by all the " Eccen- trics " present. He stammered forth an expres- sion of thanks for the " most flattering, much too flattering, way in which his humble name had been mentioned ;" assured the chairman and the company, that his feelings quite overpowered him (which was strictly true) ; and declared that that was the happiest hour of his life. Allusion has been made to the circumstance of formal trials of particular members taking place, other members having preferred some ridiculous charge against them. On the second occasion on which Joseph attended a meeting of " The Eccentrics," a Mr. Norman, who after- wards rose to considerable distinction, as a barrister in one of our distant colonies, pre- ferred a charge against a Mr^^truthers, lately the editor of a London paper of influence and reputation — to the effect, that the latter was seen on a particular day, walking along the Strand, arm-in-arm with a person of equivocal character, and still more disreputable appearance. Mr. 16 THE ECCENTRICS. Norman opened the case in a speech of great ingenuity and eloquence. The accused replied with equal eloquence and effect. He admitted that he was, on the day and at the place speci- fied, in the company of the party named, but denied that the party's character was equivocal, or his personal appearance wanting in respect- ability. He said it with all respect, but he said it with confidence, that there was not a gentleman present of more irreproachable cha- racter, while, as regarded his friend's person, it need not shrink any day — he said it without meaning to give offence — from a comparison with that of the party making the ground- less accusation. *' Here," said the chairman, after Mr. Struthers had resumed his seat, " we have the conflicting assertions of two gentlemen equally respectable. The only course left to us, in our efforts to arrive at the truth, is to " " To call witnesses," interposed an *' Eccen- tric." THE ECCENTRICS. 17 (( Precisely so," remarked the chairman. " Are you, Mr. Norman, in a condition to call witnesses in support of your charge ? " " I am, sir." *' And ready?" " Quite prepared, sir." " Well, then, call your first witness." Mr. Norman called Mr. Bradford. " Do you, Mr. Bradford," inquired Mr. Norman, " know Mr. Struthers, the party at the bar of this house ?" " I do, sir, unfortunately." " What do you mean," interposed the chair- man, " by using the word * unfortunately ? ' You don't mean to say, that Mr. Struthers is a man with whom any one need be ashamed to own acquaintance ? " " I said nothing on the subject, sir." " You don't, then, wish it to be understood that you mean it ? " " I would rather not express any opinion on the point." 18 THE ECCENTRICS. " Why, you know that he is a highly respect- able man." " I do not know that, sir. "Do you mean to say that you know any- thing to the contrary ? " " I do not mean to say anything one way or other." " Mr. Struthers is a most respectable man," pursued the chairman." " That is matter of opinion." " Proceed, Mr. Norman, if you please, with your examination of the witness," said the chairman. " Well, then, you saw Mr. Struthers on the day, and at the place in question, in the com- pany of a particular person ? " " I did." " You have declined to assert positively, that this person was a man of equivocal cha- racter." The witness nodded assent. " Have you any objection to express an THE ECCENTRICS. 19 opinion as to the character of Mr. Struthers' friend ? " ** None whatever.'' " Then, perhaps, you will be kind enough to tell the chairman and the other gentlemen pre- sent, what you think of the party in question." " I think that he is a person of no character at all ; and I have formed that opinion after all the information I have been able to obtain respecting him." " Really, sir," said Mr. Struthers, starting to his feet, and addressing himself, under great seeming excitement, to the chairman ; " really, sir, this matter is assuming a rather serious as- pect. I cannot sit still and see the character of my friend thus outrageously and unjustly as- sailed. Before the prosecutor proceeds farther in his examination of the witness, I must beg permission of you, sir, and the company, to put one or two cross questions to him." " You will be allowed, Mr. Struthers, to put any question to the witness you please; only 20 THE ECCENTRICS. you must wait until Mr. Norman has finished his examination." " I am done," remarked Mr. Norman. Mr. Struthers then proceeded — "You say that you have formed your very unfavourable opinion of the character of my friend, after all the information you have been able to obtain regarding it ? " " I do." '* And pray, sir, may I ask, have you obtained, in other words, do you possess any information at all, respecting the character of my friend ? " The witness hesitated. " You must answer my question, sir," pur- sued Mr. Struthers, " Again, I ask, have you obtained any information at all respecting the character of my friend ? If so, state the nature of the information, and the quarter whence obtained." The witness was still silent. " I a])peal to you, Mr. Chairman, to compel the witness to answer my question." THE ECCENTRICS. 21 " You must answer Mr. Struthers' question," said the chairman. The witness bowed. " I repeat my question once more — Have you obtained any information at all respecting the character of my friend ? " " No, I have not," drawled out the witness, amidst the laughter of the company. " Here, Mr. Chairman and gentlemen," cried Mr. Struthers, with an air of offended dignity, " here is a pretty person to give evidence against the character of any man ! I will ask him no farther questions." And Mr. Struthers resumed his seat, " Mr. Norman," suggested the chairman, " you brought a second charge against Mr. Struthers' friend, namely, that of being a man whose personal appearance was wanting in respectability. You have not spoken to that charge, nor brought forward any evidence in support of it. Are we, then, to consider that you have abandoned it ? " 22 THE ECCENTRICS. " Oh, no, by no means," said Mr. Norman, suddenly starting to his feet. " I am exceed- ingly obliged to you for reminding me of the circumstance : it was entirely an oversight. I repeat, and am prepared to prove, that the indi- vidual with whom Mr. Struthers was associating on the day in question, was grieviously wanting in respectability of personal appearance. Chairman. — State the grounds on which you rest the charge. Mr. Norman. — Why, sir, he was slovenly and coarsely dressed. Chairman. — That is too vague a way of expressing yourself. You must be more spe- cific. Mr. Norman. — Well then, his hat, which certainly did not cost more at first than four and ninepence (Laughter), was shorn of whatever quantity of pile it may have originally possessed, and contained, at least, half-a-dozen holes. An " Eccentric." — Was the party's hat the only defective article of his dress ? THE ECCENTRICS. Mr. Norman. — It was not: all the other portions of it were in perfect keeping with his chapeau. (Laughter.) His coat was thread- bare, and very clearly revealed his elbows ; his waistcoat was divested of several of its buttons ; while the anonymous portion of his apparel was in a state of deplorable dilapidation. An " Eccentric." — And his shirt, in what state was it ? Mr. Norman — Shirt! Why, he had none. {Roars of laughter.) "Really, Mr. Chairman and gentlemen," exclaimed Mr. Struthers, with great energy, as he suddenly sprang to his feet; "really, I must protest against this mode of procedure. How, I should like to know, has Mr. Norman come by the knowledge that my friend had no shirt ? " "Pray," said the chairman, "pray, Mr. Stru- thers, calm yourself, and allow Mr. Norman to proceed. You will have an opportunity, when he is done, of rebutting his charges, and reply- 24 THE ECCENTRICS. ing to him at any reasonable length you please." Mr. Struthers. — I surely have a right to ask him, at this stage of the proceedings, how he came by the knowledge that my friend had no shirt on him, when he saw us together. The Chairman. — You will have a right to put that or any other question to him after- wards, but not at the present time. Mr. Norman. — Oh, I have no objection, with your permission, Mr. Chairman, to answer it now. The Chairman. — Well, if you feel so dis- posed, you may. " And how, then, sir, I repeat," resumed Mr. Struthers, with considerable seeming warmth, "how did you come to the knowledge that my friend had no shirt on his person on the day alluded to ? " " Because," replied Mr. Norman, " I did not see any indication of it." (Laughter.) THE ECCENTRICS. 25 "Really, sir," said Mr. Struthers, "this is a most extraordinary mode of " " Are you done ? " interrupted the chairman, addressing Mr. Norman. "My case is closed," answered the latter, " unless Mr. Struthers, by denying the fact as to the shabby appearance of his friend, imposes on me the necessity of calling witnesses to sub- stantiate the accusation I have preferred." " I partly admit and partly deny the truth of Mr. Norman's charges," rejoined Mr. Struthers. " I admit at once that there were, and still are, holes in the hat (Loud laughter) of my friend ; but I deny that there are six holes, the number he stated, in his chapeau. I affirm that there are only ^i;e holes in it. (Roars of laughter). I further admit that his whole apparel was what is called * seedy;' but I fearlessly deny the degrading assertion so mendaciously made (Loud cries of * Order, order,' which were accompanied by a dignified rebuke from the chairman) respecting the alleged absence of a shirt from VOL. II. C 26 THE ECCENTRICS. the back of my friend. On what ground, Mr. Chairman, does Mr. Norman rest this grave accusation ? Why, on the fact of his not per- ceiving any evidences of my friend wearing a shirt. And, I ask — and I ask with the indig- nation which becomes the occasion — is a man to he stigmatised as shirtless; is that indignity alwaj's to attach to his fair fame ; is he, I repeat, or any other man, to be thus branded, merely because Mr. Norman, or Mr. Anybody- else, does not see, or choose to see, or, perhaps, by reason of an imperfect vision, cannot see, that very necessary article of apparel — I mean a shirt — on the person of my friend? Mr. Chairman and gentlemen, I do respectfully but most confidently submit, that such a doc- trine cannot be for a moment entertained in this respectable society. Were it to be re- ceived, no man among us would be safe. We should have Messrs. Normans starting up in scores to charge us with being shirtless. Is it for an instant to be admitted, that the non-per- THE ECCENTRICS. 27 ception of an object is a proof that no such object exists ? Only look to the consequences to which the admission of such a principle would lead you. Why, in that case, you are driven to the conclusion — you cannot help yourselves — that there is no such thing as wind ; for who, I should like to know, will be bold enough to stand up and declare in this room that he has seen the wind ? (Laughter and loud applause.) If any one were to make such an assertion, he would be held up to ridi- cule, and deservedly so, for the folly and false- hood — I beg pardon, gentlemen ; I retract the latter word — for the folly and the unfounded nature of the observation. Some men display their shirts one way, some another : it is all a matter of taste." "Yes," cried a voice in the corner of the room, " yes, but all who have them show them in some way or other. (Loud laughter.) The charge Mr. Norman brings against your friend is, that he had no shirt at all." ^8 THE ECCENTRICS. " That remains to be proved," remarked Mr. Struthers, tartly. " My argument is, that the absence of a shirt is by no means to be inferred from the circumstance of Mr. Norman not having seen it." "Well, did you see it yourself, Mr. Stru- thers ? " cried a voice in the body of the room. Mr. Struthers hesitated, and looked confused. " Pray answer the question," pursued the same voice. " It is an improper question, and I will not answer it," replied Mr. Struthers. " The question is a perfectly proper one," interposed the chairman, " and you are bound to answer it. The point in dispute is, whether or not a particular friend, with whom you were seen walking arm-in-arm on a certain day, wore a shirt at the time. The gentleman preferring the charge asserts that he did not. You, Mr. Struthers, deny the truth of the assertion. You maintain that the circumstance of his not see- ing any appearance of a shirt, is not to be held THE ECCENTRICS, 29 conclusive of the fact that he did not, at the time, wear on his person that very useful article. A member of this society, in the cen- tre of the room, now retorts, and asks whether, from your own knowledge and your own obser- vation, you can speak to the fact of your friend's having had a shirt on him on the day in ques- tion ; whether, in other words, you saw a shirt on his person at the period referred to. The question is a very proper one, and you are bound to answer it." " Well, then," said Mr. Struthers, quite crest- fallen, " I did not see a shirt on him that par- ticular day." (Roars of laughter.) The Chairman, in his capacity of judge, then summed up at considerable length. His charge to the " Eccentrics" present, all sitting in the charac- ter of jurymen, was in favour of the accused on the first count of the indictment, and against him on the second. The finding of the jury was to the same effect — namely, "Not Guilty" in reference to the equivocal character of Mr. 30 THE ECCENTRICS. Struthers' friend, but "Guilty" on the count which charged him with associating with an individual whose personal appearance was want- ing in respectability. Such is a specimen of the way in which the "Eccentrics" conduct what they call their jury cases. It is proper, however, to mention, that no description on paper can furnish anything like an adequate idea of the spirit and interest infused into their proceedings. The assembled company ; the chairman presiding as judge ; the accused, placed in a prominent part of the room ; the zeal manifested by the party charged and the party making the charge ; the elo- quence, the ability, the readiness, the wit, dis- played by those who take part in the pro- ceedings, conspire to clothe these proceedings with an interest of which it is impossible for those who have not been present at an " Eccen- tric " meeting, to form a conception. In fact, a stranger going into the room without be- ing previously aware of the character of the THE ECCENTRICS. 31 society, would fancy, from the seeming serious- ness, zeal, and earnestness of those taking part in the proceedings, that all he witnessed was as much a matter of reality as are the proceedings at the Old Bailey. And here it may be worthy of observation, that many of those who, within the last forty years, but especially during the first two decades of the present century, have risen to eminence at the English bar, or acquired a dis- tinguished reputation as extemporaneous public speakers were not only, as before remarked, members of the "Eccentric Society," but, in a great measure, owe their professional success, or oratorical fame, to their experience in im- promptu public speaking at its meetings. CHAPTER III. Deviations from the ordinary mode of initiating members into the Eccentric Society — Illustrations given. Of late years a change has, on several occa- sions, come over the spirit of the " Eccentrics." The proceedings on the introduction of a new member have, on the occasions to which we refer, been very different from what they pre- viously invariably were, and from what they usually still are. Formerly, on the initiation of a member, there was nothing but a little innocent banter at his expense; of late, how- ever, owing chiefly to an unhappy choice of a chairman for the evening, there have been several instances in which the introduction of a new member has been characterised by a species of banter degenerating into coarseness. THE ECCENTRICS. And as members, on their initiation, have a very imperfect conception of the practices of the society, the manner in which they are addressed and spoken of has often been likely to lead to unpleasant consequences. A fev7 years ago, Mr. Herring, recently arrived from Lanca- shire, and v^holly unacquainted with the mode of their procedure, wished to join the " Eccentrics." A friend undertook to introduce him, and to in- sure his election. They went together to the Sutherland Arms, May's Buildings. Scarcely had the candidate for membership taken his seat, which he had no right to do before he was elected, when the chairman for the evening, who personally knew him, said, in a tone of well- assumed and well-sustained seriousness, " I see a fellow of the name of Herring in the room. The presence of that person would be a disgrace to any company." Here Mr. Herring looked unutterably con- founded. An indescribable sensation came over him, suddenly depriving his eyes of their accus- c2 34 THE ECCENTRICS. tomed powers of vision, and his tongue of its wonted power of speech. All sense of con- sciousness left him for a moment. In a short time he so far recovered himself as to be able to inquire, in faltering accents, why he was thus insulted, " Insulted 1 " exclaimed the chairman, " That person insulted! The fellow has got no feel- ings ; he never had any : it were impossible to insult him. He has no more sense of honour than the table before me. He is not only unfit to associate with the members of such a respect- able society as this, but he is a discredit to the human species." " Hear, hear, hear ! " shouted the "Eccentrics" simultaneously, as if approving of every word which their chairman had uttered. " Really, gentlemen, — gentlemen, really this is," stammered Mr. Herring, " this is — it is cer- tainly — very unaccountable conduct. I don't, gentlemen, — gentlemen, I don't — at all under- stand this. It is to me most " THE ECCENTRICS, S5 (( Gentlemen," interrupted the chairman, " I cannot endure to hear a single syllable from the lips of so profligate a person as this. His voice is as odious to my ear as his appearance is to my eye and his character to my mind. There does not exist a more unredeemed villain. He is not even fit to associate v^ith felons. I therefore propose that he should be at once ejected from the room in the most uncere- monious manner." The confusion of Mr. Herring was increased. Could he credit the evidence of his eyes ? Did he see a body of men patiently listen to the application of such opprobious language to him, and not only listen to it, but not utter a word of disapprobation ? nay, more, by their counte- nances, intimate their approval of it ? " Mr. Taunton," shouted Mr. Herring, sud- denly summoning, in the desperation of the moment, an almost supernatural amount of energy ; " Mr. Taunton, you have uttered lan- guage for which I shall hold you responsible. 36 THE ECCENTRICS. You shall not, sir, thus grossly insult me with impunity. You shall hear more of this." Mr. Taunton suddenly rang the bell, and the waiter instantaneously responded to the sum- mons. " Do you know that person, John," pointing to Mr. Herring. " No, sir." '* I'm very glad you don't. If you had known him, and yet suffered so disgraceful a character to cross the threshold of this house, this society would either have insisted on your dismissal, or have for ever deserted this house and chosen some other place for its sittings." " Never saw him afore," remarked the waiter. " And I hope you never will again; you will be at no loss if you don't. At all events, we never must see him again in this place. You hear that, John." " Yes, sir." " And you'll attend to our wishes." '' I will, sir." f( f{ THE ECCENTRICS. 37 " Very good." The waiter was about to depart. " Stop, stop, John ; don't be in such a hurry. We have got some farther use for you." Very well, sir." You take that person there, and turn him out." *' P'raps the gentleman — " " The what," said the chairman. P'raps the gentleman will — *' Don't misapply the king's English, John, in so gross a manner. He has no more preten- sions to the character of a gentleman than a chimney-sweep with his soot-bags slung over his shoulder." " Then, sir, p'raps the individual will leave the room of his own accord, and not require my interference." " Oh, most certainly ; I'll leave it," said Mr. Herring, taking up his hat and quitting his seat; "but remember, Mr. Taunton, that I have not done with you yet.'* (( t( 38 THE ECCENTRICS. " Your threats, sir, I hold in as perfect con- tempt as yourself." Mr. Herring was in the act of quitting the room, when the friend who introduced him, and from whom (being unaccountably a silent spectator of all that was going on), he meant next morning to demand an explanation, — seized him by the arm, and told him that all that had passed was done in the spirit of pure eccen- tricity. It was the initiatory process. " It now only remains for me," continued the other, " formally to propose that my friend Mr. Her- ring be admitted a member of the society." The motion having been seconded, was carried unanimously amidst deafening acclamations. Mr. Taunton was the first to seize Mr. Herring by the hand, and welcome him into the brother- hood of the " Eccentrics." Many persons, especially young men recently settled in London, allow their names to be put in nomination as candidates for admission into "The Eccentrics," at the earnest request of THE ECCENTRICS. 39 friends. They consent to being proposed as members without, as just observed, having any definite ideas of the nature or proceedings of the society. They have some notions, from the very name of the society, that there must be something eccentric in its proceedings, but in what the eccentricity consists they have not the remotest idea. When such parties are first introduced, they are immeasurably amazed at the proceedings, whether they assume on the occasion a laudatory or abusive aspect. If commendatory, the party initiated is surprised or embarrassed in the highest degree, at finding himself so extravagantly eulogized that lan- guage seems to fail his brother " Eccentrics" in setting forth his wonderful merits. If, on the contrary, he is introduced on what is called the abusive principle — that is, by some charge being made against him as soon as he is elected — he is startled, if not confounded, at the boldness and recklessness with which he is denounced. In the latter class of introductions there have 40 THE ECCENTRICS. been many instances of a most ludicrous kind ; in some few there have been various escapes from unpleasant personal results, — the candidate assuming and clinging to the conviction that all the offensive observations that were made were the real sentiments of the speakers, and of the meeting also, inasmuch as they were applauded by all present. The most amusing scene which ever, perhaps, occurred from the candidate fancying that the abuse heaped upon him was seriously intended, took place many years ago, when Mr. Freeman, an Irishman newly arrived from Tipperary, was admitted. He bore in silence for some time the abuse and the invec- tives levelled against himself and his country, but evidently with feelings of strong indignation as well as astonishment. At last, unable any longer to control the emotions which agitated his bosom, he suddenly started up, and de- nounced the speaker as a liar and a scoundrel. "I appeal to you, Mr. Chairman," he added with great vehemence, " for protection from THE ECCENTRICS. 41 this ruffian conduct. Oh, sir, I could bear to be calumniated myself, but while the blood runs in my veins, I shall never sit in silence to hear my country insulted." The speaker resumed his speech, by begging the gentlemen present to take no notice of the interruption vv^hich had been caused by the can- didate for admission. ** He is unworthy of notice, as you are all aware, gentlemen. He has no pretensions to the character, and cer- tainly none of the manners, of a gentleman. He is" " Really, Mr. Chairman, " shouted Mr. Freeman, starting to his feet, and half bursting \7ith rage, " I cannot stand this. You say, sir," addressing himself to the speaker, " that I am no gentleman. Do you adhere to your words ? " The gentleman speaking took no notice of the interrogatory. " Then, sir," continued Mr. Freeman, " I hold you responsible. Here is my card j per- haps you will give me yours, sir ?" 42 .THE ECCENTRICS. A general laugh followed. " And I see, Mr. Chairman, that this com- pany also insults me by laughing at me." " It was only a smile ; not a laugh," remarked the chairman. " I maintain that it was a laugh, Mr. Chair- man," continued Mr. Freeman. Here the company laughed again. " Didn't you hear that laugh, Mr. Chairman ? The company have dared to laugh at me again ? " The chairman repeated his observation, that it was only a harmless smile, not a laugh. " Oh, sir, I am not to be desaved or hum- bugged in that way: it was a laugh, sir." A third laugh followed. "Is any gintleman," said Mr. Freeman, casting his eye, which flashed with indignation, around the room, " Is any gintleman so reckless of his life, as to put that laugh on paper?" Renewed roars of laughter followed. " Where am I, Mr. Chairman?" exclaimed Mr. Freeman, after gazing around him in evident THE ECCENTRICS. 43 amazement at the reception he was meeting with ; " Where am I, Mr. Chairman ? Sure, I must be among a band of thieves and ruf- fians." Loud cries of " Order, order," mingled with renewed roars of laughter, followed. " What gentleman," resumed Mr. Freeman, " dares to call me to order ? Will he hand me his card?" No response was made to Mr. Freeman's challenge. " If nobody will give me satisfaction with pistols," pursued Mr. Freeman, " will any man fight me with his fists ? " Another burst of laughter proceeded from all parts of the room. *' Mr. Chairman," said Mr. Freeman ; his countenance redolent of rage, and his attitude indicating that he was no novice in the doings of Donybrook ; " Mr. Chairman, if you allow a stranger to be insulted in this way, I must hold you responsible." 44 THE ECCENTRICS. And, as he spoke, Mr. Freeman threw off his coat, evidently resolved on having an immediate fight with some one. The friend, however, who introduced him, interfered* just in time to pre- vent a pugilistic exhibition, by explaining to him, that the whole affair was a mere joke, and one of very frequent occurrence on the intro- duction of new members. CHAPTER IV. " The Eccentrics " address Mr. Romeo Coates— Mr. Coates returns thanks — Concluding remarks on the ** Eccentrics." It is a rule of " The Eccentrics," that no per- son shall be admitted into their room, who is not a member. The only deviation from this rule, with which I am acquainted, was made about a quarter of a century ago. The circum- stances connected with it were very amusing. Those who know anything of metropolitan matters at that period, will remember the interest which the " eccentricity" of Mr. Coates — commonly called Romeo Coates — then occa- sioned in the public mini Among the other extraordinary whims which this singular indi- vidual — who, it ought to be mentioned, was a 46 THE ECCENTRICS. gentleman of fortune — was seized, was that of distinguishing himself as an actor. He accord- ingly appeared on the boards of Covent Garden, to the infinite amusement of the town, in seve- ral of the leading characters of our most popular dramatists. Romeo, in Shakspeare's tragedy of " Romeo and Juliet," was his favourite charac- ter ; and hence it was that he was nick-named " Romeo" Coates, — the name by which he is still known in Boulogne, where he has resided for many years, and where, it will be remem- bered, he contrived to obtain an interview with, and to elicit compliments from, Louis Philippe, when that monarch, a few years ago, visited that part of his dominions. The exhibitions of " Romeo " were so ludicrous, so outrageously absurd, so unlike anything that could ever have entered into the minds of the dramatists them- selves, or into the conception of anybody but " Romeo " himself, — that persons flocked to Covent Garden every night of his performance for the purpose of laughing at him. In one of THE ECCENTRICS. 47 his favourite parts, where the piece wound up with his murder, the audience, always in sheer ridicule — which, however, he mistook for the warmest admiration — encored the murder scene three or four times ; so that poor Romeo had to endure the terrors and suffer the pains of three or four murders, without the interval of a few minutes between them to give him time to breathe. On one occasion, when personating the character of the " gay Lothario " in the " Fair Penitent,*' he made a false step, and fell most awkardly on his back, his heels mounting high in the air. The audience were convulsed, with laughter, and some wicked wags encored that scene also. Then, again, whenever he had occasion to throw himself at the feet of the histrionic mistresses whom he adored, he deli- berately laid a snow-white cambric handker- chief, which he always had in readiness for the purpose previous to kneeling, — on the stage. The newspapers, one and all, feeling the 48 THE ECCENTRICS. legitimate drama to be brought into disrepute by the acting, if acting it might be called, of this modern Romeo, assailed and ridiculed him day after day. Still he persevered until he had gone the round of his favourite characters. Just as he had completed these, the idea oc- curred to some of the " Eccentrics," and was at once adopted by all, of voting an address of con- gratulation to him on the manner in which, as an actor, he had acquitted himself; and requesting him to visit their place of meeting on a given evening, for the purpose of receiving it. This he agreed to do. The muster of " Eccentrics," as might be expected, was unusually great on the occasion. Romeo was punctual to the time appointed. The chairman, as a matter of course, undertook to present the address ; and his speech was redolent of the badinage with which the address abounded. The latter hailed the advent to the boards of our national theatres of the greatest histrionic genius that had appeared since the days of Garrick. In THE ECCENTRICS. 49 Mr. Coates the " Eccentrics " saw the man that was destined to restore the legitimate drama to its wonted glory. Already all the other tragic actors were trembling, as well they might, for their popularity. The daily and weekly press was bribed by them to ridicule and assail their (the Eccentrics') illustrious visitor on that occa- sion. It was even confidently asserted, that John Kemble, conscious he could not stand a moment's comparison with Mr. Coates, actually contemplated an immediate retirement from the stage; and, as Mr. Kemble had not appeared on the boards of Covent Garden for some time, it was actually believed by many that he had already, mortified at the unparalleled success of his rival, abjured the histrionic profession, Mr. Coates had the merit of furnishing the metro- politan public, by his original mode of acting, with a variety of new and felicitous readings of Shakspeare. He had discovered meanings in sundry passages of that great dramatist's works which none had ever seen in them, before. Mr. VOL. II. D 50 THE ECCENTRICS. Coates could boast of histrionic triumphs never achieved by any other tragedian, however dis- tinguished. There was not another instance on record in which the party murdered played the murder scene with such signal success, as to draw down universal and deafening encores from all parts of the house. The " Eccentrics " therefore felt, in common with all lovers and appreciators of the legitimate drama, the deepest obligations to Mr. Coates ; and they could not, either in justice to him or to their own feelings, forbear taking that opportunity of expressing their sentiments in their collective capacity as " Eccentrics." The speech of the chairman, and the address of the " Eccentrics," were loudly cheered throughout, — Mr. Romeo Coates standing beside the chairman, and drinking in every sentence with ineffable delight, because he deemed the whole to be perfectly sincere. Mr. Romeo Coates rose to return thanks. " Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen," he proceeded THE ECCENTRICS. 51 to say, "never, I assure you, in the whole course of ray '* " Mr. Chairman," cried a voice from the farther end of the room, " Mr. Chairman, I am sure I only express the feelings of every " Eccentric " present, when I say that it would be the greatest intellectual loss we ever sus- tained should we miss a single observation of our illustrious visitor, in the speech he is about to make. (Loud cries of * Hear, hear ! ' in the midst of which Mr. Romeo Coates gracefully pressed his hand on his heart.) It would there- fore be a particular favour if our distinguished friend would raise his voice as much as he can, as some of us are here eighty feet distant from the spot whence he is about to address the meeting." Mr. Romeo Coates made a low bow, and proceeded, in ludicrously loud 'tones, to say — " This, Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen, is, I solemnly assure you, the happiest " " I am exceedingly sorry," interposed an LIBRARY UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 52 THE ECCENTRICS. "Eccentric" in a corner of the room, "again to interrupt the honourable gentleman ; but, for my own part, I am not only unwilling to lose a syllable of his eloquence, but it would be to me an infinite pleasure to see Mr. Coates while delivering his speech. And, gentlemen (here the speaker cast his eye significantly round the room) do not your bosoms heartily respond to the sentiment? Do not you share in the feeling ? " Deafening cries of " Yes, yes ! " burst from all parts of the room. " May I therefore," resumed the "Eccentric" in the corner, " take the liberty of expressing what I know is the universal feeling, that Mr. Coates would get upon the table, so that we may all have the pleasure of seeing as well as hearing him?" Romeo Coates mounted the table and made a low bow, amidst tremendous plaudits, his cam- bric handkerchief floating from his hand. "I was about to say, gentlemen," resumed THE ECCENTRICS. 5S Mr. Coates, "when so agreeably — for I will call it agreeably — ^interrupted by my friend in the right-hand corner, that this is the happiest day of my life. I am literally overwhelmed, confounded, paralysed by this unexpected dis- play of your kindness. Gentlemen, whatever may be my humble talents in the histrionic art, I am indebted for their development, and you, gentlemen, are indebted for whatever measure of gratification they have afibrded you, to the discernment of woman — ^lovely woman. (Thun- ders of applause.) I chanced one evening to be reading a brief poetical piece, of my own com- position, in the company of several ladies, when one of them remarked that my elocution was singularly chaste and effective. All present concurred in the opinion expressed by my lady friend. Cheered by their brilliant eyes, which spoke the admiration of their hearts, and by the music of the accents which proceeded from their lovely lips, I asked them whether they would like to hear me recite some of the 54 THE ECCENTRICS. favourite passages of Shakspeare. * Oh, do ! ' exclaimed one. * That will be so delicious ! ' cried a second. * Oh, I should like it above all things,' observed a third, her beautiful counte- nance lightening up vsdth the radiance of the ecstacy vv^hich reigned in her gentle bosom. (Deafening cheers,) In fine, gentlemen, there was no resisting applications made from such quarters. I acceded to their wishes (Loud applause), and so gratified were they with my recitations, that, ever and anon, a flock of snow- white handkerchiefs, waved by hands equally snow-white, were seen streaming in the air, while they filled the place with the fragrance which they emitted. (Renewed plaudits.) Tt was suggested by one lady of surpassing per- sonal charms, and distinguished intellectual attainments, that Nature had evidently meant me for the stage, and that, though rejoicing on my own account in my handsome independency, yet that, for the sake of the legitimate drama and its admirers — among which she classed THE ECCENTRICS. 55 herself — she could have wished that 1 had not been a gentleman of independent means, as, in that case, I should, doubtless, have made the his- trionic art my profession. * But what is to prevent,' interposed another lady ; ' what is to prevent Mr. Coates coming out, occasionally, on the boards of either of our national establish- ments, in the capacity of an amateur actor V ' Ay, to be sure,* exclaimed one of my fair friends. ' Oh, do, Mr. Coates ; there's a dear,' (Loud cheers), remarked a second of my lady friends; and the sentiment was echoed by every one present. The upshot of the matter vt&Sf that, unable to resist the urgent and unanimous prayers which proceeded from so many lovely lips, I consented. Hence my appearance on the boards of Covent Garden Theatre. Mr, Chairman and gentlemen — or, rather, allow me to call you by the endearing name of friends, (Loud cries of * Hear, hear.') Mr. Chairman and friends, I have thus frankly acquainted you with the 56 THE ECCENTRICS. circumstances under which I was led to make that appearance on the stage of which you have been pleased to express yourselves in such unqualified terms of approbation, that I feel your applause — on my conscience, gentlemen, I do — to be an infinite recompense for the calumny and ridicule with which a base, a hire- ling, a degraded press has attempted to load me. In fine, my friends, I owe, indirectly, the proud position in which I stand in your esteem this evening, to the accidental circum- stance of reciting, in the presence of a few ladies, the short piece of my own composition, to which I have referred. It only now remains for me to assure you " " Perhaps," said an " Eccentric," in the cen- tre of the room, interrupting Romeo, as he was on the eve of concluding ; " perhaps our dis- tinguished visitor would so far favour the com- pany, as to recite, before concluding, the piece which drew forth such warm applause from his lady friends, and the recitation of which has led THE ECCENTRICS. 57 to such important results to the legitimate drama, and proved the prelude to so much en- lightened enjoyment on the part of the public?*' '* I will^ gentlemen, with great pleasure," remarked Mr. Coates, " if I thought it would be agreeable to my friends around me." A peal of applause followed which made the room tremble again. The applause having eventually subsided, and silence being once more restored, Mr. Romeo Coates took out his cambric handkerchief, ap- plied it to his face, thrust the fingers of his left hand through the hair which luxuriated on the summit of his forehead, and, after the utterance of a few preliminary " hems," proceeded with the most extravagant gesticulation to deliver himself of the following lines : — ** This comes from one, my dear, my love, Whose fond aflfection fain would prove. For you and you alone ; Not one of all the female race Could wound my heart — disturb my peace, Till you the deed had done." d2 58 THE ECCENTRICS. Here the " Eccentrics" rose to their feet, and, by their voices, their hands, and their heels, greeted with the most enthusiastic applause ever perhaps offered to mortal, — the poetic effusion with which Mr. Coates had condescended to favour them. " The lines, gentlemen, are, you will observe, on the inexhaustible topic of love, and are sup- posed to be addressed to the mistress of my soul. (Renewed cheering.) I have only, my friends, to repeat the assurance I made to you in the outset of my imperfect address, that this is the happiest day of my life. I will carry the grateful recollection of it to my grave. Where- ever fortune may chance to cast my lot, thither the remembrance of this night of nights will accompany me ; and, instead of fading, it will, my bosom tells me, (here Mr. Coates empha- tically placed his hand on his breast), only grow more vivid as years roll over my head. Gentle- men, with sentiments of the profoundest gratitude for the distinguished and undying honour you 'iV<- THE ECCENTRICS. 59 have conferred on me, I wish you all fare- well." Mr. Coates descended from the table and quitted the room, amidst thunders of applause. It ought to have been before remarked, that the leading feature in the proceedings of the " Eccentrics," to which allusion has been re- peatedly made, namely, that of bringing ridicu- lous charges against each other, has, in some cases, been attended with very unpleasant con- sequences. If a charge be brought forward which the party put on his trial knows, in his own conscience, to be just, it is with very great difficulty that he can divest his mind of the conviction, that the party bringing it knew there was some foundation for it ; and, therefore, pre- ferred it for the purpose of personally annoying him. An instance of this occurred a few years ago, which excited great attention at the time, and was likely, to have been followed by very serious, if not fatal consequences. A mem- ber, on the spur of the moment, started up 60 THE ECCENTRICS. and charged another — an officer of rank in the army — with carrying his military notions into the privacies of domestic life. The party pre- ferring the charge, proceeded to say, that the accused was very fond of testing the efficacy of his views on the subject of discipline, by strik- ing his wife, and otherwise keeping her in a state of despotic controul ; so much so, that the Jady lived in constant terror of her life. Now it so happened, that every word of this was strictly true ; and what aggravated the awkward- ness of the matter was, that the fact of its being so was very generally known among the " Ec- centrics." The officer, instead of denying and disproving the charge in the spirit of innocent badinage in which it was brought forward, quitted the room, and immediately afterwards sent his accuser a challenge to meet him at Wimbledon Common on the following morn- ing. An explanation took place, the result of which was, that the officer was satisfied that the other was not even aware he was married. Of THE ECCENTRICS. 61 course, therefore, no duel took place, but the officer never afterwards entered the room : he abjured the " Eccentrics " for ever. The father of the " Eccentrics *' is Mr. Frank- lin, now in his ninety - fourth year. Mr. Franklin was, for a long period, editor of the " Morning Advertiser," but advanced age ren- dered it necessary that he should relinquish his connection with the press about fifteen years ago. Joseph Jenkins entered with heart and soul into the spirit of the " Eccentrics," and spent many of his evenings at their place of meeting. CHAPTER V. Resolves on a visit to Ramsgate — Embarks on board a steamer — The aspect of the river — The passengers — Inci- dents in the course of the voyage — Arrival. The practice of going out of town for a few weeks in the summer season, formerly peculiar to the aristocratic classes and a few of the fami- lies of the wealthier citizens, has, of late years, become general among the middle classes ; and not among them only, but among all persons who can spare the time and muster the few pounds requisite for the comfortable perform- ance of the journey to and from whatever place may be selected for the temporary visit. If at the West End, it would bring a species of dis- grace on any of the fashionables who reside in that aristocratic locality, to be seen in town in VISIT TO RAMSGATE. 6S the month of September ; so a person belong- ing to the middle classes, who could not be able by the month of October to say, that he had been at Gravesend, Heme Bay, Margate, or Ramsgate, or some other watering village or town " down the river," in either of the previous three months, could scarcely hold up his head among his acquaintances for the next nine months to come. All persons belonging to the literary depart- ment of the daily press, having their month's holiday every year, Joseph, instead of spending his as he had done on the three previous occa- sions, with the exception mentioned in the pre- vious volume, by taking lodgings at Hampstead or some other part of the suburbs, resolved on spending his month in the fifth year of his engagement as a parliamentary reporter, at Ramsgate, where he would at once be beyond the reach of metropolitan temptations, and enjoy the fresh invigorating breezes for wliich that watering-place is so justly celebrated. He ac- 64 VISIT TO RAMSGATE. cordingly started from London Bridge on a Saturday morning at nine o'clock, on his month's visit to Ramsgate. The weather being remarkably fine the vessel was well filled with passengers, all, like himself, intent on a Rams- gate holiday, of longer or shorter duration. Out of the 220 persons on board — for that Joseph, before the conclusion of the voyage ascertained to be the number — there was not a single clouded countenance to be seen. All were bent on pleasure, and all seemed resolved that it should not be their fault if they did not obtain the object of which they were in quest. Hus- bands confined to business during the week, were going to see and spend the Sunday with their wives, who had been breathing the Rams- gate air in a sort of widowed state. Fathers were panting to see their little pledges, as poets and novelists say, of connubial felicity ; and some were no less anxious to see their offspring who never knew aught, except in fancy or from works of fiction, of what matri- VISIT TO RAMSGATE. 65 monial happiness, so far as regarded the mother, meant. There were husbands and wives on board, who, though they had never suffered a day to pass for the previous twelve months without their matrimonial squabbles, if not something worse, — appeared to be fully agreed on a truce for the occasion. In fine, whatever may have been the individual or domestic state of affairs in the homes they had severally left, there was not one present that did not seem resolved that that at least should be a day of enjoyment. The bell, which gives intimation of the moment of departure, at length rang, and the steam, which had been making a very dis- agreeable noise for some minutes, as if very impatient to do its legitimate work, now began slowly to turn the wheels of the vessel. The latter promptly acknowledged the connexion between the machinery and itself, by starting gracefully though slowly on its destined voyage. Gradually the revolutions of the wheels became more and more rapid, until the vessel had at- 66 VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. tained her full speed. Beautiful was it to be- hold the spray which proceeded from the im- mediate neighbourhood of either paddle-box, and pleasing was it to witness the noble swell which the vessel left behind her as she threaded her way through the forests of ships and the crowd of skiffs and lighters and other nameless floating articles, which lay in motionless repose on Father Thames, or swiftly skimmed along his capacious bosom. On either side of " The Fame " — the name of the steamer destined to Ramsgate — were crowds of vessels from all coun- tries and climes in the civilized world. The aspect of the shipping was imposing in the extreme. It resembled a wooden city erected on a liquid foundation; and yet the wooden edifices resting on this watery basis, were as secure as the brick and mortar ranges of build- ings which lined either side of the river, and whose foundations were laid deep in the earth. As the Fame glided through the Pool, she met and passed numerous vessels bearing VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. 67 the flags of all nations, with their pennons streaming in the air. Some of the vessels were in full sail, just starting for every quarter and for the farthest corners of the globe. Others were returning, after long, eventful, and perilous voyages, from the most distant regions of the habitable earth. Some of the former were in all probability commencing a voyage which they were not destined ever to terminate, or rather which they were doomed to terminate by being suddenly engulphed in the ocean ; while some of the latter vessels had been menaced with that disastrous fate. In other words, the sailors and passengers in some of the outward bound, though they suspected it not, had a watery grave in reserve for them ; and the sailors and passengers in some of those which were just reaching their haven, had nar- rowly escaped being consigned to a final resting- place at the bottom of " the deep, deep sea." These and other reflections of a similar nature passed through the mind of Joseph Jenkins, 68 VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. who, as will have been inferred from what was said of him in the outset of the work, was a person who could not witness such a scene as that which the river usually presents, without abandoning himself to a train of moral medita- tions. By this time all on board the vessel, who had previously known each other, and had un- expectedly met on this occasion, had inter- changed the usual inquiries and courtesies. Many there were who had not a single ac- quaintance on board. But, as will always in similar circumstances be found to be the case, most of the unknowing and unknown soon met with some person or other with whom to form an acquaintance for the occasion, without the formality of an introduction. In travelling, whether by land or water, in stage coaches or steam vessels, people display a wonderful facility for entering into conversation together. Every- one who has had occasion to travel, must have been struck with this. There are often, too, a VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. 69 freedom and absence of reserve in the temporary intimacies thus suddenly formed, which are not always to be met with in those acquaintance- ships which are the result of formal introduc- tions in society. By the time the steamer reached Gravesend, most of those on board had got into familiar conversation with some fellow-passenger or other. Those, of course, who had been pre- viously acquainted, found no lack of materials for agreeable confabulation, nor any need of contracting new acquaintances. About four- teen or fifteen out of the 220 on board, were all that chose to " keep themselves to themselves," studiously avoiding all intercourse with their fellow-passengers, and preferring — miserable taste ! — to continue in a state of practical soli- tude though in the midst of such agreeable society. The cause of this may, doubtless, in some cases, have been an irresistible tendency to con- stitutional reserve ; but it needed not the ghost 70 VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. of Lavater to tell, that in the case of other passengers — at least, with regard to five or six of the number — the reason of their reserve was to be sought for in an intolerable conceit, which led them to fancy themselves superior to any- body else. They would have deemed it dero- gatory to their imaginary dignity to enter into conversation with, or, indeed, to take, in any way, the slightest notice of any one on board. Among those whose demeanour must have made every one present assign them a place in this category, were two young ladies, rejoicing in the name of Baboon, and a Celtic personage, name unknown, but whose half Highland cos- tume, coupled with the circumstance of his cranium being surmounted by the kind of bonnet worn by the Glengarry clan, procured him, from all on board, the sobriquet of Glen- garry. The Misses Baboon, who were escorted by a young fop of a brother, were interesting specimens of the fine lady-species. So long as the vessel was in smooth water they walked the VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. 71 deck, when they had occasion, or took occasion to move from one place to another, as if they had been treading on a sheet of hot iron. Their heels seemed quite superfluous articles ; it was, indeed, difficult to conceive for what purpose that portion of the human foot was given them. They extended their patronage exclusively to the remoter extremity of their feet as they trod, or rather tripped, along the deck. It seemed as if they had felt that it was quite a vulgar thing to put foot on the deck at all, — only it was a necessity they could not help. Though when walking they had often to thread their way through the crowd, and when sitting had scarcely room to move their precious persons, they so contrived to look and to demean them- selves, as if not conscious that a human being other than themselves and their foppish brother, was on board. And yet their fantastically smart dresses, in conjunction with the extra- ordinary airs they gave themselves, attracted the eyes of the other passengers much more 72 VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. to them than to any other person in the vessel. Everything went on as smoothly as the most Cockney sailor could have wished, until the Fame had passed the Nore three or four miles. Then a breeze suddenly began to spring up, the water to become rough, and the vessel to pitch and plunge, as if she were quite un- decided as to whether she ought to go down head-foremost to the bottom, or, by capsizing, fling all on board into the sea, leaving them to sink or swim, just as they might feel inclined. The women shrieked, and some of the less experienced of the men looked anything but pleased with their prospects of personal safety. Nor was a feeling of fear the only effect pro- duced by the unmannerly motions of the Pame. It was edifying to see with what, suddenness appetites vanished, which but a few minutes before were so voracious that one would have supposed that all the cattle in Smithfield market, including sheep and pigs to the bar- VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. 73 gain, would scarcely have sufficed to furnish them with a sufficient meal. Sandwiches, which but a moment before were in great request, were now at a discount. Cold lamb, which a few seconds previously had been torn from the baskets of the women, unrolled with indecent haste, and which was in the act of being eaten, or munched rather, without the assistance of knife or fork, — all at once acquired such a hideous aspect as to cause the countenance to turn pale, and the very stomach to rise up in open insurrection at the sight of it. Even Gui- ness' stout, which but five minutes ago was in such brisk demand that the waiter began to have serious apprehensions Jest his stock of that favourite liquid, unusually ample though it was, would be insufficient for the emergency, — even this popular description of porter suddenly lost all its palatable pretensions, and became as nauseous to the taste, and as odious to the eye, as that proverbially hateful medical mixture known by the name of black draught. Sand- VOL. II. E 74 VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. wiches, cold meat, bread and cheese, ale and porter, in all their varieties — everything, in short, solid or liquid, usually eaten or drank, were strewed on the seats of the vessel in all directions, not only untouched, but abhorred by the proprietors. Here and there, to be sure, was to be seen some happy person, — on the prin- ciple, I suppose, that there are exceptions to every rule, — never subject to sea-sickness, whose appetite seemed only to be \vhetted by every fresh roll or lurch which the vessel gave. " Shocking brutes," exclaimed some of the women, at those intervals when they were able to make any exclamation at all — " Shocking brutes, to be eating when everybody else is so ill ! " And there is no denying that it was in the worst of taste. But what will not some people do ? The roughness of the sea increased, and with that roughness came the usual consequences. Baskets were upset, and tumblers tumbled in all directions along the deck — their contents, in VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. 75 most cases, politely following their example, though usually at a more lazy pace. Streams of brandy and beer, having their sources in different parts of the vessel, met and embraced each other in the most affectionate manner, and formed a new species of " half-and-half." Scores of the passengers, men and women in pretty equal proportions, were seen strewed in all directions, some in a horizontal, and others in a reclining position. Those who had hitherto successfully striven with the demon of sea-sick- ness, seemed as if they had been, one and all, suddenly seized with a fit of intoxication, brought on by previous undue libations of in- ebriating liquors. They reeled and staggered along the deck, and not unfrequently fell in very awkward postures, and under very awk- ward circumstances. At times it seemed, in- deed, as if those untouched by the evil genius of sea-sickness, had been simultaneously seized with an unaccountable whim to dance some newly-discovered Highland reel, in which all 76 VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. the rules of order and regularity should be set at systematic defiance. Old and young, male and female, the lively and demure, appeared to be equally the creatures of this extraordinary motion, when the vessel thought proper to be particularly funny in the way of plunging and rocking. It would have been well had the Fame, contented herself with carrying her freaks thus far. But no : imitating, we suppose, in her humble way, the conduct of the Marquis of Waterford, and various others who delight in ludicrous mischief, the Fame, on one particular occasion, raised her bowsprit as high in the air as if she had fully resolved to leap out of her watery element altogether and to start on an upward voyage in the direction of the moon. In a moment, again, as if suddenly changing her mind, and forming a resolution to commit the double crime of suicide and the murder of all on board, she commenced a terrific rocking from side to side, converting into so many mere playthings those of her passengers who VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. 77 were still able to retain their perpendicular position, and rudely tossing about those who were strewed in all directions on forms, or were lying half buried amongst the sails and luggage that lay on deck. Persons cordially, or at least firmly, clasped each other in their arms, who but a moment before would have shrank from and sickened at the idea of contact. An old maid of at least three score and ten, very prudish and very primly dressed, was thrown, without a word of introduction or being even allowed a moment for a preliminary nod, into the arms of a mustachoed dandy of twenty, who was engaged at the time in the gentlemanly occupation of energetically puffing a cigar ; and, to aggravate the disaster, both fell, closely locked in each others' embraces, prostrate on the deck, — the head-gear of the venerable lady being, by the fall, thrown into a state of grievous disorder. Within a few yards of the spot which was the scene of this untoward occurrence, another, scarcely less serious to one 78 VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. of the parties, took place. One of the ugliest- looking fellows in Christendom, six feet in height, with a circumference, or, as an alder- man would say, a corporation, which would have vied with that of the celebrated Daniel Lambert, was flung, as if he had been as light as a feather, into the lap of one of the Misses Baboon. Both young ladies first shrieked and afterwards fainted. The indignant brother started to his feet, and looked the intruder fiercely in the face, as he sought to regain his perpendicular position ; but, on surveying his colossal proportions more carefully, the fit of valour with which the youthful fop had, in the first instance, been evidently seized, suddenly evaporated, and he resumed his seat in sullen silence. — "Mercy on us, we shall all be drownded ! " groaned a venerable matron, the wife of a green- grocer "in a small way of busi- ness," as she was sent staggering from one part of the deck to another. " Shall we, ma ? " eagerly inquired a little boy, standing hard by VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. 79 in his mother's hand. " Ma " was too much terrified to return any answer to the question which the child, in the innocence of its little heart, put to her, evidently without having any idea of what drowning meant. The sea continued to increase in roughness, and the vessel, as a matter of course, to rock and lurch with proportionate frequency. The effects of this, in the production of that most nauseous of all sensations, sea-sickness, soon became apparent to all — to the great majority in their painful experience, and to the remain- der through means of their eyes and ears. Sea-sickness is a horrible sensation. It is, perhaps, the most unpleasant that humanity is subject to. No one that has ever experienced it, would, at the moment of its greatest ascend- ancy, have the slightest objection to be tossed overboard. It is also a most powerful sensation: it prostrates a giant as easily as it conquers a child. Hercules himself would have been no more in its hands, than would a person in the 80 VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. last stage of the most enfeebling disease to which humanity is incident. It renders its victims utterly helpless ; it reduces them to a state of entire prostration. Scarcely more unable is the new-born infant to assist itself, than is the per- son who is thoroughly sick at sea. Sea-sickness is a rank republican ; it levels all the distinc- tions which exist in society ; it reduces all classes to a perfect equality during the period of its ascendancy. Just glance your eye along the line of heads hanging over the side of the vessel, and the probability is, that you see the head of the nobleman and that of his lacquey in close juxta-position. Down in the cabin there are Lady Something and her maid; but as the first is not in a condition to exact any homage, nor the second to offer it, you will find it a very puzzling point to say which is the lady and which the maid. Sea-sickness does away with etiquette. Persons who on other occasions, are pinks of politeness, are re- duced by half-a-dozen of those peculiar qualms, VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. 81 by which sea-sickness is always ushered in, to the practice of a primitive simplicity of man- ners. Even the greatest prude to be met with, is compelled to dispense with her starchness and stilts, and exhibits as little affectation as the unsophisticated village girl. But this is a digression, — though most per- sons, it is believed, will feel disposed to pardon the author for indulging in it. On the Fame, there was a band of musicians, who, being ac- customed to the sea, were strangers to the sensation which was prostrating its victims all around. They continued their strains until there was scarcely a score of persons in a con- dition to hear them. Not wishing thus to waste their melody, or to allow the happy few to enjoy a monopoly of it, they suddenly and simulta- neously struck in the midst of an air which would have charmed the ear of Apollo himself. Two young fellows, about sixteen or seven- teen years of age, who had, doubtless, studied the art of reciting with great care, and who, in 82 VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. the more tragic pieces, had clearly taken Mr. Macready for their model, had " favoured the company" with several specimens when in smooth water, which gave so much satisfaction as not only to draw down loud plaudits, but, what they no doubt considered much better, to draw out of the pockets of the audience a con- siderable number of pence. Encouraged by their past success, the recitative youths deter- mined on treating such of the company as were in a condition to listen, to a few more " speci- mens of the works of the most popular poets," notwithstanding the roughness of the sea and the heaving of the vessel. Hamlet's celebrated soliloquy was the piece chosen to recommence with ; and he whose turn it was to spout, began with great spirit, and with more than the usual amount and variety of theatrical attitudes ; — " To be, or not to be — that is the question, Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer The stings and arrows of outrageous fortune, Or to take arms against a sea of troubles, And, by opposing, end them" VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. 83 " The sea of troubles," instead of being ended by the unfortunate spouter, summarily ended him; for, while in the act of mouthing the next word, he was seized with a qualm which af- forded him a premonition of what was coming, just in time to enable him to reach the side of the vessel, whence, instead of his recent audience, he began addressing the sea. His brother reciter, pained to think that the audience, which was select though small, should be de- prived of the remainder of Hamlet's meditations, nobly resolved on finishing the piece which the other had begun. He, accordingly, after an explanatory and apologistic word or two, com- menced with all the solemnity and emphasis becoming the piece. - " To die, — to sleep, — No more ; — and, by a sleep, to say we end The heart-ach, and the thousand natural shocks That flesh is heir to, — 'tis a consummation Devoutly to be wish'd. To die, — to sleep ; — To sleep ! perchance to dream ; — ay, there's the rub ; For in that sleep of death what dreams may come. When we have shuffled off" this mortal coil, 84 VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. Must give us pause : there's the respect, That makes calamity of so long life : For who would bear the whips and scorns of time The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely, The pangs of despis'd love, the law's delay, The insolence of office, and the spurns That patient merit of the unworthy takes, When he himself might his quietus make With a bare bodkin ? who would fardels bear, To grunt and sweat under a weary life ; But that the dread of something after death, — The undiscover'd country, from whose bourn No traveller returns — puzzles the will ; And makes us rather bear the ills we have, Than fly to others that we know not of? Thus conscience does make cowards of us all ; And thus the native hue of resolution Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of " Here the reciter's face suddenly became *' sicklied o'er with the pale cast of" sea-sickness, and, without uttering another word, he hurried away, without any apology to his audience, to join his colleague in the new species of spouting in which he had been for a few minutes engaged. The recitation of Hamlet's soliloquy was not resumed the remainder of the voyage; and, for aught I know, remains in the same unfinished VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. 85 state till the present hour, and most probably will do so till the crack of doom. But among all the instances of sea-sickness which occurred, none excited such general regret as that of a venerable-looking man, who, while the other passengers during the smooth-water part of the voyage, were engaged in lively con- versation, or in feasting their vision with the beau- tiful scenery on the banks of the river, — occupied himself in the praise- worthy work of circulating religious tracts. He persisted, with the self- denial of a martyr, in his useful employment, even after his pale face and the heavy expres- sion of his eye, told but too plainly of the "queerish" condition in which his stomach was. Eventually, however, he, like most of his fellow- passengers, also found himself engaged in an unequal contest. Sea-sickness triumphed. When in the act of picking out from a large assort- ment, what he deemed a suitable tract for a person whose demeanour from the time the Fame quitted London Bridge till that moment, indi- 86 VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. cated the absence of every moral feeling, — the worthy man was seized with symptoms which compelled him suddenly to withdraw his atten- tions from one who so much needed the pious counsels of the tract intended for him, and to transfer them to the side of the vessel. He, however, soon recovered, and resumed his com> mendable labours, just as if they had expe- rienced no intermission. Of all the scenes of sea-sickness, which up to this moment had been exhibited on board, the one most calculated to excite the risible faculties of those who had escaped the terrible infliction, occurred in the case of a little broad- built, as well as broad-brimmed Quaker, whose countenance was the very incarnation of meek- ness. He was a zealous tee-to taller, and dur- ing the voyage had, without one moment's intermission, performed the part of an apostle in the cause of total abstinence. There was not a vice in the universe,— for the scope of his observations was not confined to our planet, — VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. 87 which he did not, and possibly with great jus- tice, ascribe to an undue familiarity with the bottle. He attacked all the bottles alike : " black " bottles and crystal came equally under his unsparing lash. Equally free, fearless, and impartial, were the remarks he directed against liquids of all kinds, — always, of course, except- ing the liquid which springs out of the bowels of the earth. Wine, whiskey, brandy, rum, gin, ale, porter, stout, bottled and unbottled, came all in turn under his sweeping condemna- tion. They were denounced, and, undoubt- edly, with much justice, — as the enemies of religion, of morals, of social enjoyment, of do- mestic happiness; of, in fine, the human race. And in exactly the same proportion in which " our friend of the broad-brim" — for so he was generally called in the vessel — was eloquent in his denunciations of all spirituous liquors, was he lavish, and indeed poetic, in his praises of the transcendant virtues of water. He ran over, with wonderful fluency and faci- 88 VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. lity, the many moral, social, and intellectual triumphs which had been achieved by an aban- donment of the contents of black, blue, crystal, and all other bottles, in favour of the liquid which was extracted in its native state from the flowing fountain or the running stream. Water, indeed, was the panacea for all the evils under the sun. It was the universal remedy for the complicated diseases to which the human body is incident — a remedy so long sought for and so much talked of by philosophers, but never before discovered. It made man cheerful and happy, as all those could testify who, like himself, drank nothing else. And here the apostle of total abstinence gave a significant self-complacent look at his own comfortable little body. "It will cure," he resumed, " every evil." "Will it cure sea-sickness?" interrupted Joseph Jenkins, who was one of the fortunate few who still continued to keep the terrible visitation at bay. " Because if it will," con- VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. 89 tinued Joseph in the spirit of ridicule, *4t will be very useful now." " I cannot," replied the Quaker, " venture positively to say, never having seen its merits tested exactly in that way. But this I know, that it is an excellent preventative against sea- sickness, or any other sickness." " Is it an infallible preventative ? " said Joseph. "I cannot go quite so far as to say that, friend ; but I believe there is none better." " Do you speak from experience ? " " I do, friend. Dost thou not see me quite free from sea-sickness, while so many around us are suffering severely from that unpleasant sen- sation." There was no denying the premises, whatever opinion might happen to be entertained as to the justness of the conclusion. Undoubtedly the little " Friend " stood before them without a symptom of the malady which had committed such terrible havoc among his fellow-passengers. 90 VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. "And you ascribe your exemption from the prevailing evil, to your abstinence from spirituous liquors ?" observed Joseph. " I do, friend ; and not without reason. If there had been less porter and spirits drank on board, there would not have been so many suf- ferers as we see around us." " I have drank a quantity of stout," con- tinued Joseph ; " and yet I feel no tendency to sea-sickness." " Thy time is coming, friend, I doubt not/' observed Obadiah. " Wilt thou allow me to offer thee,", he continued, " a small tract?" " Certainly," said Joseph, putting out his hand and receiving the tract on temperance. " I am much obliged to you for it." " It is well worthy thy pe " Here the Quaker abruptly broke off, his countenance being suddenly overcast with a sickly paleness. As if struggling to conquer some queer internal rising, evidently struggling for the mastery, he again, after the lapse of a VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. 91 few seconds, made a noble effort to finish his sentence. " I was going to say, friend, that the tract is well worthy of thy most careful perus " The sentence remains unfinished till this day, though the reader will be at no loss to supply the omission ; only the two letters *' al " being necessary for the purpose. The Quaker un- ceremoniously forsook his few auditors, and hurried to the nearest part of the vessel which enabled him to communicate with the sea. After the apostle of total abstinence had slightly recovered from the violent attack with which he had been so suddenly and so unfor- tunately seized — unfortunately, inasmuch as it in one instant demolished a favourite hypothesis, — Joseph advanced to him, and suggested a little brandy as likely to have a beneficial efiect in quelling the turbulence reigning in his stomach. The Quaker, not yet able to speak, shook his head, beckoned the suggestion away with his hand, and made other significant signs that he 92 VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. was horrified at the proposal to open his mouth for the reception of a '* deadly enemy." " You had better let me fetch you a very little drop of brandy," pursued Joseph. " No, no, friend," stammered the Quaker, now so far recovered as to be able to articulate. " William, bring me a glass of Cognac ;" said Joseph, addressing himself to the waiter, who chanced to be passing at the time. "Yes, sir." "And bring it this moment." " Yes, sir." And assuredly it w^as brought with an expedi- tion that would have been sufficient to establish for life William's character for despatch. " I am sorry to see you so ill," remarked Joseph, advancing with the glass of brandy in his hand to the quondam apostle of teetotalism, who had now resumed an upright posture. "Just do take a little brandy, it will do you good." "Poison, poison," replied the Quaker, mo- tioning the brandy away from his sight. VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. 93 He had scarcely uttered the words, when in- stantaneously assailed by another internal in- surrection, he turned about, and sprang with such force to the side of the vessel that he narrowly escaped falling overboard. " Do, I intreat you, be advised to take a little brandy," resumed Joseph, as the excellent, though perhaps over-zealous little man was slightly recovering a second time from the sea- sickness. " Dost thou mean, friend, medicinally,'* said the Quaker in plaintive tones, and with a wo- fully blanched and lugubrious countenance. " In any way you please." " One may take a little medicinally," pur- sued the Quaker, looking eagerly at the con- tents of the glass which Joseph held so in- vitingly in his hand. " Very good ; then take it medicinally if you prefer it; only take it some way or other," said Joseph. The Quaker put out his tremulous hand to 94 VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. receive the glass, — the tremour being, doubtless, caused by the conjoint operation of the sea- sickness and the unpleasant reflection that he had thus been compelled to falsify to a certain extent the total abstinence principles which he had so zealously been inculcating all the day. He inverted the glass with all the grace and dex- terity of an experienced tippler, though there could be no doubt that he was at home an un- exceptionable teetotaller, " Do you not feel much better for the brandy ? " inquired Joseph, a few seconds after the contents of the glass had found their way down the Quaker's throat. " Thank thee, I think I am, friend." " I thought so ; I was sure the brandy would have that effect," remarked Joseph. The Quaker entirely recovered in a few minutes, carefully tied up his temperance tracts, retired into the cabin, and did not again make his appearance on deck till the vessel reached Ramsgate. VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. 95 So very sudden, in the case of many people, is the recovery from sea-sickness, that it is almost as instantaneous as the attack. By this time a considerable number of those who had been laid prostrate by its powerful hand, had got entirely rid of the sensation. "Richard," John, and James ; Mary, Matilda, Letitia, &c,, were seve- rally " themselves again ;" while a great many more were clearly in a state of convalescence. Onward went the Fame, laughing at and leaving far behind scores of lazy craft, small and great, which she overtook on the way. In the mean- while, among the few who had hitherto kept the demon of sea-sickness at a proper distance, were our old acquaintances Glengarry, aild Mr. and the Misses Baboon. They had looked through- out with evident contempt, unmingled with a morsel of pity, on the unfortunate persons they saw suffering around them. Glengarry con- tinued to pace the deck with all the fancied dignity and self-consequence which had marked his demeanour from the first ; while the Misses 96 VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. Baboon alternately sat and moved about, turn- ing up the anonymous organ of their faces, and seeming quite shocked when their eye encoun- tered any person who had been seized with the prevailing malady. " I think, love, we had better sit down here a little," said Miss Lucy Baboon to her sister. Miss Jemima, pointing to an unoccupied form which stood before them in the centre of the vessel. " I think so, too, dear," said Lucy ; " for we have been walking some time." " Frederick, we are going to sit down ;" said Jemima, addressing herself to the five-feet-nine of affectation and dandyism, which both ladies concurred in dignifying with the name of brother. " Va-ey well " (very well), said the fop, gently pressing between his fore finger and thumb a stunted mustachio which vegetated on his upper lip. " Had not you better sit down, Frederick," VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. 97 suggested Miss Lucy, making room for him between her sister and herself. " I do'ant mand thoa 1 do," replied the other, condescending to be seated as he spoke, and tapping the edge of his boot with a light smart cane which he sported on the occasion. " We'll soon be at Ramsgate, won't we ?" in- quired Miss Jemima. " Woy, yes we shall, by and by," replied Mr. Frederick, muttering the words in a way of which no idea can be given on paper. " How long will it be ? " inquired Miss Lucy. " Woy, T should think not more than an hour and a half." "La! will it be that time yet?" observed Miss Jemima, somewhat pettishly. " I believe it will, love, be about that time," replied the young swell. " Suppose we sit down here," said a young woman, with an infant in her arms, addressing herself to her husband, and seating herself by the side of Miss Jemima Baboon. VOL. II. F 98 VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. " Very good," replied the husband, also young in years. And he sat down, as a husband ought to do, beside his wife, to whom it was afterwards ascertained he had only been married twelve months. "Is it not wonderful, as well as fortunate," he remarked, after a minute's silence, " that we have not been a bit sick all the way ? " "It is, indeed, very surprising and very lucky," answered the other. About two minutes passed without a word being exchanged between the married couple. What could be the meaning of this? Could they have been seized with some sudden, un- accountable fit of dislike to each other ? There was not time to form an opinion on the point, when the husband cleared up the mystery of the matter, — so far as his silence was con- cerned. With the rapidity of lightning he leaped from the side of his wife, and ranged himself among those whose heads were hanging over the vessel. He had scarcely reached his % VISIT TO RAMSGATE. 99 new destination — one which he had been fondly flattering himself he should entirely avoid — when his wife, springing to her feet, and throw- ing her child into the arms of Mr. Frederick Baboon, was instantly side by side with her husband, taking part with him in the un- pleasant occupation in which he was engaged, — thus affording a remarkable illustration of the popular hypothesis touching the strong sympa- thies which exist between husband and wife. Mr. Frederick Baboon shrunk back aghast on the reception of the unexpected gift. Had the infant dropped from the clouds, he could not have been a whit more amazed. Miss Jemima shrieked aloud, and Miss Lucy swooned, as they saw the little charge so suddenly con- fided to their brother. After a few seconds of unutterable confusion, which afforded the rest of the passengers, now nearly all recovered, infinite amusement, Mr.- Frederick Baboon looked imploringly first towards one sister and then another, as if 100 VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. silently seeking their assistance in so painful an emergency. Miss Jemima was still gasping with affright, while Miss Lucy had not yet thought proper to recover from her swoon. " What am I to do with this ba-aby ?" Mr. Frederick at last piteously inquired, at any one who might please to answer the question, — glancing an irrisistibly lugubrious look at the innocent charge, which he held most ungrace- fully in his arms. No one responded to his appeal. Again, after the lapse of a few seconds, he looked around for help. He looked in vain ; no help came. On the contrary, all who were in a con- dition to enjoy the amusing scene laughed heartily, some immoderately, at the ridiculous appearance which the dandy made. " What was to be done ? " Ay, what was to be done, would have been the answer of echo, if there were any echo at sea. There Mr. Frede- rick sat, still holding the innocent cause of his distress in the most clumsy manner, and VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. 101 looking fifty times worse than a condemned criminal at the Old Bailey. Never was human being placed in a more ludicrous plight ; never did man cut a more ridiculous figure. At last he turned to sister the first — "Jemima, dear." Miss Jemima had not yet recovered her breath, and made no response. Next he turned to sister the second — "Lucy, love." Lucy was equally deaf to his appeal. She was still partially, or pretended to be so, under the influence of her swoon. Again the question recurred — "What was to be done ? " Mr. Baboon had, at one time thoughts of laying the innocent babe down on the deck, and leaving it to its fate ; but then it occurred to him, that that might prove a rather perilous mode of getting rid of his unoffending charge ; for the probability was, that the whole company would unite in their execrations of so barbarous an act. Of course the objections to throwing it overboard were still more ortho- 102 VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. dox ; for there was a very strong probability that, if he were to get rid of his " incumbrance" in that way, he himself, provided he escaped the less summary punishment of being torn to pieces on the instant, would be forthwith sent after it. And even supposing the passengers could have so far restrained themselves as to visit him with neither punishment, there were visions of coroner's inquests and Old Bailey proceedings, which would not have been with- out their effect in preventing his adoption of so unfeeling a course. At this critical moment, and when as perplexed as ever, the little inno- cent's mamma had so far recovered as to be able to take charge of it herself. She advanced to Mr. Baboon, took the infant from his arms, and thanked him for his attentions to it. Attentions! Simple woman! She knew no better. She had been so ill herself that she knew nothing of the attentions or zw-attentions which her lovely babe had received. Mr. Baboon breathed more freejy when relieved VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. 103 of his charge ; and, somehow or other — it is curious how such coincidences will happen — both sisters contemporaneously recovered their wonted self-composure, when little Master or Miss Anonymous (for nobody, to this hour, knows the sex or name of the infant) was transferred from their brother's arms to the more attentive arms of its mother. " Dears,'* said Mr. Baboon, addressing his sisters, "let us walk about a little." Both sisters intimated their concurrence in the proposal. Miss Jemima took Mr. Frede- rick's right arm, and Miss Lucy his left. " Woat a lovely day we have " Mr. Frederick's remark was suddenly inter- rupted by a miniature Niagara of spray, which rudely dashed against him and the two ladies. Mr. Frederick made use of an exclamation which it were better not to repeat ; while Misses Jemima and Lucy uttered, if there be not an Irishism in the expression, a harmoni- ous scream. Who shall describe the world 104 VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. of mischief which that unmannerly wave pro- duced ! Of Mr. Frederick's disasters we say nothing ; those of his sisters it is not for us to describe, because none but a lady can enter properly into the extent of the calamity which befals one of her sex, when, all of a sudden, she is doomed to witness the wholesale destruction of lace, blonde, ribbons, and so forth, in which, but a moment before, she rejoiced with ineffable joy. All three hurried down to the cabin, there to bewail the disaster which had befallen them, — Mr. Frederick to vent his mortification in broken Cockneyisms, and the Misses (his sisters) to shed over their calamities oceans of briny tears. Of course their airs and affec- tations were at an end for the day. They remained invisible the rest of the voyage. By this time the vessel was opposite Broad Stairs, which, as those who have performed the voyage are aware, is within two or three miles of Ramsgate. Glengarry still continued to bid defiance to sea-sickness, and still more loftily, if VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. 105 that were possible, did he bear himself on that account. All of a sudden, however, he was observed to seat himself on one of the forms in the middle of the deck ; and scarcely had he put himself into a sitting posture, than he fixed his eye on the edge of the vessel directly oppo- site where he sat. With his eye thus steadily fixed on a particular spot, and he looking as if it had been "fixed on vacancy," Glengarry remained for some seconds. It was clear that this change in his demeanour and appearance was not without its meaning. The only ques- tion was, what was the meaning ? The question was not destined to remain long unanswered. A sudden leap from where he sat, to the spot on which his eye had been so intently fixed, fur- nished a satisfactory solution of the problem. The leap would have done credit to Spring- heeled Jack himself, — a personage of whom we hear a great deal, but of whose history, beyond the fact of his being a gentleman of great physi- cal agility, nobody seems to know anything. F 2 106 VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. So great was Glengarry's haste to reach the particular spot, that overboard went his bonnet. A shriek from several of the passengers plainly indicated that they had, for the moment, con- founded himself with his bonnet. They were, however, instantaneously undeceived. Sounds most unpleasant to ears polite, or, indeed, to any ears, proceeded from Glengarry's throat, and made themselves heard in every part of the vessel. And yet, though seeing the Celt in such deep distress, a number of those present were sufficiently unfeeling to enjoy, and to laugh immoderately at, his calamities. They regarded the awkward position in which he was now placed, as a righteous retribution for the haughty demeanour he had exhibited during the voyage, and the contemptuous manner in which he had looked upon themselves when, one after another, and sometimes half-a-dozen at a time, they were seized with the same malady as that which now numbered him among its victims. To render the circumstance more mortifying VOYAGE TO RAMSGATE. 107 still, Glengarry, bonnetless as he was, was com- pelled to continue his bending position over the side of the vessel, and to utter the sounds peculiar to one in his situation, until the Fame actually landed, — which she did in the presence of a vast concourse of spectators. Whether the sounds referred to were English or Gaelic, is a point which none of those on the pier or in the vessel were able to decide ; nor are we ourselves ashamed to confess, that it is also too knotty for us to settle. CHAPTER VI. Our hero returns to town — Becomes an extensive magazine contributor — Remarks on magazine writing. Joseph, after a month's sojourn in Ramsgate, returned to town, much refreshed by the mvi- gorating sea breezes which he inhaled at that favourite watering-place. Having by this time obtained access to the pages of several of the periodicals which pay for accepted contributions, he was, after his month's residence at the sea-side, seized with a fit of literary industry ; and " worked off that fit," as he himself expressed it, by " getting up " arti- cles for the various magazines referred to. To write attractive magazine articles, is much more difiicult than is generally supposed. And MAGAZINE WRITING. 109 it is a curious fact, that many of the most distinguished authors of the day, have com- pletely failed in their efforts to write a popular paper for any of our periodicals. Just let any one glance his eye over our current magazine literature, and then let him say whether, but for the circumstance of their names being attached to their contributions, he could have believed it possible that authors whose fame fills the civil- ized world, could ever have suffered the miser- able stuff which is there the acknowledged produce of their pens, to have had a moment's habitation in their minds. Yet so it is. To account for the fact, is another matter. My own opinion is, that the difficulty may be partly accounted for, from the circumstance of an author of established and extensive reputation, being accustomed to occupy whatever space he may require. Consequently, he finds it impos- sible sufficiently to concentrate his ideas and contract his incidents, — without impairing their effect, — so as to bring the article within the 110 MAGAZINE WRITING. limited compass usually allowed to an individual contribution. In magazine writing, there is no room for introductory flourishes, none for di- gressions, none for the clap-trap accessions of high-flown descriptions, which occupy so much space in the pages of our three-volume works of fiction. The magazine contributor must plunge into his subject at once. The first sentence must tell ; and every succeeding sentence must have its point and piquancy, otherwise he will never acquire the reputation of a successful con- tributor to the periodical literature of the day. The fire of smart and telling things with which he commences, must be kept up without a mo- ment's cessation. To flag is fatal. Episodes, underplots, and all the other appurtenances of the othodox three-volume novel, are wholly unknown to the magazine writer. They are forbidden materials for him to work with. Magazine writing was a much more profitable, and a much less precarious occupation, at the period to which we are now referring, than it MAGAZINE WRITING. Ill has been for some time past. The proprietors of the leading periodicals rarely paid a contri- butor, possessing more than the average tact and talent, less than twelve guineas per sheet. The average rate of remuneration for con- tributors of the first class, was sixteen guineas per sheet ; while those who possessed an aristo- cratic title, in addition to their talents, and who consented to let their names be attached to their contributions, were paid as high as twenty guineas per sheet. Nor was the high rate of remuneration given for contributions to popular periodicals, sixteen or seventeen years ago, the only inducement which literary men had to turn their attention to that kind of writing; there was then a great probability, provided the writer possessed versatility and talent, of getting one's name put on the list of stated contributors. It is now far otherwise in both respects. Three and four guineas a sheet are only now given for articles to one or two of our magazines which rank high. Five guineas in the instances to lis MAGAZINE WRITING. which I allude, are the maxinium amount of remuneration. One or two other periodicals give ten guineas, where they gave twenty. As regards the stated, or even frequent insertion of one's articles, that is now out of the question, unless where private influences are brought to bear. The secret of all this is explained by the fact, that sixteen or seventeen years ago there were but few competitors in the magazine field ; now it is overrun with persons ambitious of distinguishing themselves in that department of literature. The class of articles which Joseph Jenkins chiefly contributed to the periodical literature of his day, were of the kind which have a foun- dation in fact, but which are mainly depen- dent for their success, on the effect with which the writer mixes up the emanations of his own fancy with the realities of actual incidents. He required a ground-work for everything, but possessed no ordinary facility of raising a large superstructure, — one, too, which was usually MAGAZINE WRITING. 113 pleasant to the eye, — on a very slender founda- tion. As one of the articles which Joseph thus contributed to the periodical literature of fifteen or sixteen years ago, not only had its origin in circumstances which came under his own obser- vation, but aifords some curious information respecting the spirit of rivalry which exists in greater or less vigour in all trades in the metro- polis, the author will, possibly, be pardoned, if he so far interrupt the flow of the narrative, as to give the article a place in the pages of this work. And, perhaps, it cannot be more appropriately introduced, than as forming the next chapter. Its title was " The Hatters of High Holborn." CHAPTER VII. An episodical chapter — The rival hatters — Expedients to which they resorted in carrying on their opposition to each other. John Nokes was for many years known as a hatter, in a small way, in High Holborn. It was his good fortune, for a long time, to have no rival near him. The consequence was, as he used to say, that he was enabled to keep up the dignity of " the profession " by keeping up the price of his hats. John was a little man. His altitude, even with the high-soled shoes, which he always wore, only measured five feet four inches and seven eighths. Like all little men, he was very dignified in his manner. No- thing could exceed the bustling pomposity of his deportment when engaged in turning over THE RIVAL HATTERS. 115 his stock of hats to get a capital fit for a cus- tomer. Whenever the purchaser got a hat which suited him, Mr. Nokes took it off his head, and giving it a smart whack on the crown with a cane which he always snatched up from the counter when a customer made his appear- ance, replaced it on the cranium of the latter, observing with a peculiar self-complacency of manner, " That, sir, is a hat which the king on the throne might be proud to wear." But little John was not destined always to have matters his own way. " An intruder," as he called him, of the modern school, had the cool assurance to begin business directly oppo- site his shop. For some time Mr. Nokes as- sumed an air of philosophic indifference, and affected to laugh at the idea of his new oppo- nent's success. The latter, however, whose name was William Jones, had recourse, imme- diately on opening shop, to the practice of ad- vertising — a practice which never entered into the imagination of Mr. Nokes — and the result was, 116 THE RIVAL HATTERS. that before he had been a fortnight in business, John had the mortification of seeing sundry- excellent customers of his own, go into Jones's shop with " shocking bad hats," and come out with new ones " shining so brilliantly," to use Mr. Jones's own words^ "as to surpass every- thing hitherto attempted in the trade." This was bad enough, in all conscience, for poor Mr. Nokes ; and many were the curses he muttered, both at his rival and at " modern im- provements in hat-making." But the worst of the matter was yet to come. Hitherto Jones had contented himself with advertising in gene- ral terms. He simply announced, by means of handbills, that his hats would be found to be of a superior quality, and the prices moderate. Even little John himself was compelled to own that this was all quite fair and reasonable in a beginner, however much he might suffer from the opposition. By the time, however, that Mr. Jones had been a month in business, he hoisted a large signboard, and circulated some THE RIVAL HATTERS. 117 thousands of handbills, announcing that his hats were the cheapest and best in the neighbourhood. This was a terrible stroke to the diminutive hero opposite. Hitherto he had been passive, how- ever mortified, at the doings of " the intruder." But this was not to be borne. It would have been, to use his own expression, to let his busi- ness commit suicide, to suffer it to pass without taking some means to neutralise the effects it was calculated to produce. Mr. Nokes accord- ingly consulted some of his friends as to what ought to be done. After some deliberation on the subject, they suggested that the best course for him to adopt would be to put up a sign- board, and issue handbills, with the words in large letters — " The cheapest and best hats in the worldJ'^ The chagrined little man did as he was desired. Mr. Jones now saw that his rival was determined to carry on the war with vigour ; and resolved not to shrink from hostilities, which he had himself commenced, he forthwith exhibited another board, with the inscription 118 THE RIVAL HATTERS. on it — " Cheaper and Better Hats than those Over the "Way." Of course it followed, accord- ing to every acknowledged rule of logic, pro- vided the public could only be made to believe the assertion, that Mr. Jones's hats being cheaper and better than those of his rival, must be the cheapest and best in the world. Mr. Nokes's signboard and handbills necessarily went for nothing. What, then, was to be done? John, or Johnny, as he was usually called in the neighbourhood, was again under the necessity of taking the advice of his friends. After dis- cussing various schemes for successfully com- peting with his formidable rival, it was at last agreed, that as Jones had painted his house red on opening shop, by way of distinguishing it from others — and especially from that " over the way" — Nokes should have his, which hitherto rejoiced in a yellow complexion, painted exactly the same colour and in the same way as that of "the intruder." This was accordingly done. Suspicions now began to cross the mind of THE RIVAL HATTERS. 119 Jones that, in his Lilliputian opponent " on the opposite side," he had caught a tartar. Still, as he had provoked the conflict, he could not, with credit to himself, retire from it. He there- fore got the whole front of his house, from top to bottom, painted over with the words — " The Original Red House." Nokes, who boasted that though little in person he possessed a great mind, rose, like every genius, with the occasion ; and next day were seen on the front of his pre- mises gigantic black letters on the red ground — " The True Original Red House." This, for a time, quite confounded Mr. Jones. On re- covering partially from the confusion into which he had been thrown, a thought struck him, and, Archimedes like, he exclaimed aloud, to the amazement of his workmen — " I have it ! I have it ! " And so saying, he ordered his boy to bring the painter immediately. Before the boy had well crossed the threshold of the door, Jones wrote on a slip of paper — " The Royal Original Red House ;" which words forthwith 120 ' THE RIVAL HATTERS. appeared in conspicuous characters on the front of the house. " Let the little despicable crea- ture see what he can do now," said Jones to himself, with an air of triumph, as the painter had finished the last letter. Imagine his sur- prise and mortification when he next day found that the front of Nokes's premises rejoiced in the imposing inscription — " The Genuine Royal Original Red House." It was now clear that the war could no longer be carried on by means of the painters, — who, it is unnecessary to say, had all this time been reaping a rich harvest from the disputes of the rival hatters. Mr. Jones accordingly deter- mined on at once abandoning that mode of war- fare, though he scorned to retire from the war itself. Handbills appeared to him the weapons with which he could, in all probability, most effectually carry on the conflict with his small opponent " over the way," Mr. Jones, in a few days after abandoning the idea of any longer prosecuting the war through the medium of the THE RIVAL HATTERS. 121 painter, accordingly put forth a handbill, in which, after proving completely to his own satisfaction, that Nokes had behaved in a man- ner very *' unbecoming a gentleman," he bap- tized the opposition shop as " The Yellow Red Sneak." Little Nokes, not relishing so ugly a cognomen as the " Yellow Red Sneak,'" attacked his rival in another handbill, under the alarm- ing title of '* An Exposure of Villany," in which Jones was called a " reptile," a " rascal," and so forth. Jones retorted next morning, in *' An Appeal to Englishmen," in which he asked whether there could be a more dastardly cha- racter than that of a "yellow red sneaking coward." Nokes took no notice of this query ; but, in less than three hours, he published an- other handbill, in which he boldly asserted that Jones's hats were mere trumpery, — a perfect disgrace to the trade, while his (that is to say, Mr. Nokes', of course) stood unrivalled in the world. Jones retorted, that his hats were the best in the universe^ and that Nokes manufac- VOL. II. G 122 THE RIVAL HATTERS. tured the worst ; that, in fact, he was only a would-be hatter. The latter forthwith, in a long handbill, written quite in the George Robins style of eloquence, " submits to the world " whether his hats have not been found by "the world" to be unequalled in quality, and concludes by broadly charging his rival with having cheated the public ever since he opened shop. Mr. Jones resents the impu- tation with becoming spirit ; and waxing poeti- cal, as he had already waxed indignant, he exultingly exclaims — " Famed hatter of Holborn, who gained great renown, By his much- approved dealings all over the town ! " This couplet is of course meant to apply to Mr. Jones himself; and he appends to it, in plain prose, the very sensible question, " What greater proof can there be of the superior qua- lity of my goods and of my mode of doing busi- ness, than is afforded by the fact that the de- spicable little animal across the street has been THE RIVAL HATTERS. 123 obliged to pirate my colours, and thus suck the honey of my expectations ? " " Pooh ! pooh ! " answers Nokes, " I have a right to paint my house any colour I please." " Who doubts or denies it," answers Jones, " but why pirate my colours ; why not, like every true Englishman, stand to your own, were it not that you found the whole of London were coming to my shop to purchase hats, while yours was as deserted as if it had been on some unpeopled island ? " Nokes declined answering this question ; con- tenting himself, in his handbill of the following morning, with heaping all manner of personal abuse on his opponent. The latter finding that he had the greatest share . of customers, con- trived to keep his temper ; and levying a con- tribution from the muses, for he had now regu- larly engaged a sort of poet laureate, to annoy his opponent " in metre," as he called it, — he parried personal scurrility in self-laudatory verse. The following is a specimen : — 124 THE RIVAL HATTERS. But the greatest of good oft with evil is mixed, (In the public esteem being thoroughly fixed) All the small fry of hatters were grievously sore, That the buyers of hats all flocked to his door. But among the whole set was no madder a fellow Than one who had painted his bricks a bright yellow, And who finding this colour their friends never led, Contemptibly pilfer'd his neighbour's famed red. Hostilities thus continued to rage (on red pa- per, it should be mentioned) for some months, to the profit of the printers and the amusement of the public. Mr. Nokes manfully stuck by his scurrilous mode of prosecuting the war, apply- ing terms to his rival before unheard of in the vocabulary of abuse. The latter, determined to show that he possessed more varied resources in the management of hostilities, dispensed with the poet to make room for a fabulist, whom he had engaged for the purpose. The first pro- duction of the modern iEsop is much too long for us to give : but as the " moral " is brief we here subjoin it : — " Moral. — When an igno- rant and unskilful individual sets himself up for an accomplished tradesman, without one quali- THE RIVAL HATTERS. 125 fication necessary to the character, how fre- quently does it happen that he is laughed at and despised by those whom he presumed to imi- tate, and punished by those whom he attempted to deceive." Nokes replied to this in the usual way, namely, by personal abuse. Fable succeeded fable every day, and the same sort of answer was always returned, until the appearance of the thirteenth fable of the series, — in the "moral" of which the High Holborn ^Esop chanced to characterise Nokes as " the ugliest little person in the universe." This was the worst cut of all. Nokes' vanity was deeply wounded. His physiognomy was certainly of a most forbidding character. On the following day his handbill was very brief. It simply intimated that the author would reply to the " scandalous, gross, and most unwarrant- able libel on his person, in another way." From that moment the handbill warfare ceased. The poet had been before supplanted 126 THE RIVAL HATTERS. by the fabulist ; and the latter now found that his occupation, like that of Shakspeare's Moor, was gone. The printers looked on the circum- stance of this sudden termination of the war, as a calamity of the first magnitude. They had been laying the flattering unction to their souls that entire casks of ink would be " shed," and reams innumerable of paper consumed, before hostilities should be brought to a close. Those who had watched the progress of the war, now became all anxiety to learn what Nokes could mean by the intimation that he would reply " in another way," to the imputa- tion which Mr. Jones had thrown out on the beauty of his face and the altitude of his per- son. It was stoutly contended by some, that he intended to commit some personal outrage on his rival ; but others saw at once that this could not be the correct hypothesis, because, while Nokes was a mere pigmy in stature, Jones was an athletic and muscular man ; and that consequently, in an attempt at an assault, THE RIVAL HATTERS. 127 Nokes himself, should his opponent retaliate, as doubtless in such a case he would, would stand a great chance of being ground to powder in the true Jack-the-Giant-Killer style. A third class were positive that the little hatter meant to retire altogether from the contest, and that the threat in question was only an unmeaning sort of flourish, with which he sought to lessen the dishonour of defeat. In the meantime Mr. Nokes confined his in- tentions to his own breast. That he had not retired from the conflict, but meant to carry it on, though in another mode of warfare, was made apparent in less than a fortnight, by the appearance, to the unutterable surprise and dis- may of Mr. Jones, of a large van in the streets, with two high sides, painted red, and having on each side, in as large letters as the Leviathan size of the vehicle would admit, the words — " The Royal Central Red House, No. , where the best and cheapest hats in the world are sold. No connexion with any pretenders 128 THE RIVAL HATTERS. in the neighbourhood." By this " ingenious device," little Nokes achieved for the time a complete triumph over his opponent. It was, however, only for a very short time. In the course of ten or twelve days, Mr. Jones caused a still larger van than that of his opponent to be made, also painted red, and containing the inscription in " flaring" letters — " The True Royal and Original Red House, No. , which is still unrivalled for the cheapness and quality of its hats. Take notice — No connexion with any small would-be hatter in the neighbour- hood." But in addition to this, and the larger size of the van, Jones mounted two men on his " vekel," as Nokes called it, one before and the other behind, each with a hat on his head, painted red, ornamented with the inscription, — " The unrivalled hats for seventeen shillings, at the True Royal Red House, No. ." The personage who stood behind also carried a sort of bugle-horn, from which he extracted such singular sounds as had the effect of attracting THE RIVAL HATTERS. 129 the attention of every person whose eye the van met as it passed along the streets. It was now clear to every body, and to none more so than to poor little Nokes himself, that in this mode of warfare Jones had completely the advantage. How Nokes could once more put himself in a better position, was a question which puzzled him to answer. He therefore determined to consult some of his friends on the subject, the very evening of the day on which Mr. Jones's van was " brought out." A circumstance occurred, however, before night, to render the advice of his friends, unnecessary. " I say, Tom, my old chap," said the guard of Jones' vehicle to the driver, " I say, old chap, voud it not be a bit of jolly good fun for us, if ve vere to run agin that ere hopposition wan ? " " You may say that, Jem ; I'm blow'd if I voud not shiver it, to atoms, horse and man and all, gin we did." " And sarve it and 'em right too," said Jem. 130 THE RIVALS HATTERS. " Vy, its only a piece of trumpery stuff, fit only for the fire. I'd be 'shamed to be seen vith it, I'm bless'd if I vould'nt," remarked Tom, giving the horse a sharp smack with the whip. " Sartainly, its not like our set out," ob- served the other, taking ofi* his painted hat, and looking complacently at the black letters on the red ground. " This I knows, any how, as that the — " *' I'm blow'd, Jem, if it aint a-coming," inter- rupted Tom, in a tone of supreme delight, his face looking like that of the laughing philoso- pher of old. " You don't mean to say that, old boy," said Jem, standing on tiptoe and stretching out his neck, in his endeavours to get a peep over the top of their own van, at the doomed vehicle. " Don't you see it, Jem, crawling up the hill like a snail ? " This observation was made opposite Furni- val's Inn, while Nokes's van was coming up Holborn Hill. THE RIVAL HATTERS. 131 " I'll be hanged if it be'nt/' shouted Jem, leaping for joy at the sight, as far as the little wooden step on which he stood would permit him to leap. " Now, then, old cock, do the thing in fine style," continued Jem. " O, von't I ; you let me alone for the mat- ter of that," replied the other, applying his whip to the shoulders of the horse. As the animal started off at an accelerated speed, a sardonic smile at the contemplated mis- chief played on the countenance of Jem. The moment the driver of Mr. Nokes's van perceived the " opposishun vekel " advancing, he also applied the whip unsparingly to the horse's back, not with the intention of a ren- contre, but for the purpose, as he himself after- wards said, of mortifying Jones's men, by show- ing them " vat a fine hanimal of an oss he had." Both vans were accordingly being driven at a furious rate, when he who was entrusted with the destinies of Jones's vehicle, dashed right against that of Nokes. The wheels of both 132 THE RIVAL HATTERS. vehicles, whicli came in collision, went spinning into the street. Down came the vehicles them- selves, and both the lofty sides of Nokes's van went to pieces by the fall. One side also of that of Jones's was shivered into innumerable fragments. The other however, sustained but little da- mage. Jem, who but a minute before was exulting in the expected mischief, was pitched head foremost a respectable distance into the street ; and in addition to his alighting in mud two or three inches deep — for it had rained all the previous part of the day — his frontispiece received several severe contusions, the marks of which remained for months after, as remem- brancers of the collision. Tom also was ejected from his seat by the violence of the concussion ; but beyond falling in the mud he suffered no sensible injury. The driver of Nokes's van singularly enough fell back in the vehicle ; and on being " chucked out," as he himself after- wards expressed it, received no injury at all. Here, then, was an end of hostilities betweei THE RIVAL HATTERS. 133 the rival hatters through the medium of vans. Nokes now determined that he should in future contest the point with Jones in a more " con- stitutional way," as he himself expressed it. Little Nokes was in the habit of spending his evenings, after shutting shop, in the parlour of the Coach and Horses, in a neighbouring street. On the night after the affair of the van collision, several of those present affected great sympathy towards him, and indignation at the conduct of his opponent. " Jones is an unprincipled va- gabond ; he ought to be hooted on the streets," said a broken down penniless dandy, raising from the table and looking significantly into it, a glass which had just been emptied of gin and water. The sentiment was music to the soul of the little hatter. " What will you have to drink, sir?" rejoined Nokes, his countenance beam- ing with joy at finding a friend in a compara- tive stranger ; " will you take a glass of brandy and water ? " " O my dear sir, don't trouble yourself," said 134 THE RIVAL HATTERS. the other ; " the conduct of that fellow Jones is truly execrable ; it is, indeed, Mr. Nokes." " Perhaps, sir, you will have no objection to our having a bottle of port together. Waiter, bring me a bottle of your best port," said Nokes, with manifestly increased delight at this supplement to the opinion which the other had expressed respecting the character of his rival. The wine was on the table in an instant. Nokes first filled his friend's glass and then his own. " My dear sir," said he, extending his little hand to the other, " my dear sir, I am heartily glad to see that the man's character is estimated at its proper value, even by strangers : I have the pleasure of drinking your very good health, sir." Nokes put the glass to his mouth, and emptied its contents at a draught. " The conduct of that ere Jones is disgrace- ful to yoomanity; indeed it is, Mister Nox," said a greasy-looking little fellow, sitting in the corner next to the door, and pufling away at his pipe with most commendable industry. THE RIVAL HATTERS. 135 " Perhaps, sir, you would come and join us. Waiter, bring another glass," cried Nokes, de- lighted at seeing friends rising so rapidly and unexpectedly around him. The little man changed his locality forth- with. In a few seconds he and Nokes were pledging each other's health in overflowing bumpers. " I tell you vat it is, Mr. Nokes," said another person, who had just swigged the last drop of a pint of half-and-half ; "I tell you vat it is, Mr. Nokes, I am von as doesn't like to say nothing agin nobody ; but I'm sure of this, anyhow, as how that feller Jones must be either a stealin' of his 'ats ready made, or he must be a robbin' o' his creditors — he sells 'em so cheap." "Vy, yes," said an undertaker, just begun business ; " vy, yes, you may say that, frien' ; an' the end of it will be, that he'll be sent to prison." " And sarve the feller right, too," observed 136 THE RIVAL HATTERS. the other. " All sich as he who hopposes 'onest tradesmen should be sent to prison and suffered to rot there." " I hope as how he'll come my vay soon," said the undertaker ; " O, voudn't I be so 'appy to do the job for such fellers ! " "Gentlemen," said Nokes, starting to his feet in an ecstacy of delight ; " Gentlemen, come, pray do come and join us. Waiter ! " shouted the little man, at the top of his voice. The waiter made his appearance before the sound emitted by Nokes' stentorian lungs had died away. " Have you nothing better than port to give us ? " inquired the little hatter. " Champagne, sir — very excellent champagne, sir," answered the waiter, giving two or three waiter-like shuffles with his feet. " Champagne, ay, champagne ; that's the ticket ; bring us a couple of bottles as quick as you can," said Nokes. THE RIVAL HATTERS. 137 "Mr. Nokes!" said the undertaker, "Mr. Nokes, really you are " " My dear sir, pray don't mention it," waving his right hand; "nothing, I assure you, can give me greater pleasure than to express my gratitude to those who, like you all, gentlemen, see through the character of this man." His " friends" looked each other significantly in the face. The undertaker winked with his left eye at the greasy-looking little man who sat opposite to him. All who were in the room had now become Mr. Nokes' guests. The two bottles of cham- pagne were quaffed in excellent style, followed by another bottle of port, amidst some of the choicest specimens of abuse of poor Jones ever before exhibited. They parted that night. But all of them were in the parlour of the Coach and Horses in good time next evening, waiting the appearance of Mr. Nokes. The little man was there sooner than usual. Mr. Jones was again as 138 THE RIVAL HATTERS. heartily abused as before ; and Nokes treated his "friends" as liberally to wine as he had done the previous evening. Several other persons, who chanced to enter the parlour in the course of the evening, per- ceiving how matters stood, qualified themselves for admission on the list of Mr. Nokes' friends, and amply partook of his liberality. The thing was kept up in this way for ten or twelve consecutive nights, the number of Mr. Nokes' "friends" increasing every evening, until some of his near relations having been informed of the circumstance, interposed to prevent his ruining himself, by keeping him at home after he had closed his shop for the day. Ever since the appearance of the last handbill which Mr. Nokes put forth, promising to reply, in " another way," to the scandalous insinuation of his opponent, that he, to wit, Mr. Nokes, was the ugliest little person in the universe — ever since the publication of this handbill, Nokes had had two confidential persons in his THE RIVAL HATTERS. 139 employ, frequenting the public-houses and per- ambulating the streets in quest of very ugly and very little men. Their instructions were, to obtain, if possible, the names and addresses of any such persons as they could find answering the description ; so that Mr. Nokes might have an opportunity of communicating with them, should he deem it proper. What Mr. Nokes' object was they did not know : all he told them was to execute his wishes, and let no one know they were so employed. They indulged in a thousand conjectures as to their employer's object, but they did not hit upon the real one. Mr. Nokes' agents could have no difficulty in finding ugly, very ugly men ; they were to be met with in every direction. The place in Theobald's Road, where the notorious Robert Taylor, the self-styled "Devil's Chaplain," at that time spouted his blasphemy, swarmed with such persons. The agents chanced one night to drop in there, and took, almost at 140 THE RIVAL HATTERS. hap-hazard, the addresses of two dozen and a half, which they thought would surely be enough to answer their employer's purpose. They returned to him, exulting at the great success of their mission. They handed Mr. Nokes the list. " And these are all decidedly ugly men, are they ? " said he. " Werry," said one. " O, decidedly frightful fellers,'* said the other. "A good deal more so than me," observed Mr. Nokes, affecting a little pleasantry on the subject. " Why, said the one, " I don't know, if I must speak the truth, that they are all as ugly as you, Mr. Nokes ; but I'm sure some of them are. O, there are such hideous brutes among them!" "What do you think?" said Mr. Nokes, addressing himself to the other agent, who as yet had expressed no opinion on the subject. THE RIVAL HATTERS. 141 " Why, I think, Mr. Nokes, it's very difficult to say. It all depends on people's opinion ; and opinions, you know, sometimes varies very much." " But you are sure you have some very ugly persons on your list ? " " Bless, your soul, sir, I'll swear that. Some of them are perfectly horrible to behold." "And all very little ?" said Mr. Nokes. " I don't think they are particularly little," observed one of the agents. " However, we never thought you wanted them little also." " How stupid, to be sure ! " remarked Mr. Nokes, quite chagrined. " Did I not give you particular instructions to get them very ugly and very little ? " " Bless your soul, sir, we understood it quite different. We thought you wanted two sets ; one set very ugly, and the other set very little. And so we went in quest of the ugly set first." "^Oh, dear, dear ! what an awkward afiair ! " \4t2 THE RIVAL HATTERS. sighed Mr. Nokes, energetically rubbing his little hands. " You must get persons who are both very ugly and very little." The agents looked at each other. " That's a very different matter," says the one. " It is, indeed," observed the other. " And rely on it, it w^ill be a much more difficult task to execute." " At any rate, v^^e'll do our best, Mr. Nokes," said both, as they quitted his shop in High Holborn. They, indeed, found it a very different matter. After perambulating the streets for several hours, without meeting with a single person that would answer their purpose, they were about to return home for the day, when they observed in Parliament Street a person whom they both agreed in thinking would suit their purpose to a hair. " Pray, sir," said one of them, "may I take the liberty of asking what is your name ? " THE RIVAL HATTERS. 143 " Why do you ask that question ? " said he with an air of surprise and sternness. " Only, sir, to decide a wager," replied one of Mr. Nokes' agents, at the same time respect- fully touching his hat. " Oh, if that's it," said he, with a grim smile, " my name is Lord ." The two agents then proceeded slowly in the direction of Abingdon Street ; but as they were passing the statue of Mr. Canning, one of them shouted, " Here's another — just our man ! " pointing to a person a few yards from them. "Pray, sir," said one of them, "may I use the freedom of inquiring your name ? " " What, I should like to know, have you to do with my name ? " said the stranger, in a very sullen mood, and glancing so savage a look at them as almost to frighten them from his pre- sence. " Only, sir, because we had a dispute about it," answered the party who had asked the question. 144 THE RIVAL HATTERS. " Why, if that's all," said the stranger, in a much more subdued tone; "if that's all, my name is R , the member for ." The two agents then returned home. They set out again on their mission on the following day, and returned in the evening with a list of four names. On the day after, notwithstanding all their industry and exertion, they could only succeed in finding two persons that would an- swer their purpose. They intimated to Mr Nokes on their return, their determination to relinquish the farther prosecution of the task th6y had undertaken, ov/ing to its being a much more arduous one than they had in the first in- stance apprehended it would prove. " Let me see," said Mr. Nokes, looking up to the ceiling of the shop, as if lost in some ab- struse calculation ; " let me see, that is half-a dozen altogether you have got ? " " Oh, eight, sir ! eight, sir ! " observed one of the agents, with great energy. ** Half-a-dozen, Mr. Nokes, exclusive^ of THE RIVAL HATTERS. 145 Lord J and Mr. R ," said the other. " Oh, ay ; but you know we cannot calculate on them," observed Mr. Nokes. "Well, I think," he added, after a short pause, " six may answer our purpose." The agents exchanged congratulatory glances with each other, " Happy to hear it,"^said the one. " We are, indeed, Mr. Nokes," observed the other. " Quite sure now, they are decidedly ugly and decidedly little." " We'll swear it," said the one. " Oh, prime 'uns, sir," exclaimed the other, with much emphasis. " Well, if the thing turn out as I hope it will, you shall be liberally rewarded for your trouble," said Nokes,. " Shocking bad hats I think you have got," he continued, first looking at the one and then at the other. " Fery," answered the one, taking off his hat, VOL. II. H 146 THE RIVAL HATTERS. and putting his hand through a large hole in the crown. " Shocking bad, indeed, Mr. Nokes," ob- served the other. " Here," said Nokes, taking up two hats which were lying on the counter, and putting them on the heads of the agents ; " here, take these best beavers in the meantime, I will settle with you in full in a few days." The agents quitted Mr. Nokes' premises well satisfied with what they had got, coupled with their expectations of future reward. Next morning Nokes wrote to each of the six " very ugly and very little men," to meet him at two o'clock that day week, in the large room of the Coach and Horses ; adding, that by so doing they would find it to their advan- tage. The half-dozen hideous-looking little per- sonages were " punctual as lovers " to the ap- pointed hour, each indulging in a thousand con- jectures as to the motives which prompted the THE RIVAL HATTERS. 147 invitation, and the advantages to be derived. As neither of them knew that any one but him- self had been invited, and as they were all strangers to one another, they were not only surprised but terror-struck, as they gazed on each other's frightful visages during the five minutes Nokes was behind his time. That circumstance, added to the mystery of the affair, was the reason why neither of them ventured to break the dead silence which prevailed. The cause of Nokes's not appearing at the precise time appointed was this : — He had duly arrived with two of his friends at the Coach and Horses, a minute or so before two o'clock ; but not having previously apprised them or any one else of the object he had in view, he thought it would be better to take them into a private room and explain the whole matter to them, before introducing them to the proprietors of the half-dozen hideous physiognomies in the adjoining room. 148 THE RIVAL HATTERS. "Gentlemen," said Mr. Nokes, "you know that that fellow " — meaning Jones^ of course — " you know that he has publicly libelled me, by calling me the ugliest little person in the universe. I mean, gentlemen, to prove in open court and before a jury of my countrymen, that the imputation is atrociously false ; and a few days since I instituted an action against him with that view. I have got six men in the next room uglier and less than myself, whom I mean to bring before the jury, and whose stature and faces will disprove the malicious calumny. I have taken the liberty of asking you to come here to assist me in arranging matters with them for the intended trial." Mr. Nokes' friends could not [have been more confounded had the house fallen about their ears. On partially recovering from their surprise, they exchanged most significant glances. It needed not the skill of a professed physiognomist to perceive what was passing in their minds ; they thought that the anxiety and THE RIVAL HATTERS. 149 annoyance of mind which the opposition of Jones had caused to the poor little man, had completely deranged his intellects. The pro- priety of putting him in a strait-jacket, and sending him to a lunatic asylum, were the first ideas that crossed their minds. " Mr. Nokes," said one of his friends, after a short pause ; " Mr. Nokes, we don't under- stand this ; you surely are not serious." " I am, by ," answered Mr. Nokes, with singular energy ; at the same time striking the table with great force. " The matter you complain of, Mr. Nokes, is not actionable," said another of his friends. " Pooh, pooh ! don't you mistake yourselves ; I know better than that," said the little man, putting his hands into the breast of his waist- coat, and pulling himself up. His friends at length, however, though not without the greatest difficulty, succeeded in convincing him that he was mistaken. And they extorted a promise from him that he would 150 THE RIVAL HATTERS. withdraw the action, and not make an ass of himself. The next thing to be done was, to explain to the owners of the frightful frontis- pieces in the adjoining room the reasons why they had been invited by Mr. Nokes to the Coach and Horses, and to inform them of the turn which matters had just taken. Nokes and his two friends introduced them- selves for this purpose. One of the latter who was fond of a joke, after a fair quantum of "hems" and pauses, stated (Nokes all the while standing trembling at his back) that his friend Mr. Nokes had been stigmatised by Jones, the hatter in High Holborn, as the ugliest little man in the universe; and that, convinced the charge was unfounded, and not wishing to lie under it, he had determined on proving before a jury of his countrymen that there are uglier and " littler " men, even in London, than he. " For this purpose," added Nokes' friend, '*he had invited you, gentle- men, to meet him here to-day, hoping that you THE RIVAL HATTERS. 151 would have no objection, by appearing in court, to convict Mr. Nokes' accuser of falsehood. Allow me, gentlemen, to add, that you will, of course, be paid." Here Nokes' friend' was interrupted by the chorus of curses, loud and deep, which the half- dozen ugly little fellows vociferously invoked on the lilliputian head of poor Nokes. They also made an instantaneous rush towards the door, where Nokes stood at the back of his friends ; and would doubtless have torn the pigmy hatter to pieces, had not his friends, who were fortunately able-bodied men, arrested their progress. Nokes rushed down-stairs, and made his escape. The visages of the half-dozen little fellows, if hideous at any time, were inex- pressibly so now that they were made perfectly savage by the insult which Nokes had uninten- tionally offered them. Jones, the day after being served with a no- tice of Nokes' action against him, had brought a cross-action against Nokes for defamation of 152 THE RIVAL HATTERS. character. The friends of each party now clearly saw that, if a cessation of hostilities were not, by some means or other, brought about, the issue would be the bankruptcy of both. They accordingly agreed to use their best en- deavours to bring about a reconciliation between the belligerents of High Holborn. Mr. Jones at once agreed to this ; but little Nokes reso- lutely resisted for some time all offers of media- tion by his friends. At last, one Saturday evening, one of his friends finding him in a more composed and more rational mood, said, fami- liarly, clapping him on the shoulders, " Nokes, my boy, do you recollect the story of the cats of Kilkenny ? " *^ The cats of Kilkenny ! " said Nokes, hesi- tating for a moment, as if putting his powers of remembrance to the test. " The cats of Kil- kenny ! No, I don't think I ever heard of them partik'lar hanimals before," " Come now, Nokes, try if you can't brush up that treacherous memory of yours a little THE RIVAL HATTERS. 153 bit. I am sure you must have heard the story," said his friend, in a coaxing tone. " The cats of Kilkenny ! " said Nokes again. " Oh, I recollect now," exclaimed the little man, in great ecstacies, after a moment's hesi- tation. "The cats of Kilkenny which fought together till nothing but their tails were left, — I suppose you mean ? " " Precisely so, Mr. Nokes ; and if you and Jones go on much longer in the way you have been doing of late, you will soon be both in a similar predicament; you will be ruined. You will, Mr. Nokes, you may rely on it." This carried conviction to the mind of little Nokes ; he at once signified his willingness to discontinue the war. By the interposition of mutual friends, a reconciliation was eventually brought about between the parties ; and in less than six months afterwards they became such ardent friends, as to enter into partnership to- gether. This was several years ago, and ever h2 154 THE RIVAL HATTERS. since they have carried on a most prosperous business as hatters in High Holborn, and seem as attached to each other as if they had been " born brothers." CHAPTER VIII. A general election — Joseph attends several elections to re- port the proceedings — The election for the county of Dorset — The election for a neighbouring borough . Those gentlemen connected with the morning papers, whose engagements are to report the pro- ceedings in Parliament, are sent, at the period of a general election, into the various counties and towns throughout the kingdom, where' contests are expected, for the purpose of re- porting the proceedings. They are allowed, on such occasions, a guinea a day, over and above all coaching expenses, — their salaries running on, of course, as usual, at home. Re- porters will sometimes be out attending the elections for a month at a time ; and in most cases, two or three weeks elapse before their 156 CONTESTED ELECTIONS. return. A general election is, consequently, very expensive to the morning papers. I have known one general election cost a single paper about 25001. There is an instance on record, — and a very recent instance too, — in v^^hich a solitary election in the north of England, cost a morning journal the enormous sum of 150Z. The expenses v^^ere chiefly incurred in express- ing the intelligence to London. Joseph Jenkins was sent, soon after the date of the events recorded in the last chapter, into Somersetshire and some of the neighbouring counties, to attend the elections consequent on the dissolution of 1826, in that district. Con- tested elections are proverbial for the amuse- ment they afford. The general election of 1826 was particularly prolific of fun. In the district allotted to Joseph, there were two elections which excited much interest, and afforded no ordinary amusement. One of these was a county, the other a borough, election. The county election to which we allude, was CONTESTED ELECTIONS. 157 the election for Dorsetshire. At that election, which took place in the town of Ilchester, Mr. Henry Hunt, of Manchester massacre memory, opposed Sir Thomas Lethbridge. Perhaps more amusing or exciting scenes than those which took place in the course of this election, are not to be met with in electioneering records. In the metropolitan and provincial journals of the day, some account was given of the pro- ceedings. No account, however, was nearly so ample as the one which we are about to give from Joseph's notes. It may give the reader a greater relish for what follows, if we endeavour to convey to him some idea of the two principal performers in the extraordinary scenes to be related. Permit us, then, to state, that Mr. Hunt was a tall, corpulent, farmer-looking man, with a large, ruddy, jolly -looking countenance, and small laughing eyes. He was unequalled by any man we ever knew, in the felicity and readiness of his retorts. He was not to be put down or dis- 158 CONTESTED ELECTIONS. concerted. The more he was opposed, the more animated and amusing did he become. His opponent, Sir Thomas Lethbridge, was rather above the middle size, with (when we first saw him) a shrivelled face, and sallow complexion. His dress was slovenly, and he always wore leather unmentionables. His manner had a good deal of oddity about it, while, in his poli- tics, he was then as ultra a Tory as Mr. Hunt was virulent in his Radicalism. Such were the antagonist candidates on this occasion. The nomination of candidates having taken place two days previously, the Sherifi" took his seat at ten o'clock in the County Hall on the first day of polling. Immediately afterwards, Sir Thomas Lethbridge, attended by several friends, made his appearance. " Is Mr. Hunt here ? " inquired the Sherifi", looking round the assemblage, to see whether he could discern the Radical candidate. " No, he is not, sir," answered one of the offi- cers of the court. CONTESTED ELECTIONS. 159 " But he'll be presently," said one of Mr. Hunt's friends. Scarcely had the latter finished his brief sen- tence, when a stern determined voice was heard in the passage, — " If I don't do for old leather- breeches (Sir Thomas Lethbridge) before the election is over, may I be gibbeted." The appearance of Mr. Hunt, just as the last word was being pronounced, intimated to those in court who was the speaker. Mr. Hunt, accompanied by a few friends, having taken his seat, the proceedings of the day commenced. The polling proceeded « with great smoothness and regularity, until a Mr. Baker tendered his vote for Sir Thomas Lethbridge. Mr. Hunt objected to him on the ground that he kept the Post Office. " That's a falsehood," said Mr. Baker. Mr. Hunt. — As the old bird sings, the young bird learns. Miserable slave (addressing Mr. Baker), you but imitate the conduct of the can- didate who whips you to the poll. What are 160 CONTESTED ELECTIONS. we to expect from such rascals, — fellows who are dragged up to make a member, whether they will or not ? Sir Thomas Lethbridge (looking Mr. Hunt full in the face). — What do you say, sir? Mr. Hunt. — I say what I have said. (Laugh- ter.) The Sheriff. — I beg the candidates not to exceed the limits of gentlemanly conduct. Sir Thomas Lethbridge. — I see some of my opponent's rabble ready to poll. Administer the oath to them, Mr. Under Sheriff, against bribery and corruption. Mr. Hunt. — Oh, certainly ; they will take the oath without hesitation ; they will swear without a pale countenance or a quivering lip. There is not a slave — no, not one amongst them. What do you think of that, Sir Thomas ? Eh, can you say as much for your crew ? Sir Thomas smiled contemptuously, but made no reply. The Under Sheriff.— Mr. Hunt, it would be CONTESTED ELECTIONS. 161 desirable, if you could furnish us with a list of your voters : it would facilitate the business. Mr. Hunt. — Bless your heart, sir, I can do no such thing. 1 do not even know the names of the gentlemen who mean to vote for me. They are no slaves. They are not whipped thither (looking contemptuously at Sir Tho- mas), as if they were a pack of reluctant curs. I don't keep a list of them, as I would of my dogs. Eh, Sir Thomas. (Laughter and cheers from his friends.) " We are as honest as Sir Thomas himself," cried one of Mr. Hunt's supporters, " and are ready to take the oath." Mr. Hunt. — Do you hear that. Sir Thomas ? These are honest faces, (pointing to a body of his voters.) There is no roguery in those coun- tenances. (Laughter, in which Sir Thomas joined.) The polling was recommenced. Mr. Hunt objected to the vote of an attorney. " That blood-sucker is not qualified." 162 CONTESTED ELECTIONS. The Attorney. — It's a lie, Mr. Hunt, and ye know it. Mr. Hunt. — Ay, ay; there they go again. You see, Mr. Sheriff, what a parcel of black- guards you and I have got to deal with. (Loud laughter and uproar.) Sir Thomas Lethbridge. — The conduct of this person (Mr. Hunt) is intolerable. It is dis- graceful. The Sheriff. — I hope Mr. Hunt will abstain from the use of such indecent language for the future. Mr. Hunt. — I will, Mr. Sheriff, if you muz- zle the bull-dogs that Sir Thomas has brought here to bark at me. (Renewed laughter, in the midst of which, Sir Thomas and Mr. Hunt looked at each other as fiercely as if they had been a pair of tigers about to tear one another to pieces.) Sir Thomas. — How dare you, sir, speak of my friends in such disgraceful terms ? Mr. Hunt (mimicking Sir Thomas). — You/ CONTESTED ELECTIONS. 163 You ! He, he, he ; ha, ha, ha. (Bursts of laughter.) Mr. Russell (a friend of Sir Thomas). — Down with the fellow. Down with the vagabond. Mr. Hunt (pointing to Mr. Russell). — Just look at the cowardly ruffian. There's a rascal for you. Don't, my excellent friends, inflict the slightest punishment on the low-bred scamp. Knowing that Mr. Hunt meant the reverse of what he said, one of his supporters knocked Mr. Russell's hat over his eyes and ears, and another ably seconded his purposes by tearing the tails of his coat and throwing them at Sir Thomas. A Voice. — Mr. Hunt is the greatest black- guard in Christendom. Mr. Hunt (looking in the direction of the place whence the sound proceeded). — Would that gentleman just favour us with a sight of his face ? No response was made to Mr. Hunt's ap- peal. 164 CONTESTED ELECTIONS. Another Voice. — Hunt ? Mr. Hunt. — I hear you. The Voice. — Your heart's a great deal blacker than your blacking. Mr. Hunt. — If I only had the brazen-faced rascal here, I'd take the shine out of him with- out any loss of time. Oh, wouldn't I. (Laugh- ter.) Mr. Hunt then proceeded to read a copy of a letter, reflecting on the conduct of Mr. Messi- ter, a banker in Ilchester, a strenuous supporter of Sir Thomas Lethbridge. Mr. Messiter. — It's all a falsehood, you con- temptible fellow ; and you know it. Mr. Hunt. — Doodle, doodle, dee. (Roars of laughter.) A gentleman, standing on the table, then said — " Hunt, you're a vagabond of the first water. I'll meet you to-morrow morning if you Hke. Mr. Hunt. — Baa ! baa ! baa ! (Renewed roars of laughter.) CONTESTED ELECTIONS. 165 Mr. Messiter. — You are the greatest villain that ever escaped the gallow^s. Mr. Hunt. — Go home and mind your rags (meaning Mr. Messiter's bank notes), you old vs^oman in man's clothes. (Loud laughter.) Mr. Messiter. — I'm not afraid to look you, you hoary-headed rogue, in the face. Mr. Hunt. — It's not the first time you've looked a rogue in the face vy^hen sitting oppo- site your brother Dick. (Shouts of laughter.) Mr. Messiter. — It's like fighting w^ith a chimney-sweep to contend v^ith this worthless fellow ; — a man gets blackened all over. The scoundrel ought to be sent at once to " Where ? " interrupted Mr. Hunt. Mr. Messiter. — To the place your own conscience tells you you ought to have been sent to long ago ; to the " To the House of Commons," suggested Mr. Hunt, preventing the other from com- pleting his sentence. Mr. Messiter. — No; but to a place which, 166 CONTESTED ELECTIONS. for the sake of others, I will not name ; a place, however, where all is as black as your own heart or your own blacking. (Loud laughter.) Sir Thomas Lethbridge. — There's no use, gentlemen, in trying to put this ruffian to shame. You can make no impression on him. His mind is as impervious as the hide of a rhinoce- rous. Mr. Hunt (looking Sir Thomas in the face, and putting his physiognomy into a most ludi- crous shape). — Ba, ba, boo ; boo, boo, ba ! (Roars of laughter.) Sir Thomas.— The fellow (Mr. Hunt) is not a fit associate for even chimney-sweeps. He is a thoroughly contemptible animal. Mr. Hunt. — I say. Sir Thomas. Sir Thomas. — Well, sir, say on. Mr. Hunt. — Will you listen for a moment ? General cries of " Hear him. Hear him." Mr. Hunt, — Sir Thomas is afraid to hear. Sir Thomas. — You utter a falsehood, you low-minded and low-mannered scamp ; and, CONTESTED ELECTIONS. 167 what is more, you know it. I would feel ashamed of myself if I could be afraid of any- thing which a contemptible fellow like you could say. Mr, Hunt. — But will you hear me, old leatherbreeches ? (Loud laughter.) Will you lend me your long ears for a single moment? (Renewed roars of laughter, in which the Sheriff and all the friends of Sir Thomas joined.) Sir Thomas, annoyed by the epithet " long " ears, especially as his own friends could not refrain from joining in the peals of laughter which proceeded from the assemblage, took no notice of his antagonist's appeal. Mr. Hunt. — He is silent. I told you, gen- tlemen, he was afraid of what I was going to say. Sir Thomas (with great energy, and evi- dently under the deepest mortification). — You lie, you old ruffian. Mr. Hunt (with a most provoking coolness). — Then will you hear me ? 168 CONTESTED ELECTIONS. Sir Thomas. — Say on, you consummate vagabond. The attention of the vast assemblage was now wound up to the highest pitch, every one expecting that Mr. Hunt was about to say something of the greatest importance. In the midst of this breathless attention, Mr. Hunt, putting on the oddest imaginable expression of countenance, and, pointing with his fore-finger to Sir Thomas, who stood only a few feet from him, said, in the most comic tones of voice — ** Bow, wow, wow ! " No words can convey any idea of the ludicrous effect of this extraordinary sally of Mr. Hunt. The thousands present burst forth in one loud and simultaneous roar of laughter, which lasted fur several minutes. When tlie assemblage had literally laughed till, from physical exhaustion, they could laugh no more. Sir Thomas said — " If, gentlemen, any other person present were to conduct himself as this extraordinary animal has done, I should feel bound to take notice of CONTESTED ELECTIONS. 169 it; but this despicable ruffian is privileged to do or say with impunity what he pleases. Mr. Hunt.— What did I say, Sir Thomas ? Sir Thomas. — You said " Bow, wow, wow ! " cried Mr. Hunt, inter- rupting Sir Thomas, and again pointing to him in the irresistibly ludicrous manner he had done before. Renewed roars of laughter proceeded from all parts of the meeting. Sir Thomas. — I appeal to you, Mr. Sheriff, whether an end ought not to be put to these disgraceful proceedings. Mr. Hunt. — You have called me, Sir Thomas, an extraordinary animal. Sir Thomas. — And so you are, and one of the worst and vilest of the animal species. Mr. Hunt. — You're a fowl (pronounced fool). You belong to the feathered tribe. (Laughter and uproar.) You're a porcupine, Sir Thomas, and before I've done with you I'll make you look like one. VOL. II. I f 170 CONTESTED ELECTIONS. Renewed uproar and peals of laughter fol- lowed, in the midst of which the Sheriff, by adjourning the hall, put an end to the proceed- ings for that day. The result of the contest is generally known. Mr. Hunt, after two or three days polling (the voting for counties at that time lasted for fifteen days), seeing his adversary too far in advance of him, to justify the most slender expectation of an eventual triumph, retired from the field of conflict. Joseph Jenkins, finding that his occupation in Ilchester, like that of Othello's, was gone, in consequence of the unexpected retirement of Mr. Hunt, proceeded to a neighbouring town, to watch and report the proceedings of an elec- tion there, which, it was generally known, could not, from the equally divided state of parties, fail to be very keenly and closely contested. The Hon. Mr. Abingdon stood in the Tory interest, and Mr. Movement was the Liberal candidate. The colours of the CONTESTED ELECTIONS. 171 former were blue, and those of the latter yel- low. Never in the annals of electioneering contests had there been a more equal conflict. From the commencement to the close of the polling, neither candidate, though the consti- tuency consisted of 852 good and true electors, got a dozen votes a-head of the other. What added to the intense interest felt in the issue of the contest, was the circumstance of the candi- dates being, until near the close of the election, alternately two or three in advance of each other. It is unnecessary to add, that the un- certainty of the result led to the most extra-^ ordinary exertions on the part of the friends of either candidate. To be sure, Mr. Movement was decidedly the popular candidate among the non-electors, or the " swineish multitude, " as Burke used to call them. If their " sweet voices" had been worth anything, the Liberal candidate would have gained his election by a majority of twenty to one ; for it was ascer- tained by those who had had most experience 172 CONTESTED ELECTIONS. in such matters, that on the nomination day, though the constituency, as already remarked, consisted of only 852, the number of hands held up for Mr. Movement was at least from 15,000 to 16,000. In fact, there was only about a score of hands held up for his oppo- nent ; and these, instantaneously attracting towards them, as if by some unaccountable magnetic influence, a host of bludgeons belong- ing to the democracy, vanished with an electric rapidity. It was curious to see, that, on the days of polling, notwithstanding the disparity in the numbers of those who supported the respec- tive candidates on the day of nomination, they should be so nicely balanced, that, from the commencement till the close of the election, it was quite a toss-up which of them was destined to triumph. By the middle of the last day of polling, Mr. Abingdon's twenty supporters had increased to 402; while of Mr. Movement's 15,000 or 16,000 zealous friends, not more than 400 were, at the same CONTESTED ELECTIONS. 173 hour, found to have recorded, at the poll- ing booths, their names in his favour. The contest being thus so exceedingly close, the ex- citement in the town] was correspondingly great. There was scarcely a person in the place that did not become a decided partisan of either can- didate. Blue or yellow favours, according to the politics of the wearers, were to be seen affixed to every hat, or attached to the breast of the party's coat. On the close of the first day's voting, Mr. Abingdon, seeing himself only two ahead of his opponent, resolved on trying the effect of a copious propagation of porter on the* " state of the poll." The breweries of the place were all exhausted of their supplies, in order that the rabble should not, through want of the inspiration of porter, be wanting in zeal for the Tory candidate. The populace promptly drank Mr. Abingdon's porter ; but he found, by three o'clock on the following day, that, so far from their liberal libations bettering his condition on the poll, they had the effect of reducing his ma- 174 CONTESTED ELECTIONS. jority of two, at the close of the first day's pro- ceedings, to a minority of three, — the numbers standing thus : — Abingdon . . 421 Movement . . 424 The poll could only be kept open one hour longer; and it was ascertained that only four more electors could be expected to vote, the remaining few electors living at a distance from the place. What was to be done, under these desperate circumstances, to reduce the majority of the Liberal candidate ? Mr. Abingdon con- fidentially consulted with the chairman of his committee, and the result of their deliberations was, an unanimous resolution — unanimous we mean on the part of Mr. Abingdon and his chairman — that any amount of money that might be asked should be given for the remain- ing four votes. It was soon found that the minds of three of the electors were open to the conviction usually produced by the logic of gold : they were, in short, not only purchasable, but CONTESTED ELECTIONS. 175 promptly purchased. The fourth, and now the only outstanding elector, Adam Hogg, was not to be found : no one could tell whether he was to be forthcoming or not. Adam was a plain, blunt, honest, man, with a slight dash of eccentricity about him. He was a sort of coster- monger, and was daily to be seen driving his donkey and cart in the town or its neighbour- hood. He was neither Tory nor Liberal ; he was quite the creature of caprice. His con- duct, however, was always the result of honest impulses. Had the Tory candidate offered him thousands for his vote, the offer would hav« been indignantly rejected. Nor was there the slightest chance of reasoning him out of his opinions. Once formed, he clung to them with a desperate tenacity. No one, on the present occasion, was able to form an opinion as to the side on which he would vote, should he vote at all ; for, at previous elections, he had voted for Tory or Liberal candidates, just as the whim happened to strike him. It was now within 176 CONTESTED ELECTIONS. ten minutes of the time for closing the poll, and the candidates were equal, the state of the poll standing thus: — Abingdon . 424 Movement . . 424 At this moment an announcement was made that Adam had been seen a few minutes pre- viously, and would presently make his appear- ance to vote. It is impossible to convey an idea of the intensity of the anxiety now felt by the friends of the respective candidates. It was visibly depicted in every countenance. Not more grave could the assembled thousands have looked had they been in momentary expectation of a sentence of death being pronounced upon them. The stillness which now everywhere reigned, was made more striking by reason of the uproar and confusion which so recently pre-^ vailed. The contrast was remarkable in the highest degree, and the more so because of the suddenness of the transition from the pre- vious noise and bustle to the present death-like CONTESTED ELECTIONS. 177 silence and stillness. At the very moment that this absorbing anxiety had reached its height ; when, indeed, the friends of both candidates — and, of course, the candidates themselves — were in an agony of suspense ; at that very moment Adam Hogg was descried at a distance of some hundred yards advancing, astride on his donkey, towards the polling place. Every bosom now beat with, if possible, increased anxiety. The alternations of hope and fear, as the decisive moment approached, succeeded each other with a terrible rapidity and power. A few seconds more, and Adam had advanced sufficiently near to enable the more quick-sighted of the Tory party to discover a profusion of Mr. Abingdon's favours around the donkey's ears. Intelligence of the fact, as if by some invisible telegraph, was communicated with the rapidity of thought to the mind of every Tory present, and a tre- mendous shout of applause instantly burst from their throats. In those plaudits the Liberals read the death-warrant of their hopes, — heard I 2 178 CONTESTED ELECTIONS. the death-knell of their expectations. A sickly paleness suddenly overcast their countenances. On the other hand, the faces of the Tories were flushed with the excess of their joy. So marked, indeed, was the contrast which the countenances of the Tories and Liberals now presented to each other, that the least experi- enced physiognomist might, from a hasty in- spection of the faces before him, have singled out, with unerring certainty, the Tories and the Liberals, and arranged them into their respec- tive classes. A few moments more, and Adam was in the centre of the crowd, making his way to the polling booth, amidst the deafening hurrahs of the Tories, and the groans and hisses of such of the Liberals as were able, in the ex- cess of their grief, to articulate sounds of any kind. To the Tory plaudits Adam responded by a succession of most hearty hurrahs, whirl- ing his hat at the same time, with desperate vehemence, around his head. Another mo- ment, and, without alighting from his jackass. CONTESTED ELECTIONS. 179 Adam, in answer to the question from the functionary officiating on the occasion, as to which of the candidates he wished to vote for, shouted, at the top of his voice, " For Move^ ment, to be sure ! Hurrah for Mr. Move- ment ! " To describe the scene which followed were out of the question ; it is impossible to form any adequate conception of it. Oh, the con- fusion and consternation of the Tories! Oh, the exultation of the Liberals ! Had the earth been in the act of opening up to receive the former into its capacious bosom, they could not have appeared more horror-struck. Had the heavens been showering down gold, in copious abundance, into the pockets of the latter, they could not have looked one whit more delighted. " You have made a mistake — ^you have voted for the wrong candidate," cried the chairman of Mr. Abingdon's committee, as soon as he had sufficiently recovered from his confusion to be able to speak. 180 CONTESTED ELECTIONS. " Oh, there's no mistake : I knows vat I'm about," said Adam, amidst the deafening cheers of the Movement party. "Why, you've voted contrary to your co- lours," remarked another of Mr. Abingdon's friends. " Vy, them'ere's not my colours ; they be my donkey's colours. Don't you see them about his long ears ? " Roars of laughter from the Liberals greeted this display of humour on the part of Adam. " You ought to be ," ** Mr. Movement for ever ! " shouted Adam, interrupting another of Mr. Abingdon's friends, who was about to address some condemnatory remark to him. " Sir," said a third of Mr. Abingdon's friends, addressing himself to Adam, "your conduct is most ," At that moment the clock struck four, when a loud shout simultaneously burst from a thou- CONTESTED ELECTIONS. 181 sand voices, — " Movement is the member ! " followed by a succession of the most tremen- dous peals of applause which ever greeted the triumph of a candidate. CHAPTER IX. Joseph's increasing embarrassments — Changes his lodgings — An adventure with a bailiff in his new lodgings. Ever since his connexion with the morning journal to which repeated reference has been made, Joseph had been living up to his means, and very often considerably above them. No one will be surprised at the result : he had been gradually getting into debt, and his debts had latterly become very troublesome to him, because his creditors had become very clamour- ous. Everyone who has studied the philosophy of debt, and especially those who have done so practically, must have been struck with the fact, that after one's pecuniary obligations have existed for a certain length of time, they not Joseph's new lodgings. 183 only subject the party to all the annoyance of being doggedly dunned for payment ; but they begin, by means of the expenses incurred in law proceedings instituted for their recovery, to in- crease in amount with an appalling rapidity. And if the practice of not paying one's debts until compelled by law, is allowed to go on for any length of time, the result will be the im- possibility of paying at all. No man ever yet continued for many years to act on the prin- ciple of not paying his just debts until forced to do so by the resistless compulsion of the law, without in the end becoming the victim of his own imprudence and his own want of honesty. Joseph was now in a fair way of being placed in this unpleasant pecuniary predicament. For a season, and a very long season too, he had managed by plausible promises toputoif his cre- ditors from time to time. He found, however, that obtaining their consent to a little longer time, was not synonymous with cancelling the obligations under which he lay to them. He, 184 Joseph's new lodgings. moreover, made the discovery, that just as the stream is stemmed for a time only to rush on- wards with greater force and rapidity when the obstruction is removed, or has been broken through, — so the temporary silence of creditors is sure to be succeeded by a far greater clamour than that which had been previously raised when demanding payment of the money due. Joseph now found himself in this situation. He had put off his creditors till they would be put off no longer ; and the remembrance of his oft-renewed and as often violated promises to pay, only served to make them more resolute in the determination to have their money by some means or other. The result of this was, that he was driven about from one lodging to another like a hunted hare. Bailiffs were constantly in quest of him ; and whenever he had reason to believe that his place of abode was discovered, there was no alternative but either to pay the debts for which he was most hotly pursued, or to seek a Joseph's new lodgings. 185 further respite from the persecution of bailiffs, by repairing to some new obscure lodgings. To have a pack of clamorous creditors con- stantly dogging one's steps, and ready like so many beasts of prey to pounce upon their victim the moment they can get him into their clutches, is a very uncomfortable condition to be in. So soliloquized Joseph ; and he was doubtless right. To be incessantly hunted by hungry creditors, resolved not on any account to relinquish their pursuit until they shall either get their money, or infix their talons in the person of their creditor ; to be in this situation, must be one of the most miserable situations in which a human being can be placed. But then, Joseph found it convenient to forget — and persons in his situation usually contrive to forget — that he was the aggressor ; that he first injured his creditors by getting into their debt, without ever bestov^dng a mo- ment's consideration as to whether or not there was any reasonable prospect of his ever being 186 Joseph's new lodgings. able to discharge the obligations which he came under to them. With the view of keeping as much as possible out of the reach of his creditors, who were now pursuing him more hotly than ever, Joseph re- solved on taking lodgings in the second floor of a miserable-looking house in the neighbourhood of Clare Market ; a place which he thought likely to be among the last suspected, inasmuch as both the house and the locality somewhat decidedly contrasted with his appearance and manners. The landlady was a short, stout, bust- ling middle-aged Irishwoman, named Phiddy O'Callaghan, who had not been many years in the metropolis, and who had for a still shorter period sought to earn a livelihood by letting furnished lodgings. She had only, indeed, sus- tained the latter character twelve months, com- mencing precisely three months after the death of her husband, who, according to her own account, was one of the greatest "jewels of a man that ever ould Ireland sent across the Joseph's new lodgings. 187 channel." Mrs. O'Callaghan, who flattered herself that she was a great physiognomist, — so great as to tell by the first glance of one's countenance whether he was a rogue or an honest man, — was exceedingly taken with Joseph, when, in compliance with the invitation addressed to him by a small piece of thick paper stuck up in the window, containing the brief an- nouncement — " Lodgings to let," — he presented himself at the door to ascertain the quality and terms of her lodgings. The feeling of satisfac- tion was reciprocal, Joseph being in that state of mind to be pleased with anything and every- body, provided he could only contrive to keep himself concealed from his creditors. Lest, however, his hiding-place should be discovered, he expressed to Mrs. O'Callaghan a particular wish, that on no account she should ever say to any one who might call, that he was within, add- ing that he had a great many friends who were desirous of intruding themselves into his com- pany whether he would or not. In fact, he 188 JOSEPH*S NEW LODGINGS. continued, his principal object in leaving his previous lodgings, and taking Mrs. O'Calla- ghan's, was to escape the visits of friends whose excessive anxiety to cultivate his acquaintance and to be in his society, was to him, who was fond of retirement, quite a bore. Joseph concluded by plainly intimating to Mrs. O'CuUaghan, that the term of their connexion as landlady and lodger would most probably altogether depend on her attention to his wishes in this respect, and on the success with which she should keep outside the door those who might manifest a very particular wish to have a little of his com- pany. " Lave that to me, sir, if you plase," said Mrs. O'Callaghan, in tones which clearly denoted that she was determined to carry Joseph's wishes fully into effect. " But may I," she continued, " be afther taking the lave of axing what's your honour's name?" " Oh, ay," answered Joseph ; " I forgot that Joseph's new lodgings. 189 very important part of the business. My name is Benjamin Brackenordorchy." " And, sure, a very good Christhian-like name it is, too," said Mrs. O'Callaghan, " though may be it is not aisy at first to get one's tongue about it." " A little practice," rem.arked Mr. Joseph, '* will overcome the difficulty." " Ay, throth, and you may be after saying that ; for practice will overcome anything." - Joseph inwardly demurred to the soundness of the position. Practised as he was at the attempt to quell the clamours of his credi- tors, he found himself not a whit more suc- cessful now than he was at the first. On the con- trary, he found they only grew the more difficult to manage, the longer he had to deal with them, and the more extensive his transactions be- came. All preliminaries being settled to the satis- faction of both parties, Joseph, in less than a couple of hours, took possession of his new 190 Itoseph's new lodgings. lodgings. Ashamed, however, both of his lodg- ings and the locality in which they were situ- ated, he resolved on concealing from even his most intimate acquaintances, the place of his new abode. With that view, he dated" all his letters from the office of the weekly journal with which he was connected, which, as a matter of course, secured the answers being sent to the same ad- dress. Creditors, however, are very prying people. There is no possibility of long concealing one- self from them. One of Joseph's creditors found out his new locality before he had been eight days in it; and it was surprising with what rapidity all the others made the same discovery. In fact, the discovery may be said to have been instantaneous. The calls on Joseph immediately became numerous. Mrs. O'Callaghan stoutly denied to one and all of the " friends of Mr. Jenkins," as they called themselves, that there was any such person, " hathen or Christhian," in her house. Joseph's new lodgings. 191 And this she did in perfect good faith; for she was still in ignorance of Joseph's real name. Some of the inquirers after Mr. Jenkins being ungallant enough to doubt Mrs. O'Callaghan's word, she called them " unbelieving infidels," and threatened, that if they did not go away " in pace, she would be after smothering every soul of them.'* In fact, from morning till night, was the door of Mrs. O'Callaghan's house a scene of perpetual squabbling between herself and persons desirous of being introduced, or, rather of being allowed to introduce themselves, to Joseph. One of the bailiffs, a little conceited pragmati- cal fellow, who had been remarkably regular in his visits three times every day — morning, noon, and night — ^but had always been kept at bay by Mrs. O'Callaghan, — determined one day to eifect an entrance by some means or other. Accord- ingly he presented himself at the door of the inaccessible house, and inquired, as before, whether Mr. Jenkins was within. 192 Joseph's new lodgings. " Sorrow Mr. Jenkins you, you impudent spalpleen, isn't it myself has told you twenty blessed times, that there's no such person in this Christhian house," " Is there any other person, then ? " inquired the server of writs. " What's that to you, ye unhanged rascal?" replied Mrs. O'Callaghan, in tones which told that she had been worked up to a pitch of the strongest excitement. ** It's everything to me, ma'am, and you'll very soon find that to your cost," said the other. " What do you mane, you worthless vaga- bone?" retorted Mrs. O'Callaghan. The man of writs, instead of answering the question, made an attempt to force his way past Mrs. O'Callaghan, who was standing holding the door half open in her hand. He succeeded so far as to effect an entrance, and to reach the first step of the stairs, when, just as in the act of putting his right foot on it, Mrs. O'Callaghan Joseph's new lodgings. 193 flew at him like a tigress, and, seizing him by the tails of the coat, pulled him back with such force, as to cause him to fall in the passage in the most awkward manner which it were possi- ble to imagine. He, however, speedily regained his feet, and made another attempt to force his way up-stairs, when Mrs. O'Callaghan, snatch- ing up a child's chair which lay at her feet, hurled it at him with all the strength which she possessed. It hit the poor little bailiff" with tremendous effect on an anonymous place. The blow had the effect of stunning him for the moment, when Mrs. O'Callaghan laid hold of him * a second time. A scuffle ensued, in the midst of which, the landlady screamed aloud, " Help ! Help ! Murther ! Murther ! Mr, Braknorky (Brackenordorchy), if you don't come to my assistance immadiately, I'll be kilt entirely." No answer was made to Mrs. O'Callaghan's adjuration, at which she was very much asto- nished. She renewed the appeal, but with no better success. At length the bailiff" achieved VOL. II. K 194 Joseph's new lodgings. his release from her grasp, and bounded up- stairs with the agility of a grey -hound. Mrs. O'Callaghan followed as hard at his heels as her short fat person would permit, showering upon him all the way, the most copious and most Varied abuse. The other had the impudence to enter, without knocking, at the door, or waiting to learn whether or not his presence would be agreeable, to every accessible apartment in the house. Hitherto he had searched without suc- cess. No Mr. Jenkins, nor Mr. Brackenordor- chy, nor Mr. Any-body-else, was to be seen. Joseph, who had overheard the squabble at the front door between the bailiff and his land- lady, immediately secreted himself in a large cupboard in a room on the second floor. The moment the bailiff had reached the landing of the third floor, he crept out of his hiding- place, and was in the act of making his escape down-stairs, when an idea suddenly struck him. He felt assured that his enemy would make a general search in the upper part of the house. Joseph's new lodgings. 195 not even omitting the particular apartment in which a newly-married pair — an able-bodied Irishman, Patrick Shannon, and his young wife — resided. Joseph knew, moreover, that Mrs. Shannon, who was pretty as well as young, and possessed great spirit, was within, and that the husband was employed in a house hard by. He, therefore, determined to carry out the idea he had formed, stole softly up the stairs, and at- tentively listened to the sound of the bailiff's footsteps, or to his voice. In a few seconds he heard him walk into Mrs. Shannon's apartment, which was bed-room and all. The newly-mai;^ ried young woman was at work with her needle. In a moment more, he heard Mrs. Shannon roundly abusing the little man of writs, for daring to intrude into her room ; while he was most energetically asserting that he had done so in the performance of his duty, and was only looking out for a friend to whom he wished to say a few words. " Thunder and lightning," exclaimed Mrs. Shannon, "and is it here you're 196 Joseph's new lodgings. after seeking your friends? May be if Pat Shannon happen to drop in, and find you in this same place, it were better for you if you had been at a rasonable distance from it, you — " The sudden shutting of the door, by some invisible agency, followed by the instantaneous turning of the lock, prevented Mrs. Shannon from finishing her sentence. " By the powers ! " she exclaimed, " what does this mane ? " The bailiff was too much confounded to utter a word. " Spake, sir," resumed Mrs. Shannon, ener- getically ; " and by the blessed Virgin, tell me what brought you here. It is'nt for no good, I'll be bound." " I came to inquire for Mr. Jenkins," stam- mered the bailiff. " That's all a thundering lie, and ye know it. You had better take yourself out of this as fast as you came in ; for by , if Paddy Shannon chance to come in and find you here, he'll glue your heels to the ceiling in a jiffey." Joseph's new lodgings. 197 "But how shall I get out ?" inquired the man of writs, in great alarm. " The way you got in," replied Mrs. Shan- non, drily. The bailiff attempted to open the door, but the latter was obstinate. It was, as already re- marked, locked on the outside. " The door arn't open," said he, in piteous tones. " Ah, then, my husband will be here imma- diately, and sure he won't be long in opening it for you." The * servant of the law ' trembled from* head to foot. While this dialogue was going on, another was taking place between Joseph and his land- lady on the landing of the second floor. " What can the brute baste," — to wit, the bailiff,— -" mane by acting in this way?" in- quired Mrs. O'Callaghan. " He can mean no good; that's clear," replied Joseph. 198 Joseph's new lodgings. " Och, and your right there, any how. It's as plain as a Kerry mountain. — Maister Bracken- ordorchy," said Mrs. O'Callaghan, with a special emphasis, after a moment's pause. " Yes, ma'am." " "Will you be after answering me one ques- tion I'm going to ax ? " " If I can, Mrs, O'Callaghan," said Joseph. " Can you inform me what's the reason why so many persons call for a Mr. Jenkins, and seem so very anxious to see him, while not a mother's son ever inquires after you, Mr. Brack- enordorchy, though you expected a power of visitors?" " Your question, Mrs. O'Callaghan, is too difficult for me to answer." "Do you know, or did you ever hear of, any gentleman of the name of Jenkins ? " "Oh, I have heard of several gentlemen of that name," replied Joseph. "But, Mrs. O'Cal- laghan, had you not better send immediately for Mrs. Shannon's husband, and inform him Joseph's new lodgings. 199 that some rude ruffian has forced his way into his wife's room ? " " Och, sure and sirtain, I forgot that ! Fear- gus, my darlint," continued Mrs. O'Callaghan, thrusting her head down-stairs as far as it could safely go, and addressing herself to a ragged boy, her only son, about eight years of age, who was in the parlour. " Yes, mother," said the urchin, opening the door, and looking attentively up-stairs to the party who first introduced him into the world. "Run, haste, fly, my jewel! and tell Pat Shannon that there's a hathen-looking man locked in the room with his wife." "Yes, mother," said the boy; but scarcely had the affirmative response to Mrs. O'Calla- ghan's appeal to her son been yielded by the latter, than the street-door opened, and Mr. Shannon entered, Mr. Shannon was a good-looking athletic man, dressed in the habiliments of a day- labourer, whose countenance seemed to express, SOO Joseph's new lodgings. as plainly as if the fact had been written on his forehead in legible characters, that he was a man about whose determination of character there could be no mistake. " Och, and may St. Patrick and all the blessed saints be praised for another sight of yer honest face, Pat Shannon," exclaimed Mrs. O'Callaghan, in joyous accents, as the other entered. "What's the matter, Mrs. O'Callaghan," inquired Pat, eagerly. "Is it what's the matter yer after axing, when yer jewel of a wife's in danger of her life in resisting the indacent liberties of as great a blackguard as ever disgraced the ground he trod on ? He's locked himself into the room with her." Pat needed not another word. He sprung up the three pair of stairs with the rapidity of thought, turned the lock (Joseph had left the key in the door), and rushed into the room, pouncing like a bear upon the poor bailiff, and Joseph's new lodgings. 201 exclaiming, as he seized him by the throat, — " What brought you here, you big blackguard ? " The little officious, self-consequential per- sonage, seeing himself suddenly in the hands of a huge infuriated Irishman, trembled from head to foot. He was too terrified to utter a word. At length the brief sentence struggled through his pent-up throat — " I only came into the house in the execution of my duty." " And was it your duty, you mighty big ruffian, to lock yourself into the room with my wife ? Phiddy, my honey," turning to his wife, " did he hurt you at all at all ?" "Faith and he didn't, for I wouldn't let him," replied Mrs. Shannon. It never occurred to Pat, that the bailiff could hardly have locked himself in, when he found the key outside the door. " I'll explain all if you'll only allow me," cried the affrighted little man. " To purgatory with your explanations, you ugly-looking monster," said Mr. Shannon, and k2 202 Joseph's new lodgings. with that he threw the other on the ground. " Now, you big rogue," he continued, shaking his fist in the face of the prostrate and half- expiring baiUfF; " now, you big rogue, will you ever meddle with my wife again ?" " I did not— did not " The little writ-deliverer was about to attempt a denial and explanation, but was interrupted by Pat, who again demanded, on pain of grind- ing the bailiif into powder, an answer to his question, whether he would ever again ven- ture, uninvited, into the presence of his wife. " I did not, I " The bailifi" was again in the act of attempting a denial and explanation, when Mr. Shannon a second time, shaking his clenched fist in his face, repeated his demand for an answer to his question. "Never," said the bailifi". "Then, you brute baste," said Pat, with- drawing a few steps so as to let him rise, " then you brute baste, you may go about your business Joseph's new lodgings. 203 this time, after you have fallen on your knees and asked Phiddy's pardon ; but remimber, that if I ever see you here again, I'll show you a quicker road to the street than down the stairs." " And sure, a passage out of the window is just what the baste desarves," said Mrs. O'Cal- laghan, who had all this time been a silent spec- tator of what was going on, — doubtless from a conviction that the bailiff could not be in better hands. " Down on your knees, you blackguard, and ax Phiddy's pardon," said Pat, in authorative^ accents. " I assure you " " I want none of the assurances ov' the likes ov' ye, ye unmannerly vagabone. Down on yer knees this moment, or I'll throw ye out at the window the next." The poor terrified, trembling bailiff, deeming the former alternative to be, on the whole, pre- ferable to the latter, fell down on his knees, and -04 Joseph's new lodgings. looked up to Pat, as if waiting further instruc- tions. " Now, you baste, ax Phiddy's pardon," said the indignant husband. " I humbly beg your pardon, ma'am, if I have offended you in any way," said the af- frighted official, in piteous accents. " Rise up, ye spalpeen, and never let us see your ugly face again." And as the bailiff, shaking like an aspen leaf, arose and was hurrying out of the room, Pat, by way of a parting salute, gave him a whack on the head, which sent both his hat and his wig — for he wore a wig — down-stairs before him. Never did human being, not literally thrown down-stairs, or out of the window, make a more rapid descent from a third floor, than did the little bailiff on this occasion. He was in infinitely too great a hurry to pick up either hat or wig ; but rushed into the street, and flew into the arms of a policeman who chanced to be passing at the moment. The unanimous Joseph's new lodgings. 205 opinion of the spectators, of whom there was soon a goodly number, was, that the hatless, bald- headed, excited stranger, had just escaped from som^ lunatic asylum, or from the custody of his friends. The policeman considerately threw a handkerchief around his head, and escorted him, followed by a crowd of boys wondering what it could be all about, to the house of a friend in the neighbourhood. It is quite super- fluous to add, that the bailiff did not repeat his visit to the domicile of Mrs. O'Callaghan. CHAPTER X. Joseph falls into arrears with his landlady — Unpleasant con- sequences — Awkward affair. Matters went on with tolerable smoothness between Joseph and Mrs. O'Callaghan during the first nine or ten weeks of their relationship as landlady and lodger ; but the latter, having fallen in arrears, not only for the rent (four and sixpence per week) of his apartment, but for a variety of " sundries" which Mrs. O'Callaghan had procured for him from her own tradesmen, she began to think less favourably of him. Still, not wishing to lose a lodger if there was any probability of making his payments good, she thought it would be better to try the effect of a civil hint or two about payment, than to JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. S07 come to an open rupture with him at once. Ac- cordingly, she one morning knocked at his door, and, being invited in, said, in honied accents, that she must ax his pardon for what she was going to say, but she was sure that a gintleman like him would be afther pardoning a poor widow woman. " Oh, certainly, Mrs. O'Callaghan," said Joseph, without waiting to hear what his land- lady was about to say. " Ah, an' its sir tain sure I was, that a gin- tleman like you would jist do that same," remarked Mrs. O'Callaghan. " But what were you going to say, Mrs» O'Callaghan ? " inquired Joseph. " Well, sir, an' if yer honour would not be takin' it amiss, T was going to say that it would be a great obligement to me if it would be con- vanient to you to pay me my small bill of three pound six and sevenpence.'* " Oh, ay, to be sure. Really, Mrs. O'Calla- ghan," said Joseph, a good deal surprised by 208 JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. the application, coupled with a consciousness of his inability to pay it, "really, Mrs. O'Cal- laghan, I owe you an apology for having allowed it to run on so long." " I'll not trouble you, sir, for any 'pology," said Mrs. O'Callaghan, not having any definite ideas of what the word apology meant, "if you can only make it convanient to pay the bill." " I'm really sorry, exceedingly sorry," said Joseph, " but it is not in my power to settle the little matter just now, having been making some large payments lately." " I would not," pursued Mrs. O'Callaghan, " been afther axing it from you, but I have my rint to pay next week." " Oh, next week 1" exclaimed Joseph ; " by that time I'll have plenty of money, and I give you my solemn promise you shall be honour- ably paid next week." " Thank you, Mr. Brackendorchy. It's a very grate favour you'll be doing a poor honest woman. Good mornin', sir." JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. 209 " Good morning, Mrs. O'Callaghan." The latter had descended several steps of the stair, when, a thought suddenly striking her, she hastily returned, and re-opening the door of Joseph's apartment and thrusting her head inside, said — " Yer sure and sirtain, Mr. Brackenorchy, I've not offended you by axing the thrifle ? " " Oh, not in the least — not in the least, I assure you, Mrs. O'Callaghan," replied Joseph, in emphatic tones. Thus re-assured, Mrs. O'Callaghan retired one of the happiest women in London, — or out * of it. Three pounds some odd shillings was just the sum she wanted to make up her rent, and she now looked forward to quarter-day without, what she herself called, a ^' taste of fear." Next week came, and so did the eve of quar- ter-day. Still there were no symptoms of Joseph's bill being about to be paid. He came home that evening at the unusually early hour 210 JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. of eight ; but it was now ten, and he had made no allusion to his promise of last week. " Shall I ax him agin for the money ?" inquired Mrs. O'Callaghan, addressing herself to herself. " No, you'd betther not," she replied. " May be, Judy O'Callaghan, ho*ll be afther paying you early to-morrow morninV she resumed, coU' tinning the self-sustained dial ogue. And having come finally to the resolution to wait till she should see what the morning would do for her, Mrs. O'Callaghan went to bed. To-morrow came, as every to-morrow will,, until the death-knell of time itself shall sound. Having gone to bed the previous evening much earlier than usual, Joseph got up at the (to him) very early hour of ten in the morning. Mrs. O'Callaghan watched his every motion, lest he should slip out unknown to her. Every mo- ment she expected, or rather hoped, she should be summoned into his presence to receive pay- ment of her bill. No such summons came ; but JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. 211 by-and-by Joseph himself was heard descending the stairs on his way out. "Mr. Brackenordorchy," said Mrs. O'Calla- ghan, just as he was in the act of opening the door. " I ax your pardon, sir, but you have forgotten to settle the thrifling account you so kindly promised me'; and this is the day I have to pay my rint. Would it be convanient now,'* "Upon my honour, Mrs. O'Callaghan, I'm exceedingly sorry I cannot at this moment. I've been disappointed in a large sum due to me ; but you may rely on it on Wednesday next, as on that day I am to receive ^100 for a new work about to appear, of which I am the author. Will you take my word once more ? " " And sure I must, Mr. Brackenordorchy, if I can get nothing betther," replied Mrs. O'Calla- ghan, drily." " I won't deceive you, Mrs O'Callaghan." " I've only your own word for it, which you know I had before," said Mrs* O'Callaghan, sarcastically. 2\2 JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. " An accident only has made me break it," remarked Joseph. " An' may not an aksident do the same agin ? " repHed the lodging-house keeper. " Impossible — quite impossible," returned Joseph, " My money on Wednesday next is as sure as the bank." " An' mine too ?" inquired Mrs. O'Callaghan, with an air of doubt, " As certainly as the sun now shines. Good morning, Mrs, O'Callaghan," " Good mornin' to ye," responded the latter. Immediately on Joseph shutting the door as he went out, Mrs. O'Callaghan hurried up-stairs to inform Mrs. Shannon, the occupant of the apartment on the third floor, of what had passed between Joseph and herself. They were not only both natives of the Emerald Isle, but were "flowers of the Kerry mountains;" and what was more still, were friends of the first water. " But what did he mane ? " inquired Mrs. JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. 213 Shannon, after attentively listening to Mrs. O'Callaghan's narrative of what had occurred between her and Joseph at the street-door ; ** what did he mane by calling himself an athor ? " "Och, sure, an' isn't that the very thing that's been puzzlin' meself," replied Mrs. O'Callaghan. " The athor of some work, did he say ? " " An' sure he did say that blessed same." " Do ye know what he does work at ? " pur- sued Mrs. Shannon. " Sorrow a bit iv me does," answered Mrs. O'Callaghan. "But it cannot be much good, for he never comes home at nigfd till late in the mornin*' "Mrs. O'Callaghan," said Mrs. Shannon, looking very serious and speaking with a pecu- liar emphasis. " Yes, darlint." " Shiver me to pieces iv I likes that word at all at all," said Mrs. Shannon. " What word, my jewel ? " 214 JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. ** That ugly spalpeen of a word, athor ! " " Nather do I, honey," remarked Mrs. O'Callaghan. " I wish that somebody would explain its manin." " Do you know, Mrs. O'Callaghan, that I think it manes a murtherer." " The blessed Virgin and the holy saints pro- tect us ! " cried Mrs. O'Callaghan, starting from her chair, and eagerly crossing herself. " What makes you think so, Mrs. Shannon," inquired the other, as soon as her alarm would permit her to put the question. " Because," said Mrs. Shannon, " as I was passing his door late last night, I overheard him spaking to himself; and wondering what could be the matther, I listened a little time, and heard him spaking about athors and murthers in the same breath." " May the blessed Virgin be with us ! " cried Mrs. O'Callaghan, crossing herself a second time. " Are you sure yer ears have not de- saved you ? " JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. 215 t( I'll sware it on the holy cross. And may be if you listen to-night at his door, he may be heard agin spaking to himself." " Thakleen, my jewel, will you sit up with me till he comes home to-night, and we'll both listen at his door together. Its dangerous to have a hathen in the house that spakes to him* self about murthers and murtherers." Mrs. Shannon agreed to Mrs. O'Callaghan's proposal, and both accordingly awaited with the deepest anxiety the return of Joseph. He came home for the night at half-past ten, hav- ing some literary matters which required his immediate attention. Joseph was in the habit of speaking to himself, or as some prefer ex- pressing it, thinking aloud; and the only won- der was, that neither Mrs O'Callaghannor Mrs. Shannon had, in passing up and down the stairs, before overheard him when so employed. Soon after Joseph had entered his room, he locked the door. The turning of the key was the signal for the two ladies to take their sta- 216 JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. tion on the landing of the second floor. All the lights in the house, with the exception of that belonging to Joseph, had been previously put out. The pair of sentinels had not been two seconds at Joseph's door, when he re-com- menced his confirmed habit of speaking to him- self. He was, however, it ought to be here remarked, addicted to the practice of suddenly lowering his voice ; and the result was that only particular words of his sentences were generally caught. " Yes," he began, walking as he usually did through the room on such occasions, " I shall commit the robbery first and the mur- der afterwards." " Mercy on us," whispered Mrs. O'Callaghan, " do you hear that ? " " Hush I " said Mrs. Shannon, " or you'll spoil it all," putting her hand on the mouth of the other. " The devil's sure to be here," ejaculated Joseph. " May everything that's good be about us," JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. 217 gasped the landlady. *' The devil and he is intimate friends." " Hold your pace, woman," said Mrs. Shan- non, who exhibited a wonderful coolness on the occasion ; " hold your pace, or we'll have no proofs against him." Joseph continued — "As for the sheets, I'll throw them out of the window." "Phiddy! Phiddy!" cried Mrs. O'Calla- ghan, restraining herself with difficulty from speaking aloud — " he's thrown my best linen sheets, which cost seven and sixpence, out of the window. Och, run down, jewel, and pick them . up. " Hold your tongue, ye foolish woman," whis- pered Mrs. Shannon, angrily ; " he only says he will throw them out of the window." " And," resumed Joseph, " he'll pick them up. " There they go ; there they go," said Mrs. O'Callaghan ; " they'll be picked up in a mo- ment." And she hurried down-stairs and rushed VOL. II. L 218 JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. into the street, to catch the assistant robber. To her surprise, neither thief nor sheets were to be seen. She again softly stole up-stairs, and took her station beside Mrs. Shannon. '' And as for that old Irish hag, Mrs. O'Cal- laghan, I'll " " Oh, the blackguard! Oh, the black- guard ! " roared Mrs. O'Callaghan, in tones that Joseph could not have failed to hear, but for the noise caused by the heaviness of his own foot- steps, and the loudness of his own voice, in con- junction with the deep reverie in which he happened to be at the moment. " * That old Irish hag, Mrs. O'Callaghan,' indeed! And that's the return which the brute baste makes for my laniency to him ! Oh, the black-hearted vagabone ! I'll be revinged upon him : by the powers, I will ! " " Yes," continued Joseph, " I'll soon settle her hash for her." "What does he mane by that?" inquired Mrs. O'Callaghan of her fellow-sentinel. JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. 219 " I don't understand that," replied Mrs. Shannon. " ril close her mouth ; /'// stop the waggings of her vile tongue," pursued Joseph. " Mrs. Shannon, do ye hear the ugly ruffian ? What can he mane ? " " Hush, hush," said Mrs. Shannon, " and we'll hear it all presently." Joseph continued. — " The only thing about which I have any doubt is, as to the mode of the murder — whether it should be done by strangling, or blowing out her brains. Oh," after a moment's pause, " I'll blow out her brains at once. A bullet's the thing. It does its work neatly, and no mistake." Loud cries of " Murther ! murther ! " pro- ceeding from the stairs, prevented Joseph from completing his soliloquy. Mrs. O'Callaghan and Mrs. Shannon ran a neck-and-neck race down the stairs, screaming ** Murther ! murther ! " all the way ; nor did they slacken either their pace, or their screaming, until they had reached 220 JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. the middle of the street. Joseph, with candle in hand, hurried to the door of his apartment, and, without taking time to turn the key, burst open the door. Nobody, however, was to be seen, though he was certain that the screams of murder which had just broken so alarm- ingly on his ears, had issued from the stairs. After a moment's hesitation, he ran down- stairs, found the street door open, and, on look- ing outside, saw Mrs. O'Callaghan and Mrs. Shannon surrounded by a large assemblage of persons. " That's him ; that's the murtherer," cried both ladies in chorus, addressing two po- licemen, the moment Joseph presented him- self at the door. The mob made a rush at him, and, but that the policemen got him pushed in- side the house in time to save him, would, on the Lynch-law principle, have torn him to pieces on the instant. Joseph was told by the police- men that he must go to the Bow Street station- house, on a charge of attempting to murder his landlady. Utterly confounded at all this, he JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. 221 inquired the meaning of such extravagant conduct. " Och, you villain ! " shouted Mrs. O'Calla- ghan, " and it's nobody knows the maning of it better than yourself." " And wasn't you," cried Mrs. Shannon ; " wasn't you going to murther this dacent woman ? " pointing to Joseph's landlady. Joseph vehemently protested that there was no truth in the charge : that any attempt or wish to murder his landlady was the most unfounded and preposterous idea that ever entered the head of a human being. The policemen, however, heeded not his pro- testations. They dragged him away to the station-house, ironically remarking, that he would have an opportunity, on the following day, of convincing the magistrate of his inno- cence. The reader is left to form the best idea he can of the state of mind in which our hero spent the night. The whole affair was still wrapt up 222 JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. in as much mystery as ever. Cliarged with attempting the life of Mrs. O'Callaghan ! Why, he felt that he might, with equal justice, have been charged with contemplating the as- sassination of his sovereign. Whatever might be his other errors or crimes — and there were seasons when his conscience told him they were neither few nor small — he felt that he was as innocent as the child unborn of ever harbouring the idea, far less of attempting to carry it into execution, of taking away the life of a fellow- creature. Still, notwithstanding this conscious- ness of his innocence, he spent a most miserable night. He put his ingenuity to the rack, in attempting to imagine on what grounds so fearful a charge had been preferred against him. He could recollect nothing in his conduct, ever since he had become a lodger of Mrs. O'Calla- ghan, which could afford the slightest pretext for so grave a charge. Nor was the load of wretchedness which lay upon him, lessened by the remembrance of several instances in which JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. ''*^' innocent persons had been convicted and even executed. The crime with which he was charged was not, it was true, at that time, a capital offence. Still the punishment might be transportation for seven or fourteen years ; and he did not, by any means, relish the idea of being sent across the seas for either term ; more especially for an offence of which he was as in- nocent as the magistrate himself, before whom he was to be brought on the following day. The following day came in due course, and so did the moment at which Joseph was summoned into the presence of the magistrate. The charge of attempting to murder his landlady, — though, strictly speaking, even supposing Madams O'Callaghan and Shannon's version of matters to have been correct, it ought only to have been " meditating the murder," &c., — the charge of attempting to murder Mrs. O'Callaghan was again preferred. Joseph reiterated to the magistrate what he had protested to the policemen, that the accusation was not only 224f JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. unfounded, but that he had not the slightest idea on what it was grounded. " We shall at all events," said the magistrate, " soon learn the grounds of the charge, whether it be well founded or otherwise. Prosecutrix," addressing Mrs. O'Callaghan, " state the par- ticulars of this case." Mrs. O'Callaghan. — Yes, yer honour. Here the prosecutrix paused. Magistrate. — Well, go on ; proceed. Mrs. O'Callaghan. — Well, this gintleman, Mr. Braknorky (so she generally pronounced it), comes to me ten or twelve weeks ago, and says, says he, "I sees * Lodgings to let' in your win- dow ; what may be the commodashun and the rint, and what " Here the magistrate interrupted Mrs. O'Cal- laghan, telling her that he did not want to hear anything about ten or twelve weeks ago, or taking the lodgings, but that he wished her to confine herself to the circumstances which had led to the charge preferred against the prisoner. JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. 225 Mrs. O'Callaghan. — I ax your worship's par- don; I'll state the partiklars intirely, and nothin' else. Well, yer honour, the gintleman owes me eight weeks' rint, and a great many thrifles besides ; and, two or three weeks ago, T says to him, * Mr. Braknorky, may I " The Court does not," interrupted the magis- trate, " want to hear anything about the state of pecuniary matters between you." " Pecuniary matters, did yer worship say?" said Mrs. O'Callaghan, interrupting the m.a- gistrate in her turn. " Would yer honour be so obliging as to be afther telling me what that manes ? " Magistrate. — Why, money matters, to be sure. Mrs. O'Callaghan. — Does your worship mane the rint of my lodgings ? Magistrate. — Yes, certainly, that or any other debt he owes you ; but we don't want to hear anything about pecuniary matters just now. lS 226 JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. Mrs. O'Callaglian. — Heaven bless yer ho- nour's sow], I understand you now. Magistrate. — Well, proceed to state tlie cir- cumstances connected with the charge against the prisoner. Mrs. O'Callaghan. — I will, yer honour. The gintleman standin' there (pointing to Joseph) having owed me money for rint and other thrifles, I axed him one night, when it would be conwanient " " Now you are again," interposed the magis- trate, tartly, " wandering from the subject. Unless you come to the point at once, I'll dis- miss the case." " Then if you do, yer honour, my life's not safe for a second." " Then why don't you come to the case at once: " Well, now, yer worship, I will," said Mrs. O'Callaghan, " this very instant. This lady (pointing to Mrs. Shannon) and myself both heard him, at eleven o'clock last night, coming JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. 227 with a pistol in his hand to shoot my brains out, and we " " Heard him ! " interposed the magistrate ; ** heard him ! Did you not see him ? " " No, yer worship ; and, by the blessed Virgin, we did not wish to see him, either." " I don't understand this at all," said the magistrate. " Let the policeman, who was first on the spot, and took the prisoner into custody, tell the Court what he knows about the mat- ter. Policeman, stand up." The policeman accordingly stepped into the witness-box. Magistrate. — What do you know about this case, policeman ? ** Vy, your worship, as I was a-passing, on my beat, near the door of this woman (Mrs. O'Cal- laghan), she and the other woman came both running into the street, calling out * Murder !' In a few seconds afterwards, the prisoner rushed out after them, and the prosecutrix immedi- ately said, * That's him ; that's him ; take him in 228 JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. charge ; he's been attempting to murder me.' The other woman — that one (pointing to Mrs. Shannon) — said that she was a witness to the attempt, and would take her oath to it. A mob immediately collected about the place, and it was with difficulty that another policeman, who had just come up, and myself, could pre- vent the prisoner from being torn to pieces. We, therefore, took him into custody." Magistrate. — But did the prosecutrix tell you any of the particulars of the assault ? Policeman. — There was no assault, your worship. Magistrate. — No assault! What do you mean, when the prisoner is charged with at- tempting the murder of the prosecutrix ? Policeman. — After the prisoner had been locked up in the station-house, we found, your worship, that it was a case of meditating the murder of his landlady. Magistrate. — This is a very extraordinary business. The prisoner is charged with attempt- JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. 229 ing to murder the prosecutrix ; and yet you now tell me the charge against him is only that of meditating or contemplating the murder. Policeman. — The charge which she gave, your worship, and in support of which the other woman said she was ready to swear, was that of attempting to murder her ; but we after- wards found that it was only a case of medi- tating an attempt on her life. Magistrate. — Well, state what you know about the matter. Policeman. — What the prosecutrix has since stated to me was, that this other woman (Mrs. Shannon) having the night before overheard the prisoner walking through his room and speaking in a strange manner to himself, they both determined, on the evening in question, to listen outside his door. They had not been there many seconds when the prisoner again began speaking to himself in a very unpleasant tone of voice, as he paced backwards and for- wards in the room. They heard 280 JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. "Just step down one moment, policeman," interrupted the magistrate ; " we'll perhaps get the parties themselves to tell us what they heard. Prosecutrix, step into the witness- hox." Mrs. O'Callaghan did as she was desired. Magistrate. — Mrs. O'Callaghan. " Yes, yer honour." Magistrate. — Just tell us what you overheard when you and your friend were listening at the door of the prisoner. Mrs. O'Callaghan. — I will, yer worship ; and it shall be nothing but God's blessed thruth, as sure and sirtain as I have a sowl to be saved. The first ugly thing he said, yer honour, was that the devil was sure to be there that night. (Laughter.) Well, we didn't much like the likes iv that. Next (for, yer honour, he meant to rob as well as murther me), next he said he would throw my sheets out of the window, and that some other vagabone would pick them up and run off with them. He then " JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. 231 "May I be allowed, sir?" said Joseph, inter- rupting Mrs. O'Callaghan, and addressing him- self to the magistrate ; " may I be allowed to say a few words, and I'll at once explain all this?" " Not at present ; but you'll have an oppor- tunity of saying whatever you please, when the prosecutrix has made her statement. Prosecu- trix, proceed." " Well, yer worship," resumed Mrs. O'Cal- laghan, " after saying that he would throw my sheets out of the window, he said ** ** Just stop a moment," interposed the magis- * trate. " And did the prisoner throw your sheets out of the window ? " Mrs. O'Callaghan. — No, yer honour, he did not. I ran down-stairs, and out to the street, but niver a sheet nor anything else did I see there. Magistrate. — Are your sheets, then, still on your bed ? Mrs. O'Callaghan. — They are, yer honour. 232 JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. Magistrate. — So, then, there has been no robbery. Mrs. O'Callaghan. — Och, and by my faith, yer honour, the rason of that same is as plain as a pikestaff; it's because he was prevented. Magistrate. — Go on with your statement. Mrs. O'Callaghan, — Then, says he, yer wor- ship — didn't he, honey ? (stopping abruptly, and turning to Mrs. Shannon). "And faith he did, Mrs. O'Callaghan; as sure as I'm a livin woman," returned Mrs. Shannon. The magistrate, as well as the spectators, could not help smiling at the readiness with which Mrs. Shannon, in true Irish style, came forward to ratify Mrs. O'Callaghan's statement before she had made it. " What was the next thing the prisoner said ? " inquired the magistrate. "And sure if the blessed thruth must be spoken, yer worship, Fm ashamed to repate it." " We must hear it," said the magistrate. JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. 23S " Ah, the villain that he is," said Mrs. O'Cal- laghan, now for the first time working herself into a paroxysm of passion, gnashing her teeth, looking as fierce as a tigress at Joseph, and shaking her clenched fist in his face ; " ah, the worthless villain that he is, he knows himself what he said. Indeed, indeed, he does, yer honour." " Yes, but we must know it, too," suggested the magistrate. " Well, then, yer honour, what then do you think the brute baste said ? He said, yer ho- nour, that I was an old Irish hag." (Roars of laughter, in which Joseph could not help join- ing.) " And throth he did, yer honour," chimed in Mrs. Shannon, by way of corroborating the statement of her friend. " He said, that old Irish hag, Mrs. O'Callaghan." (Renewed laugh- ter.) "What else did he say?" pursued the magistrate. 2S4* JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. " He said, yer honour, that he'd soon settle my hash for me." (Loud laughter.) " Anything more ? " "Yes, yer worship, he said that he'd close my mouth, and stop the waggings of my vile tongue, — the big blackguard that he is." Mrs. O'Callaghan accompanied the latter clause of the sentence with a very emphatic stamp of her foot in the witness-box, coupled with a most savage look at Joseph. "Well, but," said the magistrate, "all that you have stated does not constitute any proof of an attempt on your life." " If yer honour," replied Mrs. O'Callaghan, " will only stop a little, we'll come to the mur- ther part presently." " Well, proceed." " Then, yer worship, the next thing he said was, that he'd murther me intirely." "He did, yer honour," interposed Mrs. Shannon. " He said he'd blow her brains out at once." JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. 235 ^* Yes, he did, yer honour, as I hope to be saved." " Did he say anything else ? " asked the magistrate. " We did not stay to hear anything else," replied Mrs. O'Callaghan ; " but ran out of the house for our lives, crying * Murther ! murther!' all the way." " And did he pursue you ? " inquired the magistrate. " He did, yer honour, as fast as his heels could carry him." " Did you hear any report of a pistol ? " " We could not hear anything, yer worship, we were so frightened," replied Mrs. O'Calla- ghan. " Policeman, did you see any pistol in the prisoner's hand." " None, your worship." " Or find one in his lodgings ? " " We did not, your worship, though we made a most careful search." 236 JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. " Nor any other deadly weapon ? " " None, your worship." " What was the appearance of his room ?" " There was nothing in it, your worship, but a bed, a table, some chairs, and a quantity of books and writing materials." "Have you anything to say in addition to what has been stated by the prosecutrix ? " said the magistrate, addressing himself to Mrs. Shannon. " Nothing whatever, yer honour," replied Mrs. Shannon, " except to say that it's all the blessed thruth, and nothing but the thruth, that Mrs. O'Callaghan told you, as Tm a sinful woman." The magistrate now turned to Joseph, and asked him what he had to say respecting the charge on which he appeared before the Court. " Fll explain the whole matter, sir, in a few words, if you'll only allow me," replied Joseph. " Oh, certainly ; proceed," said the magis- trate. JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. 237 " I'm really ashamed," pursued Joseph, " to have to defend myself against so preposterous a charge ; and I am sure, sir, that, when you have heard the statement I am about to make, the whole affair will appear equally ridiculous in your eyes." " The Court will hear what you have got to say," remarked the magistrate, with a slight tinge of sarcasm in his manner, as if offended that Joseph should venture to anticipate his decision ; " the Court will hear what you have got to say, and then it will form its own opinion as to the character of the charge." " Well, sir," resumed Joseph, " the facts are these. It is " " Don't believe a word that he says," cried Mrs. O'Callaghan, before he had uttered half- a-dozen words. " He is the mouth of a " " Silence !" shouted the officer of the Court, •interrupting Mrs. O'Callaghan in the midst of a sentence whose remaining member will readily suggest itself to the reader. 238 JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. " You have been heard patiently in making your statement," said the magistrate, in a tone of reprehension, " and you must not interrupt the prisoner in making his defence." " Very well, yer honour," said Mrs. O'Calla- ghan, making a clumsy curtsey to the magis- trate. " Proceed with your statement," said the magistrate, addressing himself to Joseph. But, correcting himself, he immediately added — " Just stop a moment, if you please. Does any one," looking round the Court, " know the prisoner ? " " I do, sir," answered the. gentleman who reported the proceedings of the Court for the morning papers. " He is," added the latter *' a highly respectable man." " Now," said the magistrate, addressing him- self to Joseph, " you may proceed with what you may have to say in your defence." Joseph bowed, and proceeded. — " I was about to say, sir, when interrupted by this woman. JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. 2S9 that it was quite true that, on the night in ques- tion, I did, in talking aloud to myself — which has long been a habit of mine — make use of the words which have been attributed to me ; but, sir, as you will presently see, they admit of a very different construction from that which she and the other person have put upon them. The fact is, sir, that I am on the eve of bringing out a new book — a work of fiction — the last sheets of which are now passing through the press; and when I said, speaking to myself, that the devil was sure to be there, I merely meant the printer's devil, who I knew was to call that* night for proofs which I received that morning. (Loud laughter.) And, with regard to the sheets of Mrs. O'Callaghan, which I am accused of having meant to steal, and, with that view, to throw them out of the window, I assure you, sir, that the only sheets which I had in my thoughts were two proof sheets of my forth- coming work which I had ready, corrected for the printer, and which, whenever I should hear ^40 JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. his devil ring at the door, I meant to throw out over the w^indow, to save Mrs. O'Callaghan the trouble of letting him in. (Renewed laughter.) With " " Oh, yer honour, there's not a word of blessed thruth in what he's " Mrs. O'Cal- laghan was in the act of again interrupting Joseph, but was interrupted herself by the magistrate ordering her to be silent, and threat- ening to remove her out of the Court, should she again attempt to interrupt the prisoner. Joseph resumed. — " With respect to the application of the epithet * old Irish hag,' to Mrs. O'Callaghan (who here looked most fero- ciously at Joseph), I admit that it was im- proper, and am sorry for it. In reference to the phrases, * Soon settle her hash,' and * Stop the waggings of her vile tongue,' I only meant that I should be able next week to pay her the small amount I owe her." Roars of laughter followed this statement, in which the magistrate joined — Mrs. O'Callaghan, JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. 241 in the meantime, looking daggers at Joseph, and muttering to herself, in the excess of her indignation, which well-nigh choked her — " Oh, the blackguard! oh, the villain! oh, the big vagabone ! He richly desarves the gallows ! " " I am sure, sir," resumed Joseph, again addressing himself to the magistrate, " that, after what I have said, you are satisfied the other ex- pression made use of — namely, * I'll blow her brains out at once' — had no more reference to Mrs. O'Callaghan than to the King on the throne. The fact was, that I had made, in my own mind, a sudden transition from Mrs. O'Cal-* laghan and the bill I owe her to the heroine of the work I am about to bring out ; and was at the moment, having come to the denouement of the story, debating with myself in what way it would be best to dispose of her. Suddenly the recollection flashed on my mind, that the cur- rent of popular taste, in reference to works of fiction, has of late run in the direction of the horrible ; and at once resolving, from considera- VOL. II. M ^42 JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. tions connected with the sale of the book, to murder my heroine, I instantly made up my mind that the most summary and most telling way of perpetrating the deed, would be dis- charging a pistol at her head. Contemporane- ously with this determination was the exclama- tion, ' Oh, I'll blow her brains out at once ! '— a determination which Mrs. O'Callaghan, unhappily for herself and me, seems to have supposed referred to her. (Loud laughter, in which the magistrate heartily joined.) Hearing on the stairs loud cries of * Murder ! murder ! ' the moment I had audibly announced to myself the mode in which I meant to dispose of my heroine, and never dreaming that I was, in the remotest manner, connected with those alarming exclamations, I sprang to the door, and tore it open without waiting to unlock it. Not seeing any one on the stairs, I hesitated for a moment as to what I should do ; but, thinking the par- ties might have rushed out to the street, I bounded down-stairs, in order that, if needful, JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. 243 I might assist in apprehending any ruffian that might have been making an attempt on their lives. Judge, your worship, of my sur- prise when, on reaching the street, the very first incident which occurred was that of being myself apprehended, and hearing Mrs. O'Cal- laghan, while pointing to me, vociferating with a desperate emphasis — ' That's the man ! that's the raurtherer ! ' " The magistrate and all present again laughed immoderately at the ludicrous affair. ** I suppose, Mrs. O'Callaghan," said the magistrate, " that you are now satisfied that all' your alarm was groundless, and that the whole affair is a mistake." " And sure I'm nothin' of the kind, yer honour," replied Mrs. O'Callaghan, astonished at the remark of his worship. " He's only been tryin' to desave yer honour by inventions of his own. Oh, yer worship, it's himself s the mouth of a . I'm afraid to say the word, yer honour, lest I should offend you. As sure as 244 JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. my name's Judy O'Callaghan, a poor, honest, widow woman, he wanted to murther me intirely." The magistrate was at great pains to con- vince her that she was mistaken, but all his efforts were unsuccessful. At length, turning to Joseph, his worship said — "Perhaps you'll pay Mrs. O'Callaghan the small sum you owe her, and leave her lodgings at once — as, owing to the mistaken notion to which she unfor- tunately still clings, there could be no satis- faction to either party in any longer continu- ing your present connexion of landlady and lodger." " I will, sir, certainly," replied Joseph ; "I won't return to her house, and I'll call to- morrow, to pay her her bill and take away my trunk." " Come to me to-morrow ! " exclaimed Mrs. O'Callaghan, in an agony of alarm, her whole frame shaking as she spoke. " Come to me ! Och, yer honour, don't late him iver show his JOSEPH AND HIS LANDLADY. 245 murtherous countenance in my house agin. I'd rather lose all the rint he owes me." "Perhaps, then, you'll send the amount," suggested the magistrate, addressing himself to Joseph. " Oh, certainly, with the greatest pleasure," replied the latter. The parties then left the Court, Mrs. O'Cal- laghan soliciting the protection of a poKce- man for fear of Joseph, on her way home, and the magistrate smilingly acceding to her wishes. CHAPTER XI. Joseph loses one of his engagements — A loan transaction with a money-lender — Singular stratagem — Extraordinary adventure. The effect of the exposure of Joseph's affairs, as recorded in the preceding chapter, in con- junction with a feeling of dissatisfaction with him which had, on various accounts, existed in the mind of the proprietor of the weekly journal with which he had heen some time con- nected — was the loss of his engagement. With, therefore, an accumulation of pecuniary obliga- tions, arising from the expenses of law proceed- ings against him, and a diminished income, it will surprise no one to be informed that his affairs were becoming more and more desperate every day. In the extremity of the pecuniary A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. 247 pressure to which he was at last subjected, he bethought himself of endeavouring to procure the loan of £40 or £50, which would afford him some temporary relief. He mentioned the cir- cumstance to a Mr. O'Brien, a clever, eccentric Irishman, connected with the press, with whom he was very intimate. The latter not only felt, but expressed, the deepest sympathy with Joseph in his unpleasant situation. Nor did he confine his sympathy to mere words. He intimated his willingness to do what he could in assisting Joseph to procure a temporary loan. He added, that he himself would be very muck convenienced at the moment, if he could obtain the use of a ten-pound note. Mr. O'Brien, after some farther conversation, mentioned that he was acquainted with a Mr. Snatchem, an old miserly man, in the habit of lending money, when he got a high rate of interest for the accommodation ; and that he thought that, by their both putting their names to a bill for the amount, they might get a three months' loan of 248 A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. £50 or £60, at twenty per cent, interest. Joseph was in ecstacies. " Oh, never mind the rate of interest," he exclaimed ; "we'll give any interest he likes to ask. How soon do you think it can be got?" " Oh, I should think immediately," replied Mr. O'Brien. " To-day ? " asked Joseph. "No, not to-day; not so soon as that. I may not be able to see him to-day." " To-morrow, then ? " pursued Joseph. " Well, I should think to-morrow." " Where or when shall 1 see you to- morrow ? " " At my lodgings at ten o'clock. I'll endea- vour to see Snatchem to-night, and, if I can get on the weak side of the old man, we shall have the money by eleven," None but those who have felt that their all depended on their obtaining a temporary pecu- niary accommodation, can have any conception of the intensity of the anxiety which Joseph A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. 249 felt throughout the night. He was alternately tossed between hope and fear, expectation and apprehension ; a state of mind which is one of the most painful in which a human being can be placed. Sleep visited not his eyes for even one little moment. He spent the night in wishing for the arrival of the morning, in order that he might know his doom. Morning came at the usual time, and, for once in his life, Joseph proved himself an early riser. He got up at six, paced his room to and fro for an hour afterwards ; then went out for a walk to while away the intervening time^ returned, hastily shaved, and hurried away to Mr. O'Brien's lodgings. " Ah ! Jenkins, my boy ; good luck to both of us ! " said Mr. O'Brien, extending his hand to Joseph, as the latter entered his apartment. " Are we to get it?" inquired Joseph, eagerly. " All right, old boy ! Sixty pounds, and no mistake," was the other's answer. " My dear fellow," exclaimed Joseph, grasp- u2 250 A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. ing Mr. O'Brien by the hand, " I'll never forget this favour — never, as long as there's breath in my body." " Oh, don't mention it," returned the other. " Now for the stamp. Let me see," continued Mr. O'Brien, fumbling in his pocket, "whether I've got as much money as will procure the stamp. By the powers, I've not! I've only just got half-a-crown and three ha'penny'-orths of coppers, and it requires four and sixpence. Jenkins, have you got the balance ? " Joseph instituted a most rigid search in the locality where he was in the habit of keeping his money, when he happened to have any, which was remarkably seldom of late ; but nothing beyond a solitary shilling could he find. " We must make lip the remainder somehow or other," said Mr. O'Brien. " Oh, I'll try my landlady," added he, after a moment's reflection. "Mrs. Connaught!" cried Mr. O'Brien, putting his head down the stairs. A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. 251 "Was it meself you were calling, Mr. O'Brien ? " responded a voice from the parlour at the foot of the stairs. " Yes, sure and it is," returned Mr. O'Brien. " And what is it ye want ?" " Have you got any money ?" " Och, an' iv it's money ye're wanting, there's precious little chance of yer getting it." "I only want a trifle, and even that but for an hour or two." ** Then can't you be afther say in' at once how much ye want ? " " Only tenpence halfpenny, Mrs. Con» naught." " Well, and throth you won't get it all here, that's sartain," replied Mrs. Connaught, rum- maging among some coppers she had in a dingy and dusty cupboard. " I've just got tenpence, and not a farthing more," she added, after carefully counting her riches ; " and that's all in coppers." " It matters not," returned Mr. O'Brien, 252 A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS, ** what it's in if there were enough of it ; but we still want a halfpenny." Joseph instituted a second investigation into the state of his pockets, and happily found the -needful halfpenny, and an odd one to the bargain. The stamp was forthwith procured ; the bill drawn up, and both names adhibited to it. Mr. O'Brien hurried away to a small miserable room in the neighbourhood of his lodgings, occupied by Mr. Snatchem, and dignified by the latter gentleman with the name of an office. The bill was discounted, and Mr. O'Brien returned in less than twenty minutes with the money, bating the deduction of twenty per cent., amounting to three pounds, agreed on in consi- deration of the accommodation. Joseph's eye lighted up, and his countenance became flushed with joy, when the money was laid on the table before him. He could scarcely credit the evi- dence of his vision, when he saw so large a sum under his control ; for it was before, as has A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. ^53 been already hinted, understood by both, that the matter of ten pounds would suffice to meet the more urgent claims against Mr. O'Brien. If anything could have increased Joseph's joy, it would have been the circum- stance of Mr. O'Brien's saying, with a noble disinterestedness of mind, which, though not unmingled with rtiany foibles and defects, always characterized him — " Jenkins, my dear fellow, I dare say you're a little harder up just now than I am ; and very possibly besides, having had longer experience in the line than you, I'm perhaps a little more successful in* staving off those clamorous cormorants called creditors, than you are. Therefore I'll do with the odd seven pounds, and you can have the entire fifty for yourself." Joseph readily conceded the claims of his friend to greater experience in the gentlemanly profession of getting into debt without any thought as to whether or not there would be any probability of ever getting out again. 254 A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. Equally ready was he to admit, that Mr. O'Brien was much more successful in parrying off the importunities of impatient creditors. Nor, as will be very easily believed, did he at all demur to the orthodoxy of the conclusion which his friend deduced from the premises — namely, that he should content himself with the odd pounds, and let Joseph have the round fifty. Our hero immediately commenced the work of paying, in some instances partly, in others wholly, the more clamorous of his creditors. For a short season afterwards he enjoyed a com- parative respite from their persecutions — the luxury of which respite those only can have a proper idea of, who have been, like Joseph, worried not only out of temper, but almost out of life, by their solicitations and menaces. Three months are not a long period ; and on the eve of the expiration of that time, Joseph was apprised by a polite note from Mr. Snatchem, that the bill of sixty pounds, drawn in the joint names of himself and Mr, O'Brien, A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. 255 fell due on a particular day. What was to be done ? Not a sixpence had either put aside with a view to meet the bill ; nor did they see the most slender probability of being able, by any exertions they could make, to take it up. Joseph now felt himself to be in a worse con- dition than ever. This was the largest sum for which he had ever rendered himself liable to be summarily sued : his other debts, though numerous, were principally in small sums, and were owing to tradesmen ; not to professed money-lenders, who, of all other classes, are the most unfeeling, and the most vindictive in their proceedings against those who fall into their clutches. Mr. O'Brien, seeing the deep depression of spirits — a depression verging on absolute de- spondency — into which Joseph had plunged himself, because of the inability of either to meet the bill — entreated him not to resign himself to despair. " If," answered Joseph, " we had only a fortnight's indulgence, I am 256 A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. certain of a sum of money from a publisher for literary labour done, which would more than suffice to take up the bill." And this, it may be here right to remark, was strictly true. Joseph had written a com- pilation on an historical subject, for which he was to receive sixty pounds ; and had an article in the current number of a periodical belonging to the same publisher, which came to seven pounds odd ; while he had just corrected the proof of another contribution to the forth- coming number of the same periodical, which would bring him from six to seven pounds. Magazine-day would occur in the middle of the following week, and he had received a note from the bibliopole, requesting him to call to receive his money for the whole in four or five days afterwards, should [a cheque not be sent him before then. " A fortnight's indulgence, did you say ? " remarked Mr. O'Brien. " That would be all. Indeed I should not A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. 257 require quite so much/' answered Joseph. And he proceeded to state, as we have just done, the source whence the needful sum would be received. " Leave it to me," said Mr. O'Brien, " and I'll procure the indulgence." " Do you think you can ? " asked Joseph, eagerly. " I'm sure of it." Joseph was raised in a moment to the third heaven of happiness. It is proper here to remark that, though Jo- seph and Mr. Snatchem were quite unknown to each other previously to the discounting of the bill, they had, since then, become slightly acquainted — that is to say, to the extent of exchanging a " How d'ye do?" with each other, when they chanced to meet in the streets. The day on which the bill fell due, arrived ; and Mr. O'Brien, who thoroughly understood the character and habits of Mr. Snatchem, made perfectly sure, in his own mind, that the money- 25S A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. lender, finding the bill had not been taken up, would call at his lodgings in ten or fifteen minutes past five o'clock. He accordingly pre- pared for the reception of Mr. Snatchem. He gave instructions to his landlady, if a Mr. Snatchem called in the course of the evening, to send him up-stairs, but on no account to say to any other person who might inquire for him, that he was at home. Mrs. Connaught promised obedience to Mr. O'Brien's orders, and with her promise he was satisfied ; for he had always found her worthy of all confidence in such matters. Having thus arranged with his landlady, Mr. O'Brien immediately set to work to carry into efiect the idea he had formed. He put the blankets into a shape as nearly resem- bling the form of a human being, as it was pos- sible to make them. He then threw a sheet over the figure, if so it might be called, thus formed, and so arranged the curtains of the bed as that enough of it should be seen to leave the im- pression that a human body was lying in it. A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. 259 This part of his plan being executed to his satisfaction, he next drew down the window cur- tains. Five o'clock struck ; and he seated him- self in an easy chair, and commenced attentively- listening for a double knock at the street door. In about ten minutes an energetic knock was heard. " Now, then, for acting my part," ejaculated Mr. O'Brien to himself. He snatched up a pocket handkerchief, which he had pre- viously sprinkled, to the proper extent, with water. He also applied to his eyes a particular composition, which has the effect of instanta- neously giving the eye a red and watery appear- ance. Mr. Snatchem knocked at the door of his room. " Come in," said Mr. O'Brien, in a subdued and sorrowful tone of voice " How do you ? " said Mr. Snatchem, drily, and coldly extending his hand, as he entered the apart- ment. " How are you, Mr. Snatchem?" responded the other, in a way which rather resembled sighing than speaking — at the same time slowly 260 A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. and softly putting out his hand to receive the proffered hand of the money-lender. " Sit down, Mr. Snatchem." Mr. Snatchem sat down, and Mr. O'Brien buried his face in his handkerchief. " I'm quite surprised that neither you nor Mr. Jenkins have taken up this bill," said the moneyed man, in reproachful accents, after a momentary pause. " Oh ! my dear sir, I beg you won't speak of money matters to me just now," sobbed Mr. O'Brien, partially raising his face, and revealing his eyes full of moisture, and having all the other appearances of being in the act of giving expres- sion to the deepest sorrow. " What's the matter ? What's the matter, Mr. O'Brien?" inquired Mr. Snatchem, in a subdued and even half-sympathetic tone. " Oh, my dear sir, don't ask me what's the matter, when you see that bed before you," replied Mr. O'Brien, sobbing audibly as he spoke, and burying his face still deeper in his A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. 261 handkerchief, after he had given utterance to the words. Mr. Snatchem looked towards the hed. " What, Mr. O'Brien, some friend dead?" " Ay, and the dearest friend I had on earth." " Bless me ; I'm truly sorry to hear it," said the other. " Any relation ? " " No relation; but one much dearer to me than any relation I ever had," groaned Mr. O'Brien. " Dear me ! Do I know your departed friend?" " You do. Poor Joseph Jenkins ! " And again Mr. O'Brien gave vent to his grief in a succession of sobs, which seemed to have been fetched up from the lowest depths of his heart. " Bless my soul ! And is Mr. Jenkins dead ? " said Mr. Snatchem, in tones expressive of great concern. ** Don't ask me the question. Don't men- tion his name; you only harrow up my feel- 262 A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. ings. Look in that bed ; a better fellow never breathed." " When did the melancholy event occur?" " Last night, about nine o'clock. It was quite a sudden event — the work of a moment — a fit of apoplexy." " God bless us ! So sudden as that ! " " Awfully sudden," groaned Mr. O'Brien. " Then I cannot, under such affecting cir- cumstances, say anything, at present, about the bill, I suppose." " Oh ! Mr. Snatchem," replied Mr. O'Brien, raising his head, and speaking in clearer tones, because uttering the language of rebuke ; " oh ! Mr. Snatchem, I'm quite surprised you could have the heart to allude to such a subject just now." " These are matters, Mr. O'Brien, that must, you know, be attended to." " It's quite useless to speak to me about such matters now. My mind is too much occupied about the death of my friend." A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. 26S *' Well, then," said Mr. Snatchem, " I must wait till the funeral is over, I suppose." " You must, indeed." " When does the funeral take place ? " " The day is not yet fixed. Certainly not before eight days." " Well, then, I suppose I may rely on your attention to the matter in nine or ten days, at farthest." " T can't promise quite so soon as that. There will be various little things to attend to for two or three da3^s after the funeral." *' What time, then, may I depend on the bill being taken up ? " " Say a fortnight from this day, and it shall be attended to without fail." " Well, I will say a fortnight," answered Mr. Snatchem. " Good night, Mr. O'Brien." " Good night, Mr. Snatchem," replied Mr. O'Brien, holding out his right hand to receive that of Mr. Snatchem, still keeping his face bu- ried in his handkerchief by means of his left hand. 264> A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. No sooner had Mr. O'Brien heard the outer door shut, as Mr. Snatchem quitted the house, than he began dancing for joy at the success of his scheme. The window curtain was put up, and the bed restored to its wonted state. Next morning Joseph called to ascertain whether anything, and what, had been done to obtain the fortnight's indulgence from their creditor. "It's all right," was Mr. O'Brien's answer, as Joseph entered his apartment. " Are you serious ? " inquired Joseph, half doubtingly. ." Perfectly so." " An entire fortnight ? " " An entire fortnight." "Oh, how fortunate! By what process of reasoning did you prevail on old Snatchem to give us the indulgence ? '* " I'll tell you that another time ; not at pre- sent." " I should like to know, because I regard it as a signal proof of your powers of persuasion." A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. 265 " You shall know all when the bill is taken up ; not till then. In the meantime it will be good policy for both of us to keep out of Snatchem's way until the thing is settled, lest the sight of either should chance to recal the matter to his memory, and induce him to revoke the respite he has given us." " I shall take care," replied Joseph, " that he does not see my face until the money is in his pocket. I shall make a point of going to the country early every morning, and not returning till late in the evening, in order that there may be no chance of his seeing me." " Do," said Mr. O'Brien. " I shall do the same. That's the best way to prevent his see- ing you. Were we to move about in town in the usual way, there is no saying when or where he might meet with us." Joseph kept his word ; one day he spent at Chatham, another at Gravesend, another at Watford, and so on. The last day but one he spent at Windsor : the season was the close of VOL. II. N 266 A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. autumn. After spending the day in rambling about that interesting place, he returned to one of the secondary inns in order to have some refreshment previously to taking his place in the coach, which started for town at eight o'clock. It was now about seven, and the sun had just concluded his circuit for the day ; but still it was not sufficiently dark to require the intro- duction of candles. Joseph walked, as was his wont, with slow and stately step, into the pub- lic room. Instantly a loud scream proceeded from a person who was sitting at the table. Joseph was too much confounded to be able to utter a word. What could be the meaning of this ? The waiter was in the act of rushing into the room to see what was the matter, and the stranger was in the act of rushing out, in a state of the most terrible alarm. The result was, that both rushed into each other's arms with a force which made them severally stagger. " A ghost — a ghost!" gasped the terrified stranger. A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. 267 " A what ? " cried the waiter. "The ghost of Mr. Jenkins," groaned the other, half suffocated from fright. The reader is left to form the best idea he can of the amazement of poor Joseph. He was so entirely under the dominion of astonishment at what he saw and heard, as to be unable to give utterance to a single word. There he stood as motionless as a statue, and as silent as the grave; circumstances which were not without their effect in proselytizing " William" to the theory of Joseph's ghostship, so potently believed in by the stranger. "Oh! waiter," gasped the stranger, after a momentary surprise ; " oh ! waiter, take me out of this room." And, as he spoke, he clung with more des- perate tenacity than ever to the astonished William. " Would you step into the private room, sir ? " inquired the waiter, supporting the stranger by the arm. ^68 A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. " Anywhere, anywhere, to be out of this room." "William bore the half-lifeless stranger into the private room, in which mine host and hostpss were at tea. "Is the gentleman ill?" inquired Boniface, as he saw the stranger carried in by the waiter. "William, William," cried the landlady, without waiting for an answer to her husband's question, " send for a doctor directly." "It's not a doctor, ma'am, that the gentle- man wants," said the waiter. " What then's the matter?" inquired the landlord. " He's frightened, sir," replied William. " Yes, and no wonder," gasped the stranger. " What could have frightened him in the public room ? " " He says a ghost, sir." " Ay, a ghost," groaned the stranger. " Mercy on us!" shrieked the landlady. At this moment Joseph, having partially A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. 269 recovered from his confusion, and anxious to receive some explanation of the extraordinary circumstance, walked with the same staid and stately manner as before, into the apartment where the stranger, the waiter, the landlord and lady, were all congregated. "There he is — there's the ghost again! screamed the stranger, as Joseph presented himself. The landlady shrieked with such tremendous energy, as to bring the whole establishment of servants around her in a moment. Boniface, who was a man of considerable nerve, and not a very likely person to embrace any supernatural theory, unless on the most convincing evidence, directed a searching gaze to the countenance of Joseph, and then declared his conviction that he was no ghost. " You're quite right, sir," said Joseph, who had by this time considerably recovered his composure. The waiter having heard Joseph thus speak. 270 A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. and seeing him look like a being of flesh and blood, at length ventured to express his con- currence in the conclusion to which his master had come. " You're mistaken," gasped the stranger; " it is a ghost. I saw him dead, and lying in his grave-clothes, with my own eyes." " Saw me dead and in my grave-clothes ? " said Joseph, amazed and half horrified at the thought. " Why, the man must be mad." " I think so too," said the landlord. " I wish his friends were here to take care of him." " I wish they were," echoed the waiter. " I wish we were rid of him." " Do you know the gentleman's name, Wil- liam ? " said Boniface, addressing himself to the waiter. " He calls himself Mr. Snatchem, sir." " Calls himself what ? " exclaimed Joseph ; who, in the confusion of the moment, and his altered appearance consequent on the fright, did not before recognise Mr. Snatchem in the A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. 271 stranger ; " calls himself what ? Surely it can't be Mr. Snatchem. Mr. Snatchem," con- tinued Joseph, advancing a few paces to where the other was, and extending his hand to him, " what's the meaning of all this ? " Mr. Snatchem shrunk back, shuddering at the idea of contact with a spirit. " What ! Mr. Snatchem, don't you know me ? " Mr. Snatchem made no reply. " Don't you know Mr. Jenkins ?" " Mr. Jenkins is dead, and in his grave,'* re- plied Mr. Snatchem, in feeble and faltering accents. " Poor man ! his intellects are deranged, or he has been seized with some unaccountable temporary delusion," remarked Joseph. " But what's to be done with him ? " said the landlord. " Hadn't we better commit him to the care of the authorities ? " suggested the waiter. At this moment the sound of the horn an- nounced that the coach was on the eve of 272 A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. starting to London, and Joseph being under the necessity of being in the office of the paper with which he was connected that night by eleven o'clock, said he was obliged to go ; and quitted the house, begging Boniface to see that every care was taken of Mr. Snatchem. Joseph had not been many minutes gone, before Mr. Snatchem began to recover from his fright, and to regain his wonted composure of mind. In a few hours he was so far recovered as to be able to return to town by the mail, which passed through Windsor in the course of the night. Next morning Joseph hurried to Mr. O'Brien's lodgings, to relate to him the extraordinary adventure he had had with Mr. Snatchem, Mr. O'Brien was so convulsed with laughter at the romantic relation as to be unable, for some time, to utter a word. When his paroxysm of laughter had so far passed away as to admit of his conversing with Joseph, he acquainted him with the hoax he had played on " Old A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. 273 Snatchem," when he came to intimate his deter- mination to take peremptory proceedings against both for the non-payment of the bill. "Of course," he added, " when Snatchem knows the trick which has been played at his expense, he'll show us no mercy." " Oh, we don't require it now," said Joseph ; " when I returned last night, I found a cheque from Mr. Crompton, for £65, the sum he owed me. Here it is," said Joseph, handing Mr. O'Brien the cheque. " Heaven be praised for that," said the latter. " Let us cash it, and take up the bill immedi- ately." " It may be done in five minutes. It is pay- able at Coutts' bank, which is not a minute's walk from this," remarked Joseph. The cheque was forthwith cashed, and Mr. O'Brien sent the money with a friend to Mr. Snatchem, apologising to him for the hoax which had been played off at his expense ; and urging as the reason why it had been practised, that n2 .'274 A CHAPTER OF INCIDENTS. neither himself nor Mr. Jenkins could advance a single sixpence to meet the bill when it became due, and that he (Mr. O'Brien) knew of no other means by which they could induce him (Mr. Snatchem) to grant them the requi- site indulgence. CHAPTER XII. Joseph visits Mr. Lovegood— Conversation with Mr. Love- good— Conversation between the latter and his daughter- Mr. Lovegood's death and character. Several months had elapsed during which Joseph and Mr. Lovegood had not met ; and the former, one morning, having begun to reproach himself for allowing so long an inter- val to pass, without calling on one to whom he felt so deeply indebted, of whose friendship he continued to feel a growing sense, and for whose general character, though not sharing in his views as regarded the practical parts of religion, he felt an increasing admiration — determined to atone for his past omission, by calling more frequently in future on Mr. Love- good. Joseph also made up his mind to call that 276 MR. lovegood's illness. morning on him. On arriving at his residence, and knocking at the door, he was informed by the housemaid, that Mr. Lovegood had been for some days complaining of illness ; but that if he would give his name — for, being a new servant, she knew nothing of Joseph — she would men tion who was inquiring for him. Joseph handed his card to the maid, who immediately went up- stairs with it. She returned in a few seconds, and said that Mr. Lovegood wished particularly to see him. Joseph accordingly proceeded to Mr. Lovegood's bedroom, and was pained at finding he was confined to his bed. Mr. Love- good expressed the greatest gratification at seeing Joseph again, and intimated his regret that he should be such a stranger. After a few words of general conversation, Joseph renewed the expression of deep concern which he had made on first shaking hands with Mr. Lovegood, at finding him so ill. The latter remarked, that sickness was incident to humanity ; and that, consequently, nothing had happened in his case MR. lovegood's illness. 277 for which he and all men ought not to be always prepared. Joseph assented to the justice of the remark, without feeling much of its force; and then expressed a hope that his friend would soon recover. " My recovery is very doubtful," remarked Mr. Lovegood. " At any rate, it is the part of wisdom in me not to be too sanguine in my ex- pectations of restoration to health. It ought to be, and I trust it is, enough for me to know, that I am in the best of hands. I ought not in this, any more than in the ordinary dispensa- tions of Providence, to have any will of my own ; but should have my own will entirely absorbed in the will of Him who knows what is best." "But life is sweet ; and it is human nature to cling to it as long as we can," suggested Joseph. " Very true," remarked Mr. Lovegood ; " and religion does not tell us to be reckless of or to S78 MR. lovegood's illness. disregard life. On the contrary, it teaches us that to rush recklessly into peril, is a moral crime of no ordinar}^ magnitude ; but, on the other hand, we are not, however great may be our attachment to life, to refuse to resign it into His hands who gave it, when he is pleased to recal the gift." Joseph made no reply. After a moment's pause, Mr. Lovegood resumed — " You know, Mr. Jenkins, that you and I have had several conversations on religious topics; and when I say that I now feel religion to be the one thing needful, you will bear me testimony, that I do not say it for the first time. What I say now, when probably on the brink of the grave and the verge of the eternal world, I said in the prime of life, and when the fountain of health was full to overflowing. Had you only, my dear friend, listened, when first we met, to my counsels in reference to religious matters, you would have lived a much happier life, and insured for yourself perfect peace, when you MR. lovegood's illness. 279 shall be, as I am now, stretched on a bed of sickness, with a strong impression that death will be the issue. I am now more than ever convinced, that as religion alone can soothe and sanctify the spirit in life, so it is the only thing which can afford support and administer conso- lation to the soul in the immediate prospect of death." Mr. Lovegood evidently intended to have proceeded; but, just as he had finished the latter sentence, his medical man entered, and Joseph, unperceived by Mr. Lovegood, stole out of the room and quitted the house, — morQ concerned about the illness of his friend, than impressed by the affectionate admonition he was in the act of addressing to him. Joseph called again on the following day, to inquire how Mr. Lovegood was. He was then much worse ; so much so, as to be strictly prohibited by his medical adviser, from seeing any one but the members of his own family, and even them as little and as seldom as possible. 280 MR. lovegood's illness. ' One member of his family, however, his daugh- ter Mary, a young girl of about twenty years of age, he insisted, contrary to the wishes of his physician and his wife, on seeing. Mary was a handsome and beautiful young girl ; amiable, too, in mind, and accomplished in manners ; but she never exhibited the slightest trace of any truly religious feeling. When, therefore, Mr, Lovegood was earnestly entreated by his wife to act in accordance with the instructions of the doctor, and not fatigue himself by conversation, his answer was, " In what way could a Chris- tian parent, who feels his end to be at hand, more properly spend his last hours on earth, than in seeking the everlasting well-being of his child ? " He accordingly requested Mary to come and sit down by his bedside, without the presence of any other member of the family. His wishes were complied with. Mary ap- proached his bedside, the tears streaming from her eyes, and her heart almost broken at the thought, that she might be on the eve of MR. lovegood's illness. 281 losing so affectionate, so indulgent, so worthy a father. " Mary," said the dying man — for we may so far anticipate the event, as to say he was in a dying state — " Mary, my dear," said Mr. Love- good, taking his daughter gently by the hand, " sit down on the side of the bed." Mary sat down on her father's bedside. "You see your father is very ill, my dear." Mary gave vent to her feelings in a fresh flood of tears. " You know how earnestly and affectionately I have sought, ever since you reached the yeara of reflection, to awaken your mind to a sense of the importance of divine things, and of the necessity of personal religion." The good man here paused for a moment, as if waiting to see whether his daughter would make any reply. She made none. Then Mr. Lovegood resumed — " And times without num- ber, as is well known to Him in whose presence I am, in all probability, soon to be, have I, 282 MR. lovegood's illness. when no human eye saw me nor human ear heard me, supplicated the throne of grace on your behalf. My prayers have not as yet been heard in heaven ; or rather, I should say, have not been visibly answered on earth. You have been an affectionate child, a dutiful daughter ; you have been what the world calls a virtuous person. But mere affection and duty to me ; the mere habitual performance of those actions which the world calls virtuous, will never, however praiseworthy in themselves, bring a single human being to heaven. Unless you are deeply sensible of your guilt in the eye of Him who made you ; unless you are hum- bled on account of that guilt, and fall, prostrate in spirit, before the cross of that Saviour who died to redeem a ruined world, you can have no scriptural ground to expect a happy hereafter. It is because, my dear Mary, I love you with an intensity of affection beyond the power of expression, that I thus speak. This may be my farewell address to you: you may never MR. lovegood's illness. 283 again hear my voice on earth. You may be looking on your father for the last time in this world — the last time, I mean, in which his eye can respond to your look of sorrowful affec- tion." Here Miss Lovegood gave vent to her uncon- trollable grief in an audible burst of feeling. She felt as if her heart would literally break. None but those who have been present at the bedside of a dying father, whose affection knew no limits, whose solicitude for his offspring was strong and constant, and whose conduct was exemplary, in the highest degree, in all the Ye% lations of life : none but such can form any idea of the intense and almost overwhelming anguish of Mary's mind at this moment. After a temporary pause Mr. Lovegood re- sumed — " My dear child, there is nothing which pains or disturbs me in the prospect of the momentous event which I believe to be before me, and the solemn scene which invariably and immediately follows that event, but the concern 284 MR. lovegood's illness. I feel for your condition. Who knows but my illness and its issue, seeing that the ordinary means of grace and the ordinary dispensations of Providence have failed to have that effect, may have been specially appointed for your conversion ? If so, painful as the bereavement must be to your natural feelings, my death will be to you the greatest mercy you could have received — a mercy, it is true, in disguise, but still a mercy of the greatest magnitude." Here the good man's feelings quite overcame him. For a little season he was unable to pro- ceed; but, though no words escaped his lips, there was a language in his looks, an expression in the increased and tender pressure of his hand, which spoke with terrible power to Mary's heart. " Mary, my dear, I feel myself getting weaker and weaker," resumed the dying man. " It is with very great difficulty I can now speak at all. I feel " " Would it not be better, my dear father ? M MR, lovegood's illness. 285 interrupted Mary, in tender but scarcely articu- late accents, now, for the first time, attempting to utter a word ; " would it not be better for you, my dear father, to take a little rest, as you are so exhausted ? " " It is, my dear girl, because I feel so much for you, that I endeavour to speak. Of the rest of the family I have the most confident hopes. Did I but see a saving change in you, I could close my eyes in death without a pang, save that which nature feels at being severed for ever from those who are dear to me as my own soul. If my last breath be now passing away, in what better way could it be spent than in seeking your everlasting welfare ? " Here Mr. Lovegood breathed more rapidly, and with greater difliculty. " I fear," he con- tinued, after a few moments' pause, "I fear that I shall be able to speak but a few more words to you. Let these few words be spent, my dear child, in prayer for you. Will you kneel down by my bedside ? " 286 MR. lovegood's illness. Mary knelt down beside the bed of her dying father, and the good man poured forth his soul in fervent prayer, that his death, should death be the issue, might prove the spiritual life of his dear daughter. His prayer was so remarkable for its unction, that it seemed as if it had come from a pure spirit in heaven, instead of from a being on earth. It is impossible to describe the emotions of Mary's mind at this moment. She felt a power accompanying the prayer of her expiring parent, which she had never expe- rienced before. She felt her heart softened, her spirit subdued, her soul hwmbled in the very dust, as the dying man, who seemed as if endowed, for the moment, with a supernatural strength, besieged the throne of mercy on her behalf. Whether Mr. Lovegood would have attempted to resume his parting counsels to his daughter, or, having committed her in fervent prayer to Him before whom he felt he was on the eve of appearing, we cannot say — the physician having entered the room just as he MR. lovegood's illness. 287 had emphatically uttered the "Amen" to his supplications. Seeing Mr. Lovegood so exhausted, and hoping that, though there was no probability of his recovering, a little medicine which would have the effect of procuring sleep, might enable him to hold on a little longer, the physician administered a small dose of laudanum. A few minutes after Mr. Lovegood had taken the pre- scription, he fell into a profound slumber, out of which he did not awaken till the following morning. Mr. Lovegood's wife was sitting by his bed- ^ side when he awakened from his long sleep. After a few words of conversation with her, he expressed a wish to see Mary again, mentioning that the circumstance of never having seen her, notwithstanding all her amiable and morally excellent qualities, exhibit the slightest symp- tom of that spiritual transformation of character, without which there can be no real happiness in this life, nor felicity in the world to come, 288 MR. lovegood's illness. pressed very heavily on his mind. Mrs. Love- good told him that, since his last interview with Mary, she had been under the deepest concern about divine things ; and that, after a night of great anxiety, mingled with much alarm, respect- ing her condition in the sight of her Creator, she had, about two hours previous to the moment at which she (Mrs. Lovegood) was speaking, suddenly found, to use her own words, " peace and joy in believing ;" and that, without appear- ing in an ecstatic state of mind, she was now, as she herself expressed it, in a new world, experiencing a happiness she never before enjoyed, and of which she had no previous conception. The dying man clasped his hands, raised his eyes to heaven, and said, with a solemn empha- sis, which she who alone heard it can never forget, " Thank God for that ; to His name be all the praise." After a short pause, he expressed a wish to see such of his family as were in the house. MR. lovegood's illness. 289 His wish was complied with: in less than a minute all the members of his family were standing by his bedside. He eagerly gazed on them, looking as if he felt it would be the last time he should ever be permitted to see them in time ; and then said — " My dear wife and children, I am now about to be taken from you. My hour, I feel, is come. The last grain in my sand-glass is in the act of running its brief journey. I am here just now : many minutes may not elapse before I shall be in the world of spirits. My parting admonition to each and all of you is, not to seek for your happiness in the things of time ; not to seek it in the world's honours, riches, or pleasures. Seek it above : choose Him who is the Great Author of all, as your portion for time and eternity. I have earnestly and unceasingly, in life, sought to impress on you the infinite importance of divine things. With my dying breath, and wdth the great white throne pre- sent to my view, would I repeat my admoni- VOL. II. O 290 MR. lovegood's death. tions. If 1 found the doctrines and promises of the Gospel to be my solace and support in life, I find them doubly valuable in this the hour of my death. Without them, what should I be at this moment ? With them, death has no terrors to me. I am as calm and peaceful in spirit, as if I were already in those celestial regions where the spirits of just men made perfect, and holy angels, are completely and everlastingly blessed." Here Mr. Lovegood paused, not as if he had finished what he meant to say, but as if some- thing internal — something not visible to the eye — had prevented his proceeding farther. The cause was soon made apparent. In a few se- conds he closed his eyes, heaved a gentle sigh, and, with a countenance as placid and cheerful as that of the innocent babe in the moment of its healthful and happy repose, resigned his spirit into the hands of Him who gave it. Such was the death of Mr. Lovegood. No one could have witnessed the singularly pleasing, % MR. lovegood's character. 291 though solemn circumstances which marked his dying moments, without inwardly wishing, " May I die the death of the righteous, and may my last end be like his." Of the character of Mr. Lovegood a very imperfect sketch was given, when we introduced him into our pages in the first volume. It is due to the dead, as it is to be hoped it will prove profitable to the living, to furnish a few additional particulars. Mr. Lovegood was a Christian] philanthropist in the most enlarged acceptation of the phrase. He sought invariably to associate together — as to the eye of enlight- ened reason they ever will be found united — the present good and the eternal well-being of his fellow-creatures. With him it was a fixed principle to do all the good in his power. He lay under the habitual conviction, that man is responsible for his time, and for his opportuni- ties of usefulness ; and that, consequently, after conceding to the necessities of nature and the comfortable support of his family, such a por- 292 MR. lovegood's character. . tion of his time as they required, he was bound to labour for the good of others. He did so labour in various ways — often in ways unknown even to his family ; unknown, indeed, to any human being, with the solitary exception of those who were the objects of his solicitude. His was not the benevolence that delights in display ; his was not the charity that seeks to be paraded in the public prints, or proclaimed on the house tops. The labours of Mr. Lovegood were principally performed in the privacy of obscure life. He never denied himself to any one that sought his advice or assistance. No frown on his face ever frightened away or repulsed the poor timid applicant for an interview. He met all who sought to see him, with a cheerful coun- tenance, and spoke to them in the accents of friendship. Hence, in hundreds of cases, those whom he was unable to aid, or whose pur- poses it was not in his power to promote — even they quitted his presence with sentiments of the highest esteem, and ever afterwards derived MR. lovegood's character. 29S gratification from the recollection of the inter- view. Such was Mr. Lovegood. The writer could never contemplate his character when alive, nor can he recur to it now that he is gone, without imagining in his own mind, how unexpected and surprising must be the disclosures of that eventful day, when the world's teeming popu- latioUj from the time of Adam down to the " last man," shall meet in one mighty assem- blage to hear the irrevocable decisions of the Judge of all. How many myriads of men shall then burst forth on the astonished multitude, as philanthropists of the purest and loftiest order ; men whose benevolence was unwearied, and was only bounded by their means; who passed through life unnoticed and unknown for their deeds of charity and mercy. Their works of benevolence were known only while here, to Him from whom nothing is hid, and to the unhappy creatures to whose necessi- ties they ministered. In another world, their 1^ ^94 MR. lovegood's character. benevolence will be revealed to all. Let this consoling conviction be ever present to the minds of those who are earnestly and unremit- tingly labouring, in secret, for the good of their fellow-men. Let it encourage their hearts and cheer their spirits to be assured that, when the darkness of time shall be dispelled by the light of eternity, all their acts of kindness to their fellow-creatures, shall be owned, acknowledged, and applauded, in the presence of an assembled universe. CHAPTER I. Joseph resolves on visiting his native place — His feelings on reaching it — His emotions on entering the house in which his mother died. Who that has, for any length of time, lived in a strange land, has not been often seized with a longing desire to breathe once more his native air, and to revisit localities endeared to him by the most delightful, because the earliest asso- ciations ? There is something inexpressibly pleasant in once more beholding friends and objects w^ith vrhom one was familiar from the first dawnings of consciousness, and in gazing anew on those rural scenes which first delighted the juvenile eye. Every spot in the place of one's nativity possesses a charm in the eyes VOL. III. B / 2 EARLY SCENES. of him whose lot it has been to be long absent from it. Even the walls of his infant home, — the chairs, the tables, and every other object on which his childish vision was accustomed to gaze, exhibit a loveliness, in his view, of which language can convey no idea. The trees or bushes in the garden, the running rivulet in the neighbourhood, and the woods, and mountains, and meadows, in the surrounding country — all things, indeed, whether they be the workman- ship of nature or of art, which his eye was in the habit of encountering in the boyish era of his existence, are now arrayed in a drapery of surpassing loveliness. Scarcely more dear, indeed, to his heart are the living forms of his friends. With these objects, inanimate though they be, he can hold communion. They revive a thousand recollections of his earliest and happiest days. Memories which have, for many a long year, lain buried in his heart, suddenly gush up in his mind with as much vigour and vividness as if they were but of yesterday. EARLY SCENES. 3 Inanimate objects are, for the moment, invested with the attribute of consciousness. They become vocal also — speaking, in language which makes its way directly to the heart, of the feel- ings and pursuits, the sports and the pastimes of his boyish days. Joseph Jenkins had, for some years past, been the slave of an eager desire to revisit his native place. His heart yearned after one more sight of the house in which his mother died. He longed to gaze again on the sin- gularly beautiful scenery of Morayshire, on which, with all the enthusiasm of youth and the taste of one who had always an exquisite perception of the beauties of nature, he had so often rested his eye with rapturous delight. Twelve long years had now passed since he had quitted the place of his nativity ; and he resolved, whatever might be the inconvenience to himself, once more to revisit the lovely valleys and majestic mountains of Morayshire. There were difficulties in the way of his going 4' JOSEPH VISITS in the manner and under the circumstances he could wish. These we will not name. The reader will, no doubt, at once perceive what they were. They were, however, overcome ; at least, they were so in a great measure ; and Joseph, with exulting heart, embarked at Mil- lar's Wharf for Aberdeen, thence to proceed by coach to Elgin. In four days after he had quitted the metro- polis, he reached Elgin. Though he had been born in a village a few miles from Elgin, he considered that town as a portion of his native place. At its academy, then, as now, famed for the attainments of its masters, and their success in communicating instruction to their pupils, he had received his education, until the period arrived at which he went to the College of Aberdeen. There he had formed all his schoolboy friendships — much more productive of pleasure, because more sincere and unsophisti- cated, than those which are formed in maturer life. There, too, were purchased all the toys, * HIS NATIVE PLACE. O sweetmeats, and other boyish presents — items which go far to make up the sum of juvenile bliss — with which his fond mother was ever loading him. It was, therefore, no wonder if, as Joseph first descried Elgin, with its magnificent cathe- dral, and the lofty umbrageous trees which skirt its eastern and northern extremities, and which are interspersed, in many parts, with the houses themselves ; it was no wonder if, as Joseph first beheld the ancient borough, while passing over the Stonecast (pronounced Stone- coss) Hill, his heart leaped with joy, and the blood rushed to his face. A crowd of reflec- tions instantly rose in his mind, which it is not in the power of language to convey to others. Those only who recollect the feel- ings with which they first beheld the place of their nativity after a protracted absence from it, can have any conception of what was passing in Joseph's mind at this interesting moment. Five minutes more, and he entered the town. At 6 JOSEPH VISITS every successive revolution which the wheels of the coach performed, he recognised faces which were familiar to him in the spring-time of life. Again and again did his heart beat with joy, as his eye encountered the countenances of those shopkeepers (in the north of Scotland, called merchants), standing in their doors, from whom his mother was in the habit of purchasing the articles she required, and with several of whom he himself had had somewhat extensive trans- actions in the way of purchasing sweetmeats. Vivid recollections of penny cakes of ginger- bread, lumps of sugar candy, pocketfuls of lozenges, " sweeties," &c., flashed across his mind, as he once more caught a glimpse of the faces of those who, a quarter of a century before, had weighed or measured out these delectable luxuries to him. Commingling with these remembrances, there was the melancholy consciousness, arising from the many counte- nances, unknown to him, which his eye met as he proceeded along High Street, of the great HIS NATIVE PLACE. ,7 I changes that had taken place in the aspect of the population since he had quitted Elgin. The conviction forced itself with a saddening power on his mind that, when he saw so many new and missed so many old faces, no small number of those who were known to him when he left the place, must ^have been conveyed, in mournful procession, through the principal street to the cathedral burying-ground at the eastern end of the town. The train of reflec- tion to which he was insensibly resigning him- self, was suddenly interrupted by the stopping of the coach at the Gordon Arms Hotel, then kept by Mr. John Webster, as kind-hearted and blythe a Boniface as was to be met with on the road; one, moreover, who will, doubtless, from his long connexion with the Gordon Arms, first as waiter, and afterwards as " mine host," be known to many of our English readers. Here, as the day was far spent, and he was con- siderably fatigued by a journey of sixty-six miles on the top of the coach — that journey 8 JOSEPH VISITS following so close on the heels of a sea-voyage of upwards of five hundred miles — Joseph resolved on resting for the night, without call- ing on any of his friends, or apprising them of his arrival. Next morning Joseph got up early, and hurried out to the house, a few miles distant from Elgin, in which he had dwelt for the last ten years of his Scottish life, and in which his mother had breathed her last. It was with a melancholy pleasure that he entered it. Every object he saw — ^for the party who had taken the house previous to his quitting Scotland, had also purchased the furniture — every object he saw brought back to his mind the recollec- tion of past days, with an almost paralyzing power. There was not a fixture or a piece of furniture in the house, that was not connected, in one way or other, with some interesting inci- dent of his earlier years. But of all that he saw, nothing so directly went to his heart, or so powerfully affected him, as the chair in which HIS NATIVE PLACE. » his mother had usually sat. It had been with her a favourite chair, because the gift of a dear de- parted friend. There it stood, in precisely the same place as that in which it was invariably to be found when his mother was at her meals, or when sitting at the fire employed in needle or any other work. It was still occupied ; but, alas ! it was by another. Joseph's love for his mother came welling from the fountain of his heart. He had been sad before ; the sight of the chair with another sitting in it — a mother, certainly, but not his mother — was too much for him. His feelings obtained the mastery ; he sat down, and gave vent to the emotions which agitated his bosom, in a flood of tears. B^ CHAPTER II. Joseph visits interesting places in his native county — The Elgin Cathedral — Sueno's Pillar at Forres — The place where Macbeth met with the three weird sisters — The river Findhorn. Perhaps there are few counties in the king- dom so distinguished as that of Moray, for the objects and scenes of interest with which it abounds. In the remains of ancient public buildings remarkable for the excellence of their architecture, it may be safely said to stand unrivalled. Among the latter, are the Elgin Cathedral, the Abbey of Pluscarden, and the Abbey of Kinloss. There were four places which Joseph deter- mined to visit before he quitted his native county. These were, the Elgin Cathedral, the ELGIN CATHEDRAL. 11 spot in which Sueno's Pillar is situated, the place at which Macbeth met with the weird sis- ters, and the scenery on the banks of the river Findhorn. Living, as he had done, so many years in the neighbourhood of Elgin, before quitting Scotland, he had repeatedly visited the Elgin Cathedral. As, however, the remains of his mother lay in the burying-ground which sur- rounds it, the place possessed peculiar though, in some respects, painful attractions to him. Of each of these places, with the exception of the banks of the Findhorn, he afterwards gave some account in one of the metropolitan publi- cations. Elgin Cathedral is allowed by all to be one of the most magnificent ruins in the kingdom. It is situated at the east end of the burgh, commonly called the College of Elgin. In tlie beginning of the thirteenth century, Pope Honorius, in compliance with a request made to him to that effect, instructed Bishop Andrew 12 ELGIN CATHEDRAL. Moray to build a cathedral at Spynie, a place about a mile and a half northward from Elgin. The bishop was not pleased with the proposed situation : he consequently petitioned his Holi- ness to be allowed to build it at Elgin, as a more eligible place. The Pope complied with the bishop's request, and by his bull, dated the 4th of April, 1224, granted full power to erect a cathedral at the east end of Elgin, which should be declared the cathedral church of the diocese of Moray in all time coming. The foundation stone of the original building (for, as will be presently seen, it was destroyed and rebuilt) was laid by the bishop on the 17th of July in the same year. About 160 years after its erec- tion, the building was completely destroyed. It was burned to the ground by a personage well known both in the page of history and in the traditionary legends of Scotland. The circum- stances under which its destruction took place, were these: — Lord Badenoch (son of Robert the Second of Scotland), better known by the ELGIN CATHEDRAL. 13 name of " The Wolf of Badenoch," was excom- municated by the Church, in consequence of having seized on the bishop's lands in Bade- noch, and expressed his determination to keep forcible possession of them. Resolved to revenge himself on those of his enemies at whose instance this ecclesiastical punishment had been inflicted on him, he, in the summer of 1390, burned the whole town of Forres, a place about twelve miles westward of Elgin, together with the manse and the choir of the church. In the course of next month, he also burned to ashes the town of Elgin, the Cathedral Church, and eighteen houses of the canons and chap- lains in the College, then, as now, forming the suburbs of the borough. The Wolf of Badenoch, however, was not suffered to commit these depredations on civil and ecclesiastical property with impunity. Pro- ceedings were forthwith instituted against him, and he was obliged to make suitable reparation; which having done, and having, at the same 14 ELGIN CATHEDRAL. publicly expressed his penitence, he received absolution at the hands of Walter Trail, Bishop of St. Andrews, in Blackfriars Church at Perth. The rebuilding of the Cathedral Church was commenced with all possible expedition, under the superintendence of Bishop Barr — every parish in the diocese paying a subsidy, and all the canons contributing for the purpose. In consequence, however, of the commotions of the times, a considerable period elapsed before the building was completed. But in order that it might be protracted as little as possible, the chapter met, in 1414, on the death of Bishop Innes, and bound themselves by a solemn oath, that whoever should be elected bishop, should appropriate one-third of his revenue for the purpose of advancing the building of the cathe- dral. How long it took to complete it, is not known, but it is supposed to have been about twenty years. The style of the building, like that of all other great edifices of the period, was what is ELGIN CATHEDRAL. 15 called the florid Gothic. The cathedral stood due east and west, and was built in the form of a cross. The length of the building was 264 feet, the breadth 35 feet, and the length of the transept 114 feet. There were five great towers ; two of which were at the west end, one in the middle, and two at the east end. The two west towers, so far as regards the stone- work, are still entire, and measure 84 feet each in height. What the height of the spires was, cannot now be ascertained. It is conjectured by some authors who have written about Elgin, that they were of wood, and that they must consequently have fallen long since. The centre tower must have been the grandest ; for, including the spire, it measured 198 feet in height, and lasted long after the others had been reduced to the state in which they now stand. The two towers at the east end are still entire, as far as relates to the stone-work, but they were not nearly so large as the others. The grand entry, which was a very rich speci- 16 ELGIN CATHEDRAL. men of architecture, was between the two towers at the west end. An opinion used to be generally entertained, and still prevails among the less informed classes of the community, that the present ruin- ous state of the Elgin Cathedral is to be ascribed to the blind and bigoted fury of the Reformers in the days of John Knox. Nothing could be farther from the fact. In " Keith's History of the Bishops of Scotland," there is inserted an act of the Privy Council, dated Edinburgh, Feb. 14, 1567-8, in which it is ex- pressly enjoined on the Earl of Huntley, and his deputies, the Sheriffs of Elgin and Forres, and the Bishops of Aberdeen and Moray, &c., " that they defend and assist Alexander Clark and William Birnie, and their servants, in taking down and selling the lead which covered the Cathedrals of Aberdeen and Elgin." From the same unquestionable authority, it appears that the Earl of Murray, then Regent of Scot- land, was greatly in want of money to enable ELGIN CATHEDRAL. 17 him, by means of military force, to put down the rebellion which existed at that time in seve- ral parts of the kingdom ; and that it was for the purpose of attempting to replenish his ex- hausted coffers, that the lead was taken off the roofs of these cathedrals, and disposed of by sale; Agreeably to the mandate of the Regent, the Elgin and Aberdeen Cathedrals were un- roofed, and the lead was shipped at the latter place for Holland ; but scarcely had the vessel left the harbour, than she sunk, and, with her crew and cargo, was wholly lost. The founder- ing of the vessel was attributed by popular superstition to the circumstance of the captain being a Roman Catholic. The Elgin Cathedral, thus uncovered, was never repaired, owing, no doubt, to the progress which the doctrines of the Reformation had by this time made ; and, being thus exposed to the elements, the wooden part of the great tower gradually gave way, and on the morning of Easter Sunday, 1711, it fell to the ground with a tremendous crash. 18 ELGIN CATHEDRAL. Fortunately, though a great many persons had been on the spot a few minutes previously, there were none at the moment of its falling. The diocese of Moray, of which this splendid building was the cathedral church, was one of very great extent. It comprised the counties of Elgin, or Moray, and Nairn, and the greater part of the counties of Banff and Inverness. It had no fewer than fifty-six pastoral charges be- longing to it. The last bishop of the diocese was Patrick Hepburn, well known in Scottish history as the ecclesiastic who was fined for receiving into his house the intercommuned Earl of Bothwell, one of the husbands of the unfortunate Mary Queen of Scots. The cathedral is surrounded by a burying- ground, one of the largest churcliyards perhaps in Great Britain. In it are interred the remains of many distinguished persons, including several of the Kings of Scotland. Among the Scottish monarchs whose bones repose in this place, may be mentioned Duncan, who was murdered by SUENO'S STONE. 19 Macbeth. The churchyard is enclosed by a stone wall. What with the number of the graves, the beauty and variety of the sculptured memorials of departed worth and greatness, and the grandeur of the dilapidated cathedral — a building which is indeed pre-eminently magni- ficent even in its ruins^— the scene is calculated to make a strong impression on the spectator. , During Joseph's stay in Elgin, he paid re- peated visits to the cathedral; not on every occasion for the purpose of seeing the building itself, but sometimes with the view of lingering among the graves in the surrounding burial- ground. There rested the remains not only of his mother, but of many of his acquaintances, who, during his sojourn in England, had been consigned to the narrow house. On the day following his first visit to the cathedral, he set out for Forres, which, as already mentioned, is twelve miles westward of Elgin, to see Sueno's Pillar or Stone, in the immediate neighbourhood of that town. This 20 SUENO'S STONE. curious and interesting stone is admitted on all hands to be the most singular monument of the kind in Great Britain, perhaps in Europe. Many of our most distinguished antiquarians are indeed of opinion, that it has no parallel in any country, Egypt excepted. It is cut out of a large block of granite, of the hardest kind to be found in Scotland. In height it measures twenty-five feet, and in breadth, near its base, about four feet. It is divided into seven de- partments. It is sculptured on both sides ; but the eastern side is by far the most interesting, not only because it is more crowded with figures, but because these figures are executed in a manner which shows that those by whose instructions it was erected, regarded it as the side which should chiefly perpetuate whatever occurrence it was intended to record. The highest department of the obelisk contains re- presentations of nine horses, each with a rider. The latter is apparently rejoicing at the ac-^ complishment of some important object — most SUENO'S STONE. 21 probably some great victory which has been gained. The figures on this division of the stone are more defaced by time than those on the other divisions, but are still sufficiently dis- tinct to prevent any mistake as to what they are. In the next department appear a number of men, all in a warlike attitude. Some are bran- dishing their weapons; while others, as if exult- ing at some joyful event, are represented as holding their shields on high. Others, again, are represented in the act of joining hands, as if reciprocally giving a pledge of encourage- ment and assistance. In the centre of the next line of figures, appear two warriors, who are, seemingly, either making preparations for, or already engaged in, single combat; while their respective friends are witnessing the con- flict with the liveliest interest. Next there are a group of figures witnessing one of their number beheading, in cold blood, the prisoners who have been taken in war. Close to this is a kind of canopy, which covers the heads of those 22 SUENO'S STONE. who have been executed. This canopy is guarded by men, each bearing a halbert. A number of dead bodies are lying on one side. Next are trumpeters blowing their trumpets, in testimony, no doubt, of the triumph which has been obtained by the parties, whose deeds of va- lour the monument is intended to commemorate. In the next division are seen a troop of horses put to flight by a band of infantry, whose first line are armed with bows and arrows ; while those who follow are accoutred with swords and targets. In the next and last department, the horses seem to be seized by the conquering party, the riders are beheaded, and the head of the chief or leader is suspended; which is probably meant to denote the same degradation as if it were hung in chains. The other side of the obelisk is chiefly occupied with a large cross. Beneath it are two persons, evidently of great consequence. They are accompanied by a retinue of attendants, and embrace each other as if in the act of becoming reconciled. SUENO'S STONE. 2S , Such is a description of this very extra- ordinary monument. As to its origin, or the particular events it v^as intended to commemo- rate, we are unfortunately left in uncertainty. Every historian, every traveller, and, indeed, most of the antiquarians in Scotland, have all more or less turned their attention to the sub- ject ; but no two of them are agreed as to the purposes for Mrhich it was erected. Some sup- pose, from the circumstance of the cross being on the obverse side, that it was planted to com- memorate the first establishment of Christianity in Scotland. This, however, is very unlikely ; for, had that been its object, it is difficult to see what connexion so many warlike figures could have had with it. Others maintain that it was raised in memory of the battle of Mort- lach, which battle, having been gained by the Scots over the Danes, eventually led to the expulsion of the latter from the kingdom. This is also a very improbable hypothesis — the battle in question having been fought nearly twenty 24 SUENO'S STONE. miles from the spot where the stone is erected. In fact, there is scarcely any event of national importance that occurred between the com- mencement of the tenth and the close of the twelfth century — for the date of the pillar is generally supposed to lie between these two periods — which has not been supposed by some antiquarian or other, to have been the cause of its erection. The hypothesis of the Rev. Charles Cordiner, a Scottish antiquarian of the last century, respecting the origin of this monument, appears the most probable. His opinion is, that it was raised to commemorate the defeat and expulsion from Scotland, by the Scots, of those Scan- dinavian adventurers mentioned in the " Annals of Torfans," who, joined by a number of chief- tains from the opposite coast of Caithness, had, in the ninth century, established themselves at the neighbouring promontory of Burghead — the most northern point to which the expedition of Agricola penetrated — and who, during the SUENO'S STONE. 25 150 years they kept possession of the place, committed the most extensive depredations throughout the surrounding country. In sup- port of his hypothesis, Mr. Cordiner reasons in this way : — " In their sanguine endeavours to extend their sway, and, at the same time, secure a more speedy retreat to their lines, when car- rying off booty, or baffled in any attempt, the aid of cavalry was of essential and almost indis- pensable importance, and naturally became the distinguishing characteristic of their forces. Of consequence, as it was the great object of Cale- donian policy and valour to seize their horses, in order to defeat their enterprises ; so when, at a fortunate period, they succeeded in totally routing the Scandinavian bands, and compelling them to leave their shores, if they wished to erect a conspicuous memorial of the event, the most striking article would be, to exhibit the seizure of the horses, and the inflicting of a capital penalty on their riders ; and this is done in the most conspicuous department of the VOL. HI. c 26 SUENO'S STONE. column. It is moreover evident, from the con- curring testimony of history and tradition, that part of the troops and warlike adventurers who had embarked in the grand expedition undertaken by Olaus, Prince of Norway, about the year 1000, did reinforce the garrison at Eccialsbacca, in the Burgh of Moray, and made some daring advances towards the subduing of the surrounding counties ; and that, soon after that period, their repeated defeats induced them wholly to relinquish their settlement in that province. No event was therefore more likely to become a subject of national gratitude and honour than those actions in which the princes of Norway and their military adherents were totally defeated, and which so fully paved the way for returning peace to smile over these harassed and extensive territories. And, in consequence of the Scandinavian forces finally evacuating their posts, a treaty of amicable alli- ance might be formed between Malcolm and Canute, or Sueno, King of Norway; and the SUENO'S STONE. ^7 august figures on the base of the cross have been sculptured to express that important recon- ciliation ; while the figures on the adjacent edge of the obelisk, which are joined hand in hand, and in attitudes of friendly communica- tion, may allude to the new degrees of mutual confidence and security which took place after the feuds were settled that are represented on the front of the column." The traditions of the country are certainly more in favour of this view of the matter, than of any other hypothesis which has been ad- vanced. The very name, indeed, given to the pillar — viz. " Sueno's Stone," which it has retained from time immemorial, shows that the opinion of the peasantry in the district always has been, that that Norwegian monarch must, in some way or other, have been connected with its erection. Having several acquaintances in Forres, Joseph, after quitting the site of Sueno's Stone, proceeded to that delightful town, where he 28 THE BANKS OF THE FINDHORN. spent the night. On the following day, being, as mentioned in a previous part of the work, exceedingly fond of natural scenery, he resolved on spending some hours in feasting his vision on the rich and varied scenery for which the banks of the neighbouring river Findhorn, have been always famed. With the exception of two or three miles, immediately before it empties itself into an arm of the Moray Frith, the scenery along the whole course of this river is exceedingly beautiful. From Altyre to Relugas, a distance of five or six miles — the former being three or four miles from Forres — the scenery exceeds anything which it were possible for the most fertile imagination to conceive. The former estate belongs to Sir William Gordon Gumming ; and the other, at the period at which Joseph paid his visit to Scotland, was the property of Sir Thomas Dick Lauder ; and, as both baronets were remarkable for their taste, the effect of the magnificent scenery along the banks of the THE BANKS OF THE FINDHORN. 29 river, was greatly heightened by the rich plan- tations and forests belonging to them, which the eye was able to take in from many of the places whence the best view of the Findhorn was to be had. Joseph has often, since then, declared, that never, in the whole course of his existence, did he gaze on any scene with such rapture as that with which he beheld the magnificent scenery on this river, five or six miles above Forres. It was on a fine August morning, with as clear a sky as any of which Italia herself could ever boast, that, accompanied by a friend, he set out from Forres in search of the sublime and beautiful in nature — if, indeed, a person can be said to set out in search of anything which he knows he is sure to find. After Joseph had reached the banks of the river, a little on the south-west side of Altyre, every fresh step he took opened up new beauties to him. But there was one spot whence was commanded a view which, for its native majesty, its wild magnificence, and the prodigality of its rich- 30 THE BANKS OF THE FINDHORN. ness, has, we verily believe, but few parallels in Europe. It seemed one grand amphitheatre, of unparalleled extent; or, rather, a series of amphitheatres, slightly separated by the wind- ings of the river and the serpentine shape of the mighty mountains which formed the river's banks. At one place, the mountainous banks along the margin of the river were covered, on either side, with rich verdure ; at another, there was nothing but craggy rock. Here the banks gradually sloped ; there, they rose almost per- pendicularly. In either case they were covered with luxuriant heath, largely interspersed with bramble bushes ; while the oak, the larch, the fir, and various other trees, all of nature's plant- ing, rose up in every direction, and were all so beautifully blended together as to give a sur- passing richness to the general scene. On the day before, heavy rains had descended in that part of the Highlands whence the Findhorn takes its rise ; the river was, in consequence, considerably swollen, and foamed and roared as THE BANKS OF THE FINDHORN. 31 it dashed along its course, in a way which was equally striking to the eye and the ear. To add to the grandeur of the view, various small islands, richly studded with trees, stunted in height, but abundantly clothed with foliage, sprang up in the centre of the river ; while, to give still greater effect to the whole scene, on the day on which Joseph gazed on. it with rapturous admiration, not a breath of wind stirred abroad. All was calm as well as clear. The sun shone with a brilliancy not often witnessed in our northern latitudes ; and yet not with so much power as to be unpleasant. The temperature • was just the happy medium between heat and cold. The stillness of the place, the silence of the scene, were, indeed, occasionally broken, but that was under circumstances which only imparted additional sublimity to the general effect. The screams of the eagle, and the flapping of his wings, as the noble bird quitted his eyrie and gambolled in the air, were the only breaches that were made in the profound S2 THE PLACE WHERE MACBETH silence which prevailed. The utter solitude of the place also contributed much to the deep, we had almost said overwhelming, impression pro- duced by the surpassing sublimity of the scene. Not only was that solitude unbroken by the sight of human being, but no traces of the pre- sence of man, by means of his workmanship, were visible to the eye. There stood Joseph and his friend, as if dissevered from the human family — as if living in a world of their own. But the scene was one which admits not of de- scription. It was a scene for the poet to feast on — one on which he could look, in his own mind, in after life, with unspeakable pleasure ; but which he could never adequately transfer, however glowing and graphic his descriptions, to the minds of others. On his return to Elgin, Joseph visited the spot at which the witches met with Macbeth. As the incident is not only recorded in every Scottish history, but occupies a prominent place in Shakspeare's tragedy of Macbeth, it is not MET WITH THE WITCHES. 33 necessary to refer particularly to it. The spot at which the celebrated interview took place, is generally supposed to have been a particular one which is still pointed out on the estate of Brodie, the property of the Laird of Brodie, three or four miles westward of Forres, on the right-hand side of the road to Inverness. Such is undoubtedly the locality which Shakspeare himself had in his eye, when introducing the incident into his tragedy. In this, however, it is now ascertained on the best evidence, that he was mistaken. The poet followed the well- known historian Boethius; and other authors following his authority, the error has been handed down till the present day. The author of this work believes he may take credit to him- self for having been the first to detect the pre- valent error. Having spent nearly thirty years of his life in that part of the country in which many of the incidents embodied in the tragedy of Macbeth, and this incident in particular, occurred, he feels he is entitled to speak c 2 34 THE PLACE WHERE MACBETH with more than ordinary confidence on the point. As the subject is one of great and general interest, it may be right to mention some of the grounds which justify the conviction, that the meeting of Macbeth with the weird sisters did not take place on the estate of Brodie, or on any spot westward of Forres. On referring to the third scene of the first act of the tragedy, it will be observed that, at the time Macbeth met with the witches, he was in company with Banquo and the army, then on their way from Fife to Inverness. It will also be recollected that Banquo is represented as putting the question to Macbeth immediately on meeting with the witches — " How far is't called to Forres ? " It necessarily follows, therefore, that the spot referred to could not have been the scene of this memorable interview ; for, in that case, the murderer of Duncan must not only have already passed through Forres, but must have been several miles on the other side of it ; MET WITH THE WITCHES. 35 and if so, his companion, Banquo, could never have put the above interrogatory. Where, then, it will be asked, did the cele- brated meeting take place ? There is every reason to believe that, as it is distinctly stated the meeting occurred on a moor, within a few miles of Forres, that moor is the one in the vicinity of Gateside, about eight miles westward of Elgin ; and, consequently, four miles on the east or this side of Forres. Such, at all events, was the route which Macbeth must have taken on his way from Fife to Inverness, through the town of Forres; and, on this hypothesis, and on no other, can we perceive the propriety of Banquo's putting the question — " How far is't called to Forres ? " That the spot on the estate of Brodie usually pointed out as that at which Macbeth met with the witches, could not have been the place, is farther evident from the fact, that there is no "blasted heath" in its immediate vicinity. Nor is there any probability that there could have 36 THE PLACE WHERE MACBETH been a blasted heath at the period at which tlie interview took place ; for the estate of Brodie has all the appearance, firom its situation, soil, and other circumstances, of having been always favourable to vegetation : so that, even sup- posing it not to have been cultivated at that time — which, from the known antiquity of the family of Brodie in connexion with that locality, is improbable — Nature herself must have given it a verdant aspect. What favours the opinion, in addition to that which has been already stated, that the inter- view between ]\lacbeth and the weird sisters took place in the locality we have assigned to it, is the fact, that that locality is still emphatically a " blasted heath." It is nearly a mile in length, and, in some places, more than half-a-mile in breadth. It is a singularly bare, desolate place, with a range of high hills on the south side, and a large open space of country, now generally cultivated, with the Moray Frith and the hills of Caithness in the distance. Nor is this all. MET WITH THE WITCHES. 37 Not only is the moor itself, at which the meet- ing in question is assumed to have taken place, still a " blasted heath," but, from its peculiar soil, it must ever remain so. The progress of cultivation can never reach it. It may far- ther be mentioned, that so desolate and barren is the place, that people have a great dislike to travel through it in dark nights. The road to Forres, and thence to Inverness, lies now, as in Macbeth's time, through this large tract of moor, still covered over with the " heath " so common in the mountainaus parts of Scotland. It is just such a place, from its desolate and forbidding aspect, as supernatural beings would single out for an interview with mortal intel- ligences. Since on this subject, it is worthy of observa- tion, that no distinctive character seems to be ascribed by the great majority of Shakspeare*s readers, to the three weird sisters, or witches, whom Macbeth met on his way to Forres. They had, however, peculiar offices assigned to them. 38 THE PLACE WHERE MACBETH " They were," says Pennant, the tourist, " the Fates, the Valkyrae of the northern nations, Gunna, Rota, and Skulda, the handmaids of Odin, the arctic Mars, and styled the Chusers of the Slain ; it being their office, in battle, to mark those devoted to death." It would appear from several ancient authorities that, besides singling out those who were to be slain in battle, it was the special office of these three witches to con- duct the spirits of the departed to " Valhalla, the paradise of the brave, the hall of Odin," Shak- speare seems to have been aware of the offices assigned to his witches. Hence the lines : — " We the reins to slaughter give, Ours to kill, and ours to spare ; Spite of danger he shall live, Weave the crimson web of war." Though these witches are described by Shak- speare as having been, when his hero met them, *' withered and wild in their attire," it would appear, from several historians, that " they frequently presented themselves as very beau- tiful in their appearance, covered with the MET WITH THE WITCHES. 39 feathers of swans, and armed with spear and helmet." Assuming — which there is every reason to do — that the above hypothesis regarding the place at which Macbeth and the three weird sisters met together, is correct, there is something remarkably strange in the fact, that it was in the immediate neighbourhood of the same spot, that Macbeth afterwards murdered King Dun- can. Until the discovery of the actual locality of the murder of Duncan, was made by Sir Walter Scott, three or four years before his death, it was taken for granted that the crime had been perpetrated in Duncan's own castle at In- verness. Sir Walter, however, makes it clear, that the murder was committed at a place called " Bothgowan, or, the Smith's House, near Elgin." This place, though now under a different name, is known to have been situated on the farm of Cloves, lately occupied by Mr. Brander, and is somewhat more than a mile from the spot at which Macbeth met with the 40 MACBETH AND THE WITCHES. three witches ; so that he committed the deed which raised him to the throne of Scotland — ^in other words, fulfilled the prediction of the weird sisters, of being " king hereafter," in the im- mediate neighbourhood of the place at which they uttered it — at a time when its accomplish- ment seemed, in the highest degree, improbable. CHAPTER III. « Joseph goes to a penny wedding — Penny weddings in the Highlands of Scotland — General remarks. Joseph, though having, in his earlier years, often heard of penny weddings in the mountain- ous districts of Morayshire, had never been present at one. And, as he knew they were generally productive of amusing scenes, he re- solved on going to the first that should take place. The sought-for opportunity was soon afforded ; and he, accordingly, accompanied by a college friend, proceeded to the place, about ten miles south-west of Elgin, at which it was appointed to be held. It may be right to mention, for the informa- tion of English readers, that penny weddings 42 PENNY WEDDINGS. used to be quite common in the Highland dis- tricts of the north of Scotland, though latterly they have been gradually becoming less fre- quent. They are called penny weddings, in contradistinction to other weddings, because the parties present fay for the pleasures of the evening. The bride and bridegroom per- sonally invite their own respective acquaint- ances to the wedding several days before the time appointed for the performance of the mar- riage ceremony ; but any other person who wishes it, and is willing to pay the stipulated sum, is always a welcome guest. That sum is usually regulated by the current price of whisky — whisky being the only spirits drunk on the occasion — and varies from three shillings and sixpence to seven shillings for each person. On some occasions as many as 300 persons have been present at one of these penny weddings ; and the profits to the bride and bridegroom, after paying all expenses, have in some cases amounted to from twenty to thirty pounds. PENNY WEDDINGS. 43 With the profits of their wedding, the author has known several instances in which the " newly-married couple," as the newspaper advertisements say, have made a beginning in the world, and afterwards become opulent persons. It may be known to many of our readers, that in Scotland all marriages take place at the house of the parents of the bride, or of those relations with whom she may chance at the time to be staying. If in the humbler ranks of life, and she has been a faithful and obliging ser- vant, it is quite common for the bride to be married in the house of her mistress. In any case, a marriage in a church or chapel is never heard of in Scotland. In the case of penny weddings, the marriage ceremony, so far as the clergyman is concerned, is performed at the house of the bride's parents, if she have any ; and if not, at the house of some relative or friend. But the festive part of the occasion is reserved until she is brought home to the house 44 PENNY WEDDINGS. of her husband. Marriages in Scotland usually take place about five in the afternoon ; and, when the wedding is to be a penny one, only a few persons, and these, for the most part, near relations, are present at the clerical part of the ceremony. The party afterwards sit down to tea, which is followed by a glass of genuine whisky, and a few biscuits. If the bridegroom's house be not far off, the newly-married pair, with their friends, at once adjourn to it, where the evening is spent in feasting and hilarity. But in rural districts — and in these only are penny weddings heard of — the bride, in the great majority of cases, either resides, or is in service, at a distance of some miles. In these cases, the common practice is, to be married at her locality on a Tuesday, and to bring her home to the bridegroom's house on the following Thursday — the guests being all invited to the latter place. The English reader, or even those Scotch readers residing in populous tovms, can have no PENNY WEDDINGS. 45 idea of the sensation created in a particular dis- trict, for six or seven miles around, when it becomes known that a wedding is in contempla- tion. The bride and bridegroom are in every- body's mouth. For weeks before the event comes off, nothing else is talked of in the whole country side. Every little incident in the his- tory of either party is raked up from oblivion, and discussed and commented on with a free- dom and boldness which would satisfy the most devoted friend to liberty of speech. The interest in the coming marriage con- tinues to grow as the period at which it is appointed to take place approaches. Formerly the custom used to be — a custom then required by law — that the banns should be published, or, as they say in Scotland, the parties be " cried," two Sundays before the ceremony took place. After the parties had been thus asked in church, neither of them ventured out oftener than necessity required, because of the badi- nage to which they were sure to be subjected by 46 PENNY WEDDINGS. all the unmarried portion of the community. In the part of Scotland where penny weddings were wont to be most frequent, there used to be a superstitious belief that, if an unmarried person only rubbed shoulders with either a bride or bridegroom — which the parties are considered to be from the time of their being asked or '^^ cried " in church — the individual for- tunate enough to get suiSciently near for the gentle collision, was sure to be married soon afterwards. Hence all the young women in the place literally persecuted the bride, in their anxiety to rub shoulders with her. This was a source of annoyance, and still is, in some cases, to a " published " bride. Then there is that feel- ing of modesty which prevails to so great an extent among young women in the rural dis- tricts of Scotland, when allusion is made to their approaching nuptials — a feeling which almost makes them blush to be seen by their former acquaintances. The extent to which this feel- ing is carried in the north of Scotland, would PENNY WEDDINGS. 47 appear incredible to the English reader. Thus, between one circumstance or other, the period which intervenes between the first announce- ment in the church of an intended marriage, and the period at which it takes place, is, to the bride, one of a very trying nature, apart from all private considerations connected with the new relationship into which she is about to enter. Earnestly does she pant for the arrival of her wedding-day, in order that her embarrassing situation may approach its end. It comes in due course, though she deems the interval from the first publication of the banns until the wedding is over, a little age. To both bride and bridegroom the wedding-day is, in more senses than one, an important day. Most ardu- ous are the duties of both ; but those of the bride are peculiarly so. She is expected to talk per- petually to all around her, during the eating and drinking part of the business. Great things are expected from her in the way of 48 PENNY WEDDINGS. pressing her friends to partake of the good cheer provided for the occasion. And then, when the dancing begins, which it does about seven or eight in the evening, she is expected to dance with everybody who chooses to ask her. On the floor she must toil away, though scarcely able perhaps to move a limb. But by far the most singular duty of the bride at a penny wedding is, that of advancing to all the male persons present, and kissing them in succession. Where this has to be done in 150 or 160 cases, without so much as a moment's breathing time between the salutes, it will readily be believed that the bride has a rather arduous task to per- form. The accuracy of this statement may be questioned by those unacquainted with the usages which prevail in some of the more remote parts of Scotland. It is, nevertheless, strictly true. For its truth the writer, indeed, pledges himself; as he speaks on the point from what he has witnessed with his ovm » eyes. PENNY WEDDINGS. 49 As no ordinary-sized house would contain the half of the guests who are present at a penny wedding, they usually sit down to dinner in the largest barn, or other outhouse, in the neighbourhood. Tables or chairs in sufficient numbers are out of the question ; but an apo- logy for tables is made by means of a certain number of deals of timber, adjusted as they best may ; and forms are found to answer for chairs. With regard, again, to knives and forks, as these are articles rarely used in those localities where penny weddings are most frequent, every guest is expected to take his own knife and fork with him; if not, there is no alternative for him but to use his fingers. And when a guest, un- provided with knife and fork, is reduced to this necessity, you generally see him trying to keep himself in countenance, and to silence those who, being themselves better provided, may betray a disposition to be witty at his ex- pense, by saying — " Ah, never mind ! Fingers were made before knives and forks." The "^OL. III. D 50 PENNY WEDDINGS. position is one of undoubted orthodoxy ; no one ventures to dispute it, because nobody can. Candlesticks and snuffers are equally scarce commodities at these penny weddings. For the former, as we had once occasion to remark in a previous work, large turnips, with a hole cut out by a knife, are found to be very passable substitutes ; while the fingers of the nearest guest are expected to be available for the work which, in our more refined regions, is usually assigned to a pair of snuffers. Dinner over, dancing begins ; and at penny weddings people do dance. You see none of those insipid, formal, sleepy movements which are called dancing at Almack's, and other less exalted places in this country. There they dance with a spirit and energy which show that they are in earnest. They cheer each other on by cries peculiar to the rural districts of Scot- land, and of which, as all depends on the sin- gular manner in which they are uttered, no idea can be given by description. And with these PENNY WEDDINGS. 51 indescribable vocal sounds, are mingled the loud snapping of fingers, the clapping of hands, and the beating of feet. And then to see the coun- tenances of those who are the occupants of the floor ! There is a language in their looks which cannot be mistaken. They have for the moment unreservedly resigned themselves to the plea- sures of the occasion ; and their enjoyment is as visible in their countenances as the sun is in the firmament. As the evening advances, the company, aided by the inspirations of copious draughts of "mountain dew," increase in the vivacity of their spirits, and in the energy with which they perform the physical evolutions cha- racteristic of Scottish dancing. The four or five fiddlers stuck up in some corner of the place, and made more musical by the agency of whisky, participate in the merriment of those whose feet are responding to their soul -inspir- ing strains. By and by the hilarity becomes so uncontrollable, and withal so general, that all regard for regularity, either in the music of the LIBRARY UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 52 PENNY WEDDINGS. fiddlers, or the movements of the dancers, vanishes entirely. The Apollos continue to pro- duce sounds, but they have ceased to discourse music. The parties occupying the floor continue to move about, but they no longer dance. All is now confusion : the place has the appear- ance of a mob without any definite object in view. The sound of the violin has died away ; the fiddlers are asleep. The more orderly of the company begin to take their departure for their respective homes : others follow without know- ing why. It is now three or four, or it may be five in the morning ; and the only remains of the late company are a young man who has sprained his ancle in the dance, lying in a corner, until a friend brings a horse, from a house at some distance, to take him home ; and a fiddler in the opposite corner, who, having resolutely declined to be awakened by either the shaking or pricking of friends, has been left to sleep away to his heart's content. Judging from the desperate energy with which he is snoring, PENNY WEDDINGS. 53 and the rapidity with which the nasal sounds succeed each other, you are justified in conclud- ing that there is no prospect of an immediate termination to his slumbers. If the weather be fine, the guests at penny weddings usually adjourn, when they become a little excited, from the barn or other outhouse in which the dancing commenced, to the open air. There, on the green sward, with no other covering than the sky, do they " trip the light fantastic toe " until the moon and stars have shrunk into invisibility before the splendours of the rising sun. The penny wedding at which Joseph was present, afibrded an instance of this. It was on a fine summer's eve that he proceeded to the spot at which the wedding was to take place ; and as beautiful a summer's morn as ever dawned on our meridian, succeeded that beautiful eve. The dancing on the occasion was kept up till a later hour than had ever been known. Probably the reason was that, having taken the green sward and the open air 54 PENNY WEDDINGS. earlier than usual, and there being consequently fewer facilities for quaffing potations of whisky, the guests were better able to protract the merri- ment on the occasion. But whatever may have been the cause, the dancing was continued until half-past five in the morning — the lovely war- blings of the lark mingling with, and almost drowning, the faint and feeble sounds sent forth by the exhausted fiddlers. It ought to be mentioned, that a penny wed- ding requires the most active preparations for it, during the previous eight days. Nor do the duties of the occasion cease with the wed- ding-day — which, as before stated, is almost invariably on a Thursday. On the two follow- ing days the happy pair are expected to keep open house for such of their friends as may be pleased to call upon them. The fragments that remained after the marriage-feast, constitute ex- cellent materials for treating the friends who honour the married couple with a call. Then comes Sunday, and with it the churching — PENNY WEDDINGS. 55 which is a very different matter in the rural dis- tricts of Scotland, from what it is in England. As in thinly peopled districts, all persons are known to each other, the circumstance, espe- cially in the case of the bride, of being exposed for nearly two hours to the gaze of every one in the church, just as if the married couple were a pair of wild beasts — is one of a very trying kind. Perhaps it is to her the most trying ordeal she has to go through in connexion with her marriage. What, however, cheers her up during the emergency, is the consideration that it is the last incident of the scene ; and that after it is over, she will settle quietly down in her new relation of a married woman. Penny weddings are looked forward to with the deepest interest by all the unmarried young women in the district. They are usually pro- ductive of attachments which terminate in mar- riage. At these weddings " the lasses " appear to the best advantage. For weeks before the wedding-day, all is bustle in preparing their 56 PENNY WEDDINGS. dresses for the occasion ; and, when the day arrives, they not only put on their best apparel, but also their best looks. They regard a penny wedding as one of the most favourable oppor- tunities which can occur of making conquests. Hence — and surely no one will be so ungallant as to blame them — they do all they can, by the smartness of their dress and the fascination of their manner, to entangle some of the swains who are present, in the meshes of a love suf- ciently ardent to justify the expectation that it will ripen, in due time, into a matrimonial proposal. It must, however, be mentioned in conclu- sion, that penny weddings promise, ere long, to become matter of histor3\ They are, as remarked in the commencement of the chapter, rapidly going out of use. Twenty, or even fifteen years ago, nearly all weddings among the humbler classes in certain districts of the north of Scotland, were penny weddings. Now it may be doubted whether there be one penny PENNY WEDDINGS. 57 wedding for twenty weddings of the ordinary kind — weddings at which only a few friends are present, and where no payment is received from the guests. CHAPTER IV. Pluscarden Abbey — Its antiquity and situation — Curious traditionary legend connected with it. Reference has been made, in a previous chap- ter, to the Abbey of Pluscarden, as being one of the most magnificent ruins in Scotland. The remains of this once noble building are six miles westward of Elgin, in one of the love- liest valleys in the land. Joseph visited the abbey repeatedly during his stay in his native county. It was built in the early part of the thirteenth century. Its situation is remarkable. It lies at the foot of one of the largest ranges of mountains in that part of Scotland. It is completely sheltered from the north winds ; the mountain at whose base it is situated, being TRADITIONARY LEGEND. 59 many hundred feet in height. About a mile and a half in an opposite direction, is another range of high hills, but so gradual in their slope, and so fertile in soil, as to be capable of profitable cultivation. Around the abbey itself are numbers of large trees, many, if not all of them, boasting an antiquity of several centuries. One pear tree, in the spot where the garden of the abbey stood, is ascertained to have been planted by one of the earliest monks w^ho lived in the abbey, and consequently has reached the almost incredible age of six hundred years. In a southern and western direction, there are small forests, some of them of man's plantation, and others of nature's growth, which greatly add to the beauty of the scene. Connected with the place, there are many interesting legends; and it is for the purpose of briefly relating one of these, in which there is much of the air of romance, that we have been led to refer to the venerable building. When Joseph first heard it, it struck him as a legend, out of 60 TRADITIONARY LEGEND. which a skilful novelist could easily manufac- ture his three volumes. The outline may be given in eight or ten pages, under the heading of " Edmund and Anna." Edmund and Anna, the one the eldest son, and the other the eldest daughter of two of the most influential men in the north of Scotland, were among the most devoted lovers the world ever witnessed. Anna possessed every quality, mental and personal, calculated to win the affections of our sex. But, independently of Anna's personal fascinations, there were adven- titious circumstances which must, of themselves, have produced in the breast of Edmund a pe- culiar attachment to her. Five suitors had importunately solicited her hand in marriage during the time he was paying his addresses to her ; and among these was Melvyn, a neigh- bouring nobleman, high in the esteem of his sovereign, Alexander the Second, of Scotland. But Edmund, though inferior in station to TRADITIONARY LEGEND. 61 Melvyn, and each of his other four rivals, was unhesitatingly preferred to them all. No less fervent was the affection with which he regarded Anna. His entire existence was bound up in hers, and the world and life itself, when weighed in the balance with her, were indeed found to be wanting. The nuptial morn of the youthful lovers was one of the most delightful which ever burst on the world. It was in the month of May. The ground was beautifully carpeted with new-born grass. The garden, the orchard, the hedge, the plantation, the forest — all smiled in their new attire. The sun poured forth his beams with more than wonted profusion, tinging all creation with an exquisite radiance ; while in- numerable choristers of every species of the feathered tribe, imparted, by the melody of their warblings, additional charms to that bright morn. Nature herself, in fine, seemed, on this occasion, to be jubilant at the approaching nuptials of a pair who were so pre-eminently 62 TRADITIONARY LEGEND. worthy of each other's warmest and most sin- cere affections. The vassals of Emerson, Anna's father, exulted without measure at the circumstance of their chieftain's only daughter being about to be united to the youth of her choice ; and as all were that evening to participate in the ample festivities of the baronial hall, they attired themselves in the best costume of their clan, and prepared to celebrate the joyous event with all becoming respect for their chieftain, and the young bride and bridegroom. The afternoon arrived, and, at the hour of five, the beautiful bride approached the hyme- neal altar, accompanied by her bridesmaids and the wives and daughters of the more respectable of her father's vassals. Edmund was present at the appointed hour, luxuriating in waking dreams of the matchless bliss which was about to be secured to him. The vene- rable Abbot of Pluscarden, a man who was verging on seventy years of age, and whose TRADITIONARY LEGEND. 63 countenance eloquently discoursed of his un- affected piety, stationed himself beside the interesting couple, and, before proceeding to go through the matrimonial ceremony, he uttered, with a mingled air of mildness and solem- nity, the usual behest — "Join hands." The lovers extended their respective hands to each other. Anna's was white as the unsunned snow, while her beautiful countenance was suf- fused with a deep blush, indicative of modesty — a blush which, if possible, imparted new fasci- nations to her unrivalled face. The reverend abbot now commenced the marriage ritual. With uplifted hands, and a countenance beam- ing with benignity, he was addressing his ori- sons to the Supreme Being, imploring his special benediction on the youthful pair now kneeling at the altar, when an arrow from some invisible bow infixed itself in his heart. That instant he dropped on the floor at the feet of those who surrounded him. All present were horror-struck at the strange circumstance, and 64 TRADITIONARY LEGEND. gazed on each other in mute amazement — simul- taneously listening, at the same time, as if by instinct, in the hope that they should hear such sounds in some part of the building as would lead them to the discovery of the assassin ; but the first thing that broke the death-like silence that prevailed, was the expiring groan of the aged abbot. The bride fainted at the appalling scene ; and, while the bridegroom was in the act of raising her up, Melvyn, attended by a host of his myrmidons, suddenly appeared at the por- tals of the place, their flaming eyes speaking the deeds of blood on which they were intent. " See to the protection of Anna ! " cried Ed- mund ; and he clenched his dagger in his hand. He burned to revenge himself on his deadly foe ; but he could not so far master his feelings of affection for his bride, as to quit her to engage in conflict with Melvyn. Apprised of the presence of the unhallowed intruders, the clansmen of Emerson rushed to the aid of their chieftain, his daughter, and her bridegroom. TRADITIONARY LEGEND. 65 The hall was now crowded with foemen, ranged under two great divisions; each vassal willing and prepared to shed the last drop of his blood in the quarrel of his respective chief- tain. The conflict commenced with the utmost fierceness on either side. The clashing of the instruments of death might have been heard far and wide, till at length, overpowered by supe- rior numbers, the clansmen of Emerson were almost all strewed on the floor, either already in the embraces of death, or momentarily expecting to be so, from the number and severity of their wounds. Edmund and Emer- son defended Anna with more than mortal bravery ; but Melvyn and their leading vassals at last surrounded them, wrenched their dag- gers from them, and consequently rendered Anna's farther protection beyond the compass of human courage and power. " Spare the two miscreants," referring to Emerson and Edmund ; " spare the two mis- creants, that mortification may be their portion," 66 TRADITIONARY LEGEND. cried Melvjn, addressing himself to his surviv- ing clansmen, as he seized the affrighted Anna in his arms, and hurried with her to the door, A steed was there in waiting, which he mounted, and, placing Anna before him, he galloped off with his prize to his own castle, only seven miles distant, followed by his vassals. " Thou art now in safe custody, young lady," said he to Anna, as one of his servants shut the ponderous iron gate which fronted his walled castle. On reaching his mansion, Melvyn led Anna into the most splendid apartment in it; and, having placed before her the most dehcious refreshments the house could afford, he pressed her to partake of them. She refused. "Is not thy foolish obstinacy yet overcome, lady?" said he to Anna, in a half-sneering tone. " Whe- ther, think you," continued the haughty chief- tain, " are a dungeon and chains, or being made the lady of Melvyn Castle, more to be pre- ferred?" Anna was silent ; she uttered not a word. TRADITIONARY LEGEND. 67 " Nay, young maid, hast not thou the use of that member so characteristic of thy sex?" said Melvyn, sarcastically. Anna, who had but partially recovered from her swoon, when wrested from the arms of Edmund, and who had taken it for granted that both he and her father had been the victims of Melvyn's fury, implored the chieftain, in accents which were repeatedly interrupted by the irrepressible grief which swelled her gentle bosom, and which vented itself in an ocean of tears, to terminate her life that instant, as an act of tender mercy. " A few hours of a solitary dungeon will, perhaps, bring thee to thy senses, and cure thee of thy regards for Edmund; if not, I shall then wed thee per force," said Melvyn; and, so saying, he dragged the agonized Anna to a gloomy cell, in which he was wont to incarcerate the persons of such of his vassals as had incurred his displeasure. The enraged chieftain then despatched a 68 TRADITIONARY LEGEND. special messenger for a priest to unite himself and Anna in marriage ; but the priest being some distance from home, several hours elapsed before his services could be obtained. Emerson and Edmund, v^ho, though v^orsted in the conflict between them and Melvyn's party, had been permitted to enjoy their liberty unmolested after the latter had decamped with Anna, began to muse on the calamity which had befallen them; and to think whether or not it was within the range of possibility to do anything for the recovery of the person of the bride. Edmund was intimately acquainted with Melvyn's castle and its vicinity ; and knew that, after sunset, there was one part of its walls defended only by one person, which he thought it might be, perhaps, practicable to scale ; and if they could succeed in this, and slay the senti- nel, they might, undiscovered, enter the castle itself, and yet rescue Anna from the grasp of the haughty chieftain. TRADITIONARY LEGEND. 69 The project wore a sufficiently desperate aspect; but Edmund, ay, and Emerson too, though comparatively advanced in years, were both in that reckless state of mind which fitted them to undertake any enterprise within the confines of practicability. Calling to their assistance, and acquainting them with their project, the most spirited of those of Emerson's vassals who had survived the recent conflict, the bridegroom and the bride's father, accordingly, armed themselves at every point; and hastened to the neighbourhood of Melvyn's walled castle. The sun had buried himself below the western horizon two hours before they left Emerson's hall on their adventurous purpose. The night was exceedingly dark; hours had to elapse before the moon would show her visage ; and not one of the countless lesser luminaries which at other times bestud, and sparkle in, the firma- ment, was visible to the eye. All were en- shrouded from mortal gaze by one apparently 70 TRADITIONARY LEGEND. vast cloud. Emerson, Edmund, and their party, amounting in all to twelve, arrived at the part of the wall they were to attempt to scale ; and one of the tallest and stoutest of their number placed himself in the position best adapted for enabling the others to avail themselves of the assistance of his shoulders in endeavouring to scale it. Edmund, with sword in hand, was the first to make the attempt, and, on reaching the summit, was astonished to find there was no sentinel there. Impressed with the idea, from the various voices he heard on the outside, and not being able, from the pitchy darkness of the night, to correct his error, that there were a vast number of regularly-organized besiegers, the sentinel, instead of remaining at his post, had returned to the castle for the purpose of giving the alarm. Ten of the eleven that remained, in- stantly followed Edmund; but the other, not having any one to assist him to scale the wall, was obliged to remain outside. Edmund's party were at the castle almost contemporaneously TRADITIONARY LEGEND. 71 with the sentinel ; and at the most important part of it before him. The brilliant illumina- tion visible in one of the most spacious apart- ments, led them immediately to it. Edmund unceremoniously burst open the door, rushed in, and was followed by Emerson and the rest of the party. There was exhibited to their astonished gaze, the spectacle of Anna in her bridal robes, pouring forth the agonies of her heart in rapidly succeeding sobs and tears, and being supported by one of Melvyn's sisters. The lord of the castle grasped her snow-white hand in his. Around were a numerous party, and the priest, who had arrived but a few minutes before, had just pronounced the first sentence of the matrimonial service. " Villain!" ex- claimed Edmund, with his eyes directed to Melvyn, and flashing with boundless indigna- tion. And, as he uttered the epithet, he rushed toward his hated foe, and, ere the latter had time to use a weapon in his own defence, Edmund sheathed his sword in his bosom. Melvyn fell 72 TRADITIONARY LEGEND. prostrate on the floor ; but such was the deadly animosity he bore towards Edmund, that, though he only survived two minutes thereafter, he partially rose up, seized his dagger, and aimed it at the breast of Anna — exclaiming at the same time, under the impres- sion that the thrust was successful, " Nor shalt thou, scoundrel, enjoy her either;" but Edmund had already seized her in his arms, and the thrust which was made at her, proved mortal to Melvyn's own brother, who, in the confusion of the moment, occupied the place on which Anna had stood but an instant before. Entering the castle of Melvyn thus unex- pectedly, and finding its inmates anticipating scenes of festivity rather than of mortal con- flict, Edmund and his party found no difficulty — not even resistance — in carrying off" Anna in triumph. The massy iron gate was speedily demolished, and in three hours afterwards they reached home. On the following day they pro- ceeded to the hymeneal altar, where the nuptial TRADITIONARY LEGEND. 73 knot was tied. The bride and bridegroom returned to the house of the latter, and spent the remainder of their days in peace and hap- piness. VOL. III. E CHAPTER V. Joseph visits a friend in Alves — Sacramental services in the parish church — Moderatism and evangelism in Scotland contrasted. Among the friends of his mother whom Joseph visited during his temporary sojourn in his native county, there was one in the parish of Alves, a place five or six miles westward of Elgin. Joseph went to his friend's house on Wednesday, and continued his visit till the following Monday. It chanced to be the sacra- mental occasion, which takes place in country parishes once a-year ; and the day after his arrival was observed, according to the prescribed rules of the Presbyterian Establishment, as a fast or preparation day. The pulpit of Alves being at that time the only one in the presbytery of A SCOTTISH SACRAMENT. 75 Elgin, in which the Gospel was faithfully preached, the state of religion in that parish presented a remarkable contrast to what it did in the other seven or eight parishes constitut- ing the presbytery. Evangelical himself, and in earnest about the momentous matters of eter- nity, the minister of A Ives invariably took care to invite those clergymen only to assist him at the dispensation of the sacrament, who shared his views, and were equally zealous for the spiritual well-being of those committed to their care. Hence the truly pious belonging to all the surrounding parishes, always looked forward to the yearly return of the administration of the Lord's Supper at Alves, as to a high religious festival. Multitudes came to be present on the solemn occasion, from a distance of fifteen, twenty, and even, in some cases, thirty miles. Some there were (those who could conveniently leave their homes) who came on the Thursday morning, that they might be present at the preparatory services of that day — at the prayer- 76 A SCOTTISH SACRAMENT. meetings held in the evenings in the houses of the elders and other pious individuals — and at the immediately preceding services of the sanc- tuary held on the Saturday. But, as compa- ratively few could leave home for so long a period, the great body of strangers from a dis- tance arrived about nine or ten o'clock on the Sabbath morning — the solemn services of that day commencing at the latter hour. And beautiful, inexpressibly beautiful to the spiritual- minded man, and picturesque in no ordinary degree, even to the unrenewed man, was the sight of the multitudes that poured in from all quarters to be present on the occasion. From eight to ten o'clock, there was no part of the surrounding country which the eye could reach, in which were not to be seen numerous groups of threes, fours, fives, or more, all directing their anxious steps to the parish church of Alves — at that time, as far as the Establishment was concerned, emphatically the house of God. As the period fixed for the administration of the A SCOTTISH SACRAMENT. 77 sacrament, always was in the summer season — the month of July, if we remember rightly — the pious peasants, who came a great distance, were often to be seen, oppressed with the heat and wearied with the length of the way, walking barefooted, and carrying their shoes and stock- ings in their hand. And, as they walked, they conversed together about spiritual things. They spoke of their religious experience — related to each other the impression which particular sermons had made on their minds on particular occasions — what passages in the holy oracles had principally occupied their thoughts of late — what uninspired, but pious authors, they liked best — and to which of the works of those authors they were most partial, and most frequently read. Among the books which almost all had in their keeping, or, which is nearly the same thing, the substance of which was deeply en- graved in their memories, there were " Bun- yan's Pilgrim's Progress," " Baxter's Saint's Rest," " Boston's Fourfold State," the sermons 78 A SCOTTISH SACRAMENT. of the Messrs. Erskine (Ralph and Ebenezer), and " Willison's Afflicted Man's Companion." Clear and correct are the views which the Scto- tish peasantry have of divine truth. Many a simple pious peasant, unacquainted with human learning, has he who pens these lines known in his native land — at whose feet he would far sooner sit for instruction in divine truth, than at the feet of the most learned and most dis- tinguished divine of the day. Need it, then, be added, how deeply interesting to the renewed mind it must have been, to listen to the conver- sation of these godly people, as they proceeded on their way to worship their Maker amid the solemnities peculiar to a sacramental occasion. No one could have seen them coming from all quarters to the parish church of Alves, without being forcibly reminded of the description given in the Old Testament, of the children of Israel making their yearly pilgrimages from all parts of Judea to Jerusalem, there to worship Jehovah in the temple. A SCOTTISH SACRAMENT. 79 On the sacramental occasion at Alves, at the period to which we refer, the number of strang- ers was so great that the church could not con- tain, capacious as it was,one-half the congregation. Though the church was crowded to suffocation, there was an immense concourse of persons in the adjoining churchyard ; and for them, also, the then clergyman of the parish — a namesake of the writer of these volumes — ^provided divine worship. So that, contemporaneously with his own impressive preaching within the walls of the church, there were the ministrations of some zealous and gifted clergyman in the adja- cent churchyard. The occasion was inexpres- sibly interesting — the scene was inconceivably solemn. As distinctly does the writer remem- ber, as if it had been but an event of yesterday, listening in the churchyard of Alves, twenty years ago, to the searching sermon of the minis- ter who had come from a distance to assist his reverend namesake. The day was oppressively hot : the perspiration ran in copious streams 80 A SCOTTISH SACRAMENT. down the face equally of preacher and hearer. And yet the immense concourse who formed the open-air audience of the minister, sat as patiently beneath the scorching rays of the sun for two hours — nearly an hour and a half being occupied with the sermon alone — as if they had been luxuriating in the Arcadian groves pic- tured forth in the imaginations of the poets of antiquity. And what, does the English reader suppose, were the seats on which those of the assembled multitude who sat at all, reclined ? They were chiefly of nature's workmanship. Some scored there might have been who sat on the grave-stones in the immediate vicinity of the preacher ; but the great majority of those who sat at all had no other seat than the green grass beneath their feet — more green because springing out of ground appropriated to the reception of the dead. Hundreds, in order that they might be as near to the minister as pos- sible, did not sit at all, but stood beneath the burning beams of the sun during the two hours A SCOTTISH SACRAMENT. 81 the services lasted. The scene altogether re- called to my mind the days of the Covenanters — a class of persons with whose history and habits I was at that time more familiar than I now am. Regarding them then as I still do, as being with, perhaps, the solitary exception of the Waldenses and the Albigenses, the noblest army of witnesses and martyrs for the truth the world ever beheld, the occasion was to my mind one never to be forgotten. Still I can imagine T gaze on the scene. The vast assemblage, with the minister in their midst, are at this moment vividly present to my mind. I fancy I see the solemn aspect of the preacher, and witness the no less solemn demeanour of the hearers. He was earnest — they were attentive. Impressive, in the highest degree, was the minister's man- ner ; serious, in the highest degree, did his hearers all appear. Searching — most searching — was the sermon delivered on the occasion. Awfully profound indeed must have been the sleep of that conscience which was not roused e2 82 A SCOTTISH SACRAMENT. by it. Forcible were the preacher's appeals to the unconverted; encouraging and consoling were his addresses to those who had experienced the power of regenerating grace. An appro- priate and impressive prayer followed, as it had preceded, the delivery of the sermon ; and the worship of God was closed, as it had com- menced, with a suitable song of praise. In that song of praise every one present engaged. We do not believe there was even a solitary excep- tion. The large concourse, met together for the worship of their Maker, united with one voice — as we doubt not they cordially did with one heart — in their ascriptions of glory to his name. Unconfined by the walls, and un- obstructed by the ceiling of a house made with hands, the sound of their melody ascended, if we may be pardoned the idea, direct to those heavens which are in a special sense the habita- tion of the throne of Him whom they wor- shipped and adored. In the church itself, the moment was now at A SCOTTISH SACRAMENT. 83 hand when the first of the series of " tables '* was to be " served." It may be proper here to mention, for the information of English readers, that, in the Presbyterian Establishment, instead of all the members sitting down at once, as they do here, to the communion-table, only about a fourth and fifth part of their number sit down at a time. Hence there are four or five sepa- rate communion services. The reasons of this are, first, that there is not accommodation in the area of the Scotch places of worship for all the members of a particular church sitting down at once ; and, secondly, that there are always not only large accessions of strangers from the sur- rounding country in the capacity of hearers and spectators, but of communicants also. The result is, that on most sacramental occasions in the Scottish Church, where the clergyman is evangelical, the services are protracted from ten till half-past two. In Alves, at the period re- ferred to, where the faithfulness of the minister and his assistants, led to a lengthened address at 84 A SCOTTISH SACRAMENT. each successive distribution of the sacramental elements, the services w^ere protracted till nearly four o'clock. After the brief interval of an hour and a half, they were again resumed, v^hen the solemn work in which the communicants had been engaged, and the solemn scenes of which non-communicants had been spectators, were made the special subject of another sermon. The latter service — the sermon being, as on all other occasions in the Presbyterian Church, pre- faced and accompanied by praise and prayer — occupied about two hours ; so that, with the intermission of an hour, or an hour and a half, the services of a sacramental Sabbath in the parish church of Alves, at the period to which our own observations point, lasted from ten in the morning till nearly eight in the evening. And in hundreds of other parish churches in Scot- land, where evangelical truth is preached, the services are still as protracted, or nearly so, on sacramental occasions. On the Monday, other two sermons, called thanksgiving sermons, are A SCOTTISH SACRAMENT. 85 preached by the clergymen who have been assisting the minister of the parish ; and with these, conclude a series of the most solemn re- ligious services of which the human mind can form any conception. In England — whether we speak of the Establishment or of Dissenting places of worship — no idea can be formed, from the way in which the sacrament of the supper is administered among us, of the solemnity of feeling with which a sacramental occasion is regarded among the evangelical portion of the Scottish people. For at least three weeks be- fore the advent of the sacramental Sabbath, the ministrations of the preacher have a special reference to the coming occasion. And prayer- meetings in the houses of pious persons, instead of being held once a-week, are, as the day ap- proaches, held every night. It is the same for a week, at least, after the Sabbath has passed. A deeper tone of piety is perceptible in the con- versation and conduct of the parishioners for a few weeks previously and subsequently to the 86 A SCOTTISH SACRAMENT. sacramental Sunday ; while on the day itself, you would almost imagine that the parishioners had ceased to belong to the world at all. The entire day — those portions of it which are necessarily spent at liome, as well as those which are spent in the sanctuary — is exclusively set apart for devotional exercises. Individual self- examination and prayer, and family worship, including praise as well as prayer, occupy the morning until breakfast- time. That over, which it usually is by nine o'clock, the inmates of every house, with the strangers who may be temporarily residing with them, prepare for pro- ceeding to the sanctuary. When the public services of the day are ended, the parishioners return to their respective homes, where, in in- dividual retirement and around the family altar, they spend the remainder of the evening, in pouring out their hearts in prayer and thanks- givings to God. Scarcely a word of worldly conversation is heard to escape their lips. No loungers are to be seen in the fields. It is, in a A SCOTTISH SACRAMENT. 87 sense of which none but those who have spent a sacramental Sabbath in the parish of a pious minister J can form the slightest idea, a solemn season ; reminding one of the solemn seasons of which we read in the records of Old Testament inspiration. How striking the contrast to this state of things is that which is exhibited in the pulpits and parishes in which the evil genius of Mode- ratism has found a lodgment. Moderatism, it is right to mention, for the information of those who may be unacquainted with the import of the term — Moderatism signifies those principles and that mode of preaching, which studiously exclude all that is vital in the Gospel scheme, and substitute, for evangelical truth, a cold, heartless system of morality. Moderatism deals only with men's heads ; it makes no appeal to their hearts. It takes no cognizance of the inward man ; it, indeed, denies, practically at least, that there is an inward man. It ad- dresses itself solely to the denunciation and 88 A SCOTTISH SACRAMENT. correction of the grosser immoralities of one's life. He who is honest and harmless in his intercourse with his fellow-men is, in the eye of Moderatism, a saint of the first magnitude. The religion of the heart is, in the vocabulary of Moderatism, synonymous with fanaticism in its worst forms. If a man talk of his religious experience, he is giving utterance to the lan- ffuao'e of cant. If a Moderate allude at all to the atonement, or to any of the other distinc- tive doctrines of the Gospel, the allusion is either so vague as not to be understood, or is made in so cold and lifeless a manner as to make no impression on the minds of those to whom it is addressed. Go into a Moderate church in Scotland, and you may sit out the sermon in doubt as to whether the minister is even theoretically acquainted with the Christian scheme. You hear nothing but a cheerless morality falling from his lips, delivered in a cold, monotonous, unimpassioned tone. You see that his heart is not in his work ; that he A SCOTTISH SACRAMENT. 89 preaches only because he is paid for it. He is inculcating precisely such moral truths as are to be found in the works of Plato, Socrates, and other ancient philosophers. And yet he is not delivering those truths, though he dignifies them (what an awful prostitution of language !) with the name of a Gospel sermon, with a tithe of the earnestness or animation which either of the heathen philosophers we have named, would have shown in the inculcation of the same pro- positions. Hence, anything more heartless than the sermons and services which are heard and witnessed in a Moderate place of worship, can- not be conceived. There sit the listless hearers ; for indifference on the part of a preacher invari- ably communicates itself to his audience. It is a contagious disease. It cannot enter the pul- pit without infecting the congregation. A more painful moral picture is not to be seen, than that of a people sitting under the ministrations of a Moderate preacher. All is dark and desolate — cold and cheerless. You feel that you are 90 A SCOTTISH SACRAMENT. living in a moral frigid zone. If you have any sense of spiritual things, every word, of the preacher falls on your ear with a chilling and withering effect. Terrible have been the fruits of Moderatism in many districts of Scotland. Instances have been known in which, in entire parishes, it would have been difficult to find half-a-dozen really pious and spiritually-minded individuals. There was, to be sure, the exter- nal appearance of attention to religious duties ; but it was appearance only. The worship, if worship it might be called, was purely mechani- cal. There was no more soul or spirit in it than if the parties had been so many figures of wax or of wood. Such is that Moderatism which, for several generations, has been, spiritually speaking, the curse of Scotland. It may be compared to a great moral upas tree, poisoning and destroying everything within its reach. It was the natural effect of that system of patronage introduced in the reign of Queen Anne, which enabled grace- A SCOTTISH SACRAMENT. 91 less patrons to put into the pulpits of the parishes under their control, in defiance of the wishes of the people, a body of men calling themselves ministers of the Gospel, but who knew, experimentally, no more of the power of religion, than the cattle which grazed on the surrounding lands. Moderatism is now, hap- pily, in a fair way of being entirely exiled from Scotland. It is vanishing before the progress of evangelical truth ; and will, it is to be hoped, ere another generation shall have passed away, cease to exist entirely in any other place than the pages of Scotland's ecclesiastical his- tory. But we have been committing a slight digres- sion. We were speaking of the contrast ex- hibited on a sacramental Sabbath in a church of which a Moderate is the minister, to the state of things in a place of worship where the pulpit is filled by a pious evangelical preacher. Where Moderatism prevails, all is mere form. Even the administration of the Lord's Supper, which 92 A SCOTTISH SACRAMENT. is the most solemn ordinance connected with the Christian faith; even that solemn ordi- nance, when administered by the hands of a Moderate, degenerates — it is painful to write it — into a matter of mere mechanical observ- ance. The preacher speaks in cold, unim- passioned tones, and in the most vague and general language which can be employed, of the circumstances under which the ordinance was instituted. His tone and manner tell, with a terrible plainness, that his heart is not affected by the truths to which his lips are giving utterance. It is because the Church of Scot- land appoints the yearly observance of the Last Supper of the Saviour, and not because of its divine appointment, that he celebrates that memorable event at all. In proof of this, it may be remarked, that many Moderate minis- ters have been known to incur the risk of Church censures and Church punishments, by suffering several years to pass without having one sacra- mental occasion in their churches. What A SCOTTISH SACRAMENT. 93 could more plainly show, that that which is to every true Christian the most valued and most delightful of all the ordinances of religion, is to Moderatism so irksome as to be all but intole- rable ? What wonder if the people who are doomed to sit under the ministrations of a Mode- rate, should not enter into the spirit of the ordi- nance, nor derive any pleasure or profit from its observance ? All who choose, are permitted to sit down at the communion table in a Mode- rate church. No distinction is made between the really pious and the irreligious ; or, rather, all are assumed to be religious. But it is painful to advert to the fearful desecration of the most sacred of all Christian ordinances, which takes place on a sacramental occasion in a Moderate place of worship. No Christian can think of it without shuddering at the thought. Let us, therefore, turn away from the farther contemplation of so awful a theme. The occasion on which Joseph Jenkins was present in the church of Alves at the celebra- 94 A SCOTTISH SACRAMENT. tion of the Lord's Supper, was not the same as that which we have sought to describe in the earlier part of the chapter ; but he witnessed the same scenes, saw the same high-toned devo- tion on the part of both ministers and people, and heard the same class of divine truths incul- cated and enforced. Though not entering into the scenes and services of the occasion with the same feelings as if he had been a spiritually- minded man, he was very much struck with what he saw and heard. There was to him what he called a moral picturesqueness in the scenes he witnessed, which made an enduring impression on his mind. Though brought up in Scotland, and not many miles from the parish of Alves, he had sat under a Moderate ministry ; and knew no more what evangelical preaching or evangelical truth meant, than if he had never been in a Christian place of worship at all. Hence it was that, though admiring the moral beauties of what he witnessed, he had no perception whatever of its surpassing spiritual A SCOTTISH SACRAMENT. 95 loveliness. He was a striking illustration of the truth of the scriptural statement, that the spiritual man only can discern spiritual things. CHAPTER VI. Joseph quits his native place to return to London — Meets with the "Dr. Hornbook" of Burns, in Glasgow — Their conversation together — Curious and interesting particulars respecting Burns and Dr. Hornbook, which have not before been published. The leave of absence which Joseph had obtained was now within ten days of its expiry ; and, as he intended to return to London by land, with the view of seeing as much as possible of the country, he resolved on quitting Elgin on the following morning, in order that he might not be obliged to perform the journey too hurriedly. He started at eight o'clock, and reached Aber- deen at four in the afternoon. There he remained that night, and set out next morn- ing at fiVe o'clock for Glasgow, which city he THE "dr. hornbook OF BURNS. 97 reached in the evening, at eight o'clock. Curi- ously enough, he met that night at the house of a friend in which he put up, with an indi- vidual who occupies a prominent place in the pages of Burns, and who is, consequently, as fairly booked for immortality as the poet him- self. The individual to whom we refer is Dr. Hornbook, the hero of the popular poem, entitled " Death and Dr. Hornbook." Horn- book, as most of the readers of Burns are aware, is a fictitious name. The real name of the indi- vidual who is gibbeted in that piece of sarcastic writing, was John Wilson. To his Christian name, indeed. Burns furnishes a clue ; for, in one verse, he is called "Jock," which every Scotchman knows is synonymous with John. In the course of the evening Mr. Wilson — who, it may be here remarked, died only a few years ago — referred to the sarcastic poem, at the re- quest of the mutual friend of Joseph and him- self, under whose hospitable roof they were. Mr. Wilson, though never alluding in promis- VOL. III. F 98 THE "dr. hornbook of burns. cuous company, or when in conversation with any stranger, to the fact of his identity with the Dr. Hornbook of Burns, never betrayed a reluctance to refer to it, when in the society of any friend in whom he could repose confidence. The opportunity of hearing anything new on such a subject, was too good for Joseph to lose. He and Mr. Wilson entered into conversation together, and he found the latter quite un- reserved in his revelations on the point — readily and fully answering any questions which were put to him. Mr. Wilson mentioned the circumstances connected with his history prior to his acquaint- ance with Burns. These have never been cor- rectly given by those who have published editions of the poet's works, with explanatory notes. Indeed, it may be remarked, that nearly all about to be mentioned, is now published for the first time. Mr. Wilson was bred a weaver, in the west of Scotland, and worked at the busi- ness for several years. He was a most indus- THE "dr. hornbook" OF BURNS. 99 trious young man, rising up early and sitting up late, and emphatically eating the bread of carefulness, in order that he might save as much of his earnings as would enable him to pay for a course of education which would qualify him for becoming a Presbyterian minister — an object which was with him one of eager and unceasing ambition. With that view he did engage in the necessary preparatory studies ; but, having become the father of an illegitimate child, all his clerical prospects were blasted. He quitted Glasgow, where he had been studying, and retired to the parish of Tarbolton, in Ayr- shire, in which Burns at that time lived. Being a man of superior talents and extensive informa- tion, he and Burns soon became very intimate together. The poet, it ought to be mentioned, was at this time preparing the first edition of his works. He was, consequently, altogether unknown to general fame, though the more dis- cerning of those who saw his manuscript pro- ductions, discovered and admired the poetic 100 THE "dr. hornbook" OF BURNS. genius they displayed. None were more hearty in their admiration of the poems of Burns than Mr. Wilson; little imagining at the time that he was destined to be handed down to posterity in them, under the very unenviable circum- stances in which he is made to appear. Mr. Wilson having proceeded so far in his narrative, Joseph inquired whether he knew any cause which could have provoked the splenetic effusion. " Oh, yes," replied the other ; " the cause was this. He and I were both members of a Benefit Society, connected with the locality in which we were living. I was treasurer of the Society. He was always irregular in his periodi- cal payments, and on one particular occasion had fallen so far in arrears as, in terms of the rules and regulations, to be liable to have his name struck off the roll as a member. I at that" " I beg pardon for interrupting you ; but was his name struck off the roll ?" said Joseph. THE "dr. hornbook" OF BURNS. 101 " No, it was not," returned Mr. "Wilson. " I prevented that, by not letting the members generally know the full extent of his short- comings. Just at this particular time, he called on me one night, and asked the loan of a small sum of money. Knowing his careless habits — for he had already begun to give himself up to drink, though not a confirmed drunkard — I refused, adding, or, rather, assigning as the reason, ' You know, Robert, that you are already deeply in arrears to the Society, and that I am rendering myself liable for some of the payments you ought to have made, by con- cealing your deficiencies from the other mem- bers.' Stung by the refusal to lend him the money, in conjunction with the circumstance of reminding him of his arrears, he went home and wrote the piece in which I am held up to ridicule." " And was the efiusion published immediately on its being written ? " asked Joseph. " Oh, no ; and I must do him the justice to 102 THE "dr. hornbook" OF BURNS. say, notwithstanding the injury he has done me, that I do not believe he ever intended to publish it. He did not mean it to be known beyond the limits of the parish in which we lived. He, in the first instance, only showed it to several persons acquainted with us both. At their request, he allowed them to take copies. It thus got into a very general manuscript circula- tion in the parish. By and by it got into print, in the form of a handbill. Thence it found its way into the public journals, until it became universally known. As a farther proof that he did not mean it to be published, it was not in- serted in the first edition of his poems, which appeared some time after the poem had been written." " Did it excite a great sensation in the loca- lity in which you both lived ? "* inquired Joseph. "It did : it raised a laugh at my expense, as clever ridicule always will at anybody's expense against whom it is levelled. Even those who knew the thing to be wholly unfounded, joined THE " DR. HORNBOOK " OF BURNS. 103 in the general laugh. The result was, that I could scarcely look a friend in the face. I was obliged to leave that part of the country altogether. I returned with my wife and family — for by this time I was married and had seve- ral children — to Glasgow, where I have ever since remained." " And you think," remarked Joseph, " that your refusal to lend Burns the small sum of money, was the sole cause of his penning the bitter piece." " I am perfectly certain of it ; for, until that time, we had been two of the greatest friends in that part of the country ; and it was only a few months before, that I received a silver snuff-box from the Society to which I have referred, as an expression of the sense the members entertained of my services as treasurer, with a very hand- some poetical eulogium, written by Burns him- self. He had, besides, made me several small presents, some of which are still in my posses- sion." 104 THE " DR. HORNBOOK " OF BURNS. " Did you ever meet with him after the publication of the piece ?'* *^ I often accidentally met with him ; but we never had any intercourse together after he had written the poem." " Do you think he ever afterwards regretted writing it?" " I am sure of it ; for he repeatedly wrote to me, expressing the greatest concern that ever he had penned such a piece ; saying he felt he had injured me, and hoping that, as it was written on the impulse of the moment, and without any view to publication, I would overlook the circumstance, and be again on the same friendly footing with him as before. My answer was, that I did not wish to cherish any unkindly feelings towards him, but that I never could have any intercourse with one who had done me so great an injury." *' Were you," inquired Joseph, " acting as a medical man when Burns wrote the piece?" " I was not," replied Mr. Wilson, *' and THE " DR. hornbook" OF BURNS. 105 never had been in practice at all. I followed the vocation of a schoolmaster. He begins the poem with these words, ' Some books are lies frae end to end/ and so is all he says about me — with the single exception of the reference he makes to my acquaintance with ' Buchan's Domestic Medicine.' That work had, a short time before, made its appearance ; and I, feeling that I understood — as anybody may understand — the greatest part of its contents, merely kept a few of the more common kinds of medicine in my own house, for the benefit of my family, I never visited any patient in the pretended cha- racter of a professional man. I never prescribed out of my own house ; and was not even in the practice of vending medicines." Joseph was a good deal surprised at this ; for he, in common with his countrymen, thought that the Dr. Hornbook of Burns, must have been in the habit of prescribing for persons who were ill. The friend, of whose hospitality he and Mr. Wilson were partaking, perceiving an f2 106 THE " DR. hornbook" OF BURNS. air of incredulity on this point, about Joseph's manner, confirmed the statement of Mr. Wilson, as being the assertion of a fact which consisted with his own personal knowledge. It may be right here to repeat, so many incorrect accounts having been given of Mr. Wilson's history previously to the publication of " Death and Dr. Hornbook," by the editors of Burns — that the accuracy of this information may be relied on. Not less incorrect have the editors been in reference to the way in which he occupied his time on his return to Glasgow. They generally represent him as having engaged, in that city, in mercantile pursuits, and as having acquired a handsome independency. Neither statement is correct. He obtained an official situation in the parish of Glasgow in which he settled, which he retained until the time of his death. The salary was sufficient to enable him to support his family in respectability, but was not so great as to allow of his saving as much as would make him independent. On one point, THE " DR. hornbook" OF BURNS. 107 • all the editors of Bums are agreed — and on that point they are correct — namely, that Mr. Wilson was a most worthy man at the time that Burns lampooned him, and that he continued to main- tain, ever afterwards, an unblemished character. He was held in the highest esteem in the part of Glasgow in which he lived ; and received more than one testimonial of respect from his fellow- parishioners. The author of this work is in a condition to add, that not only was he an excel- lent member of society, but a most exemplary Christian. He was a decidedly pious man ; and there can be no doubt, that it was the circum- stance of his looking on all the events and inci- dents of time — all the trials and troubles of life, with the eye of a sincere Christian, that enabled him not only to forgive Burns for the great injury he had done him, but to maintain through life, notwithstanding the mortification he must have experienced, that cheerfulness of manner for which all who were acquainted with him knew that he was remarkable. 108 THE " DR. hornbook" OF BURNS. No right-minded person can learn these parti- culars respecting Mr. Wilson, without feeling the deepest pain, that so worthy a man should have had his whole existence embittered by the heartless ridicule heaped upon him by one with whom he had been on terms of the closest inti- macy, and to whom, instead of ever having done an injurious act, he had repeatedly performed offices of friendship. The disposition to indulge in satire, is one of the most reprehensible which a man can possess ; and, instead of being encou- raged by society, it ought to be denounced and put down. This disposition to expose his acquaintances to the jeers and contempt of the world, was a blemish in the character of Burns, which has never been sufficiently held up to pub- lic detestation. No intellectual superiority, no genius, however high may be its order, ought to make that author a favourite, who can gra- tuitously hold up his unoffending fellow-men to the scorn and ridicule of society. He who pens these remarks would not, for all the fame that THE " DR. hornbook" OF BURNS. 109 attaches to the name of Burns, have the reflec- tion of having needlessly wounded the feelings of his acquaintances. And many of those ac- quaintances whom Burns has so mercilessly ridiculed, were far worthier men than himself in all that constitutes moral greatness — which is, after all, the only true greatness of mortal beings. The evil of ridicule, when the poi- soned shaft is thrown by the hand of a popu- lar author, does not terminate with the life of him against whom it is directed. So far from being interred with his bones, its effects are felt for generations afterwards. Not more than four weeks have elapsed since the author of these volumes met with one of Mr. Wilson*s descendants; and he told him that, though he mentioned to him his relationship to the Dr. Hornbook of Burns, he studiedly concealed it from those with whom he usually associated ; adding, that he lived in a state of constant terror, lest the relationship should be dis- covered. 110 THE "dr. hornbook" OF BURNS. It would afford much gratification to the writer, if the Scotch papers were to transfer to their columns the leading facts he has com- municated respecting the early history and sub- sequent life of Mr. Wilson. It would be doing no more than an act of justice to the memory of a most excellent man ; and, it may with truth be added, an act of great kindness, if not, indeed, of humanity, to his surviving relations. CHAPTER VII. Joseph is again sent to the country to attend contested elec- tions — Publishes an account of his journey, by way of quizzing modern books of travels. The death of George the Fourth, shortly after the general election referred to in a previous chapter, having necessarily led to another dis- solution of Parliament, Joseph was again sent to the country to attend some of the contested elections. The district allotted him on this occa- sion was Hampshire. On his return, he wrote an account, in one of the magazines of the day, of his journey, by way of quiz on the then, as now, common custom of almost every person who leaves his own country for a few weeks, publishing his travels in the land or lands he has visited. The article appeared under 112 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. the title of " Modern Travelling ; or, Simon Stubbs' Tour to the Isle of Wight." As a specimen of a style of writing which Joseph had not before attempted, and as being, at the same time, a continuation of his actual history, we here subjoin it. This is the age of travelling : it is the age of something else ; it is the age of writing books of travels. No one now thinks of crossing the water to any part of the Continent, or, indeed, of leaving his home for a few days, without giving, as the phrase goes, " the results of his travels to the world." I have just returned from a tour to the Isle of Wight ; and, as books of travels are so much the order of the day, I can see no admissible reason why I should not also " give to the world the results " of my journey. If my present attempt should be favourably received, it may possibly induce me to lay before the public the particulars of a tour I lately performed from my residence in TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 113 Covent Garden, to the remote and very imper- fectly explored regions of Wapping. I flatter myself that the materials out of which I have constructed this article, are quite as important as those which constitute the marrow of most modern works of travel. I have only farther to observe, in the way of preface, that I shall not avail myself of the right now so generally claimed by travellers — the right, namely, of describing things they never saw, and narrating circumstances which never occurred. I shall limit myself to what I actually saw, and to what really did occur on my journey. I write under one advantage — the advantage of being unknown ; for nobody, J. believe, ever heard of the name of Simon Stubbs. In what follows I shall, consequently, be able to write with greater freedom generally, and with less reserve when speaking of myself, than if I were what is called a "known author." So much by way of pre- liminary observation : now, then, for the nar- rative of my journey. 114 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. I set out from London, on my tour, on the 28th of , in 182 — : and, there being no morning coach to be had — owing, I suppose, to the number of persons travelling in conse- quence of the elections which followed the then dissolution of Parliament — I was obliged to take the mail and to travel by night. I do not like traveling by night, but in this case, the urgency of my business would not admit of the delay of another day. I left London about eight o'clock. There were four of us inside. There was a gentleman of whom I could learn nothing on the way, beyond the fact that he was a Tory, and thought Mr. O'Connell a very athletic man. I assented to the latter propo- sition; and, touching the gentleman's expres- sion of his political faith, said, that though I chanced to be of a different way of thinking, yet that we had the happiness of being in a free country, where every man had an undoubted right to entertain what opinions he pleased. Another of my fellow-travellers was a young TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 115 sailor, who was about to join the Britannia, at Portsmouth, He possessed an ample flow of spirits, and seemed to have but one drawback to his perfect happiness ; that drawback was the absence of a hammock, in which he might have a nap on the way. The third inmate of the coach was a female, who at once confessed to being the landlady or proprietress of the " Hen and Chickens " public house, in the Mile End Road. She was on her way to some village in Hampshire, the name of which, as I neg- lected at the time to enter it in my note-book, I do not remember. However, the matter is of no great consequence. The object of her visit to the particular locality in Hampshire to which she was destined, was to get a renewal of her lease of the "Hen and Chickens" from her landlord, who, from some unaccountable whim, had taken it into his head to live in that part of the world. We had not proceeded many miles, when the sailor and the lady of the " Hen and Chickens " fell fast asleep ; and, as the Tory 116 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. gentleman was going only two stages, I was soon left to my own meditations. I take it that the female was a widow. Be this as it may, she was tolerably " fat and fair," and manifestly of the mature age of at least forty-five. So long as her eyes continued open, she proved a very pleasant companion. Balmy sleep, however, eventually overcame her ; and, all of a sudden, there was an entire cessation to her eloquence. When within about six miles from Petersfield, she awoke from her slumbers ; and, rubbing her eyes, yawned out — " Can you tell me, sir, what is the clock ? " " Ma'am," said I, " it is half-past two." " Dear me," said she, " is it so much as that ?" " It is, indeed." " Well, really ! " " You have been asleep, ma'am." " I thinks, sir," answered she, in self-re- proachful accents, as if ashamed of having taken a doze iri the coach in the presence of two per- sons of the opposite gender; "I thinks, sir, I TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 117 does nothing but sleeps." And so saying she recommenced her loquacity with redoubled energy. The scenery, I am told, was beautiful all the way ; but, as in accordance with what I stated in the outset, I make a point — whatever other travellers may do — of never describing anything I have not seen, I shall say nothing about the scenery between Brompton and Petersfield ; the darkness of the night having denied me the gratification of even a single glance at it. Having reached Petersfield, which is nearly fifty miles from London, I had occasion to re- main there for some time, and accordingly quitted the coach. On knocking at the door of the principal inn (the name of which, I am sorry to say, I have forgotten), Mary put her head, which was snugly enough encased in a nightcap, out of the window, and gazed at me — it was now day-break — as if I had been some wild animal. She uttered not a word ; but it was very easy to guess what was passing in her 118 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. mind. I have not a doubt she was saying to herself — "Who are you?" I did not conde- scend to tell her who I was — I am usually rather reserved on that point — but told her I wanted a bed for the remainder of the night, or morning, whichever she might please to call it. She came down-stairs and opened the door with such commendable expedition, that I could not refrain from rewarding her prompt attention with a piece of silver — no matter what the amount. It was now about three o'clock, and I slept till nine. I then rose, put on my clothes, and, having taken breakfast, proceeded on foot to the country seat of a Member of Parliament, on whom I had occasion to call. The distance of the hon. gentleman's residence was about six miles from Petersfield. I determined on walk- ing, because I thought I should thereby have a better opportunity than if I had taken a horse and gig, of seeing the country ; which to me, who had been cooped up in London for some years, almost suffocated with its everlasting TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 119 smoke, was, I can assure the reader, a very pleasant sight. The day was oppressively hot, and I had to maintain a constant warfare all the way, both in going and returning, with legions of troublesome insects of all species ; but then I was reconciled to these inconveniences, and should have been so, had their magnitude been ten times as great, in consideration of once more feasting my eyes on the green fields, and again breathing the fresh air. The sight of corn growing, and cows feeding, and ducks and drakes waddling about the farm-houses, was a perfect luxury to me ; and recalled to my mind, in a very forcible manner, the happy period of my juvenile life, when such scenes were matters of daily occurrence. When about three miles from Petersfield, I became doubtful which of two ways was the right one to C Lodge ; but seeing, at a short distance, a young man who was cutting grass with a scythe, I went up to him, and inquired which was the way to the place in question. 120 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. " That, zur," was the laconic answer, point- ing to one of the two ways. " Is that the only way, young man ?" said I. " No, zur, there be another." " Then, is the one to which you point me, the nearer of the two ? " " No, it ben't that neither," was the reply, which was given with infinite dryness of man- ner. As the clodpole (as Cobbett would have called him) spoke, he laid down his scythe, and, ad- vancing a few steps towards a stile, which stood betwixt him and me, put his two elbows on it, and looked quite comfortable. " Then, this is the nearer road to C Lodge," I observed, pointing to the other path- way. " It be, zur," growled the youthful Hodge. " I'm surprised, then, that you would have directed me by the farther road." "How should I know, zur?" rejoined the juvenile clodpole, in gruif tones, wiping the TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 121 perspiration off his brow with the sleeve of his smock-frock ; " how should I know vich road you would like best ? some likes the farthest, and some likes the nearest. There be Lunnun chaps as comes down this here way, vot likes to get a long valk, zur." This completely silenced me. I had no doubt that he set me down as a " Lunnun chap as had come down to that there place." I took the nearer road, and walked on. I had scarcely advanced fifty yards from the clodpole, when a butterfly came sailing slowly past me. So great a number of years had elapsed since I had seen one of these fluttering insects, that all my schoolboy feelings rushed unconsciously upon me ; and I was about — just as if the intervening quarter of a century of my existence had been blotted out — to engage in a vigorous pursuit of the harmless creature across the fields. However, a recollection of what I was, or, at least, ought to be, at my advanced age, compared with what I had been twenty-five VOL. III. G 122 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. years before, happily occurred to me, and I relinquished all idea of the chase. Before I reached the place of my destination, I had to climb a very steep hill. What be- tween the height of the hill and the oppressive heat of the weather, it will be readily believed that I stood in no small need of a few minutes to draw my breath. " I sat me down " on the top of the eminence; and, while resting my fatigued body, gratified my mind with the sight of the landscape before me. The prospect was extensive, and the richness of the scenery excelled anything I had ever seen. Had one of those personages arrogating to themselves the name of poets been present, he would, in at- tempting to describe the scene, have launched out, at once, into high-flown bombast about " wood and vale, hill and dale," and so forth. I will do nothing of the kind ; I never patron- ised this Mosaic or Brumagem sort of writing, and never will. Commend me to plain prose ; the plainer the better. I know that poets fancy TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. ]2 that no one can appreciate aright the beauties of nature but themselves. Allow me to tell them, that they are very much mistaken. The assumption is as unfounded as it is conceited and arrogant. I never wrote a line of poetry in my life ; what is more, I am innocent of ever having attempted it — and yet I will not yield in my admiration of the beauties of nature to any poet in Christendom. I duly reached C Lodge; and, having arranged the trifling matters which led me thither, returned to Petersfield. The only incident worthy of mention that occurred to me on my way back, was that, feeling thirsty, I asked a young woman, whom I saw standing at the door of a farm-house which I had to pass, whether she could let me have a little milk to drink. " Til bring you some presently, sir," was the answer ; and that moment she darted into the house, and brought me out a bumper, with incredible expedition. What a luxury the milk in the country is, compared with the chalk- 124 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. and-water which one gets in London ! I held out a piece of silver to the damsel, in return for her promptness, but she would not touch it. " Oh dear, no, sir; could not take anything for such a trifle as a drink of milk." Really, country people are very kind to strangers. One might live a century in London before one would meet with so much hospitality as to get even a drop of milk for nothing. " Nothing for nothing in my shop ; no, not so much as the paring of an old shoe," says the cobbler, in the play. " Nothing for nothing from us," echo the hard-hearted and selfish cockneys of Lon- don. I returned to Petersfield by two o'clock, and went at once to witness the nomination of can- didates for the representation of the burgh. The candidates were Mr. Hector, the old mem- ber, and Sir Wilham JoUiffe. Mr. Hector is a thorough-going Liberal ; Sir William is one of the best Tories extant. Nothing particular occurred at the nomination. The only incident TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 125 which amused me, was that of a clownish-look- ing person in the crowd, with a smock-frock, and a hat which was thoroughly ventilated by means of the vast number of holes which old age had made in it, interrupting Sir William repeatedly, while making his speech; and the hon. baronet, at last tired to death by these interruptions, saying with infinite good humour — " Brother electors, if you'll allow me, I'll stop my speech until that gentleman (pointing to the party interrupting him) is done with his speech ; and I'll then resume mine." I never was so pleased in my life with a Tory, as I was with Sir William. Toryism, I find, after all, is not incompatible with gentlemanly feelings and manners. At six o'clock I started, on the outside of the stage coach, for Portsmouth. The vehicle was quite full of passengers. Two boys, appa- rently about ten years of age, sat on the *' hind part," betwixt myself and another passenger. This passenger, I suspected in a moment, from 126 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. his physiognomy, to be a Radical ; and one, too, of the surly school. My theory was soon — to my own satisfaction, at least — completely esta- blished, by his pulling from his pocket a copy of the " London Democrat," which he devoured with an insatiable voracity of mental appetite ; never even raising his eyes from it, nor ex- changing a word with any fellow-passenger, for at least ten miles. By the time we had gone that distance, the boys, who had been very drowsy before, and quite as silent as the Radical himself, were suddenly seized, as if by a sort of Siamese sympathy, with a disposition to be merry ; and they both began to sing aloud the slang about " Jim Crow," which I was surprised to find had penetrated thus far into the pro- vinces. One of the little fellows, in the pleni- tude of the zeal with which he sang the song, and suiting the action to the word, very nearly " wheeled" himself off the coach. " Take care, my little man," said I, putting out my hand to prevent his falling oif ; " take care what you're TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 127 about, or you'll find it a much easier matter to * jump ' down than to * jump ' up again," " They are two very ill-behaved boys," grunted the Radical, raising his eyes from the columns of the " Democrat." " Oh, poor fellows," I remarked, interposing a word on behalf of the youths ; " boys are generally lively, and must have something to amuse them." " They are two of the worst-bred boys I ever saw," resumed the Radical, in still more churl- ish accents. " If they were mine, I would lash them till the skin was taken off their backs." ** Oh, poor little fellows, you don't mean that ! " " I do, indeed ; and sarve them right, too." " Sir," said I, " I'm "— " Sir," said he, interruptingly. " Will you allow me to finish my sentence, sir ? " said I. " Certainly, sir ; by all means, sir ; go on, sir ; finish your sentence, sir." 128 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. " What T was going to say, was, that I'm quite surprised to hear you. I have got child- ren, but I certainly should not like to act so harshly towards them." " Well, sir," said the Radical, looking quite savage ; " well, sir, I've got a few cherubs, too.'* " Then, I'm sure you don't mean to say that you would thrash your ' cherubs ' for so trifling an offence as being a little lively on the top of a coach." " I do mean to say it ; and what's more, sir, I would do it," answered the other, emphatic- ally. " I would teach them a little better manners^ sir." " You wouldn't thrash the * cherubs ' so se- verely as to take the skin off their backs ? " I observed inquiringly. " I would, sir ; I tell you I would , sir," said the universal- suffrage and annual-Parliament man, with growing emphasis. "And what's more," he added, " I would not only thrash them till I had taken the skin off their backs. TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 129 but I would thrash them till I had torn their skin into ribands." I sat aghast (for I was not in a standing position at the time) at the ferocity of disposition which the fellow betrayed. I felt a Mount Vesuvius of indignation burning within me. I wished, in my own mind — I hope I shall be forgiven if the wish, in the circumstances of the case, was uncharitable — I wished that the savage had been in the service of some despotic monarch, in order that his own hide might have been thoroughly flagellated. I paused for a moment, and then muttered out, in the best way my excited feelings would allow me, " Sir, you quite surprise me." " Can't help that, sir ; would do it," was the reply, given with a coolness, mingled with a harshness of manner I have never seen equalled. " Well, sir, all I can say, sir, is, that I by no means admire either your taste or feelings, sir." I dare say I used a good many more " sirs," in the course of our altercation, than strict pro- q2 130 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. priety of speech would warrant ; but my feel- ings were a great deal too much worked upon to be very measured, or very fastidious in the use of words. And I do not now regret that I spoke my mind plainly. " Sir," said the Rad., touching the collar of his shirt, which might, with great propriety, have been in the hands of the washerwoman ; " sir, I don't mind what you or any one else admires. I always thinks for myself; and what's more, sir, I always acts for myself, too." So saying, he resumed his perusal of the " London Democrat." I saw it was of no use to remonstrate with a person of this description ; so I said no more : but I could not help thinking with myself what an unpoetical monster — no, unpoetical is not the word — what a barbarous monster the fellow must be to talk of lashing the skin oif the backs of " cherubs ! " I don't know whether I'm right, but my notion always has been, that cherubs are a sort of infant angels. If so, the idea of flogging their backs until their skin was torn to TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 131 ribands, is not only an outrage on all good taste, but is absolutely atrocious, I spoke not another word to this English savage that night ; neither did he speak a word to me ; nor, I may add, to anybody else. He never afterwards lifted his eyes from the Radi- cal publication he was perusing. I do not at this moment remember, though I used to be well acquainted with the fact, what was the circumstance which occurred to Dr. Johnson, in his journey to the Hebrides, that induced him to form the resolution of publish- ing an account of his journey to that island ; but this I know, that the conversation which passed between this Radical and myself was the circumstance that determined me to publish my travels on this occasion. When the idea first occurred to me of giving my tour to the world, my only fear was, that the limited extent of the journey I proposed to myself would not afford me sufficient materials ; but when I recollected the affair of the American, who wrote five news- 132 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. paper columns, in the shape of a memoir of a child of his which died at the age of six weeks, my apprehensions on the subject vanished. 1 thought with myself, it surely would go hard with me, if I could not make a readable article out of the incidents consequent on a journey to the Isle of Wight, when a Yankee could manu- facture five newspaper columns in the form of an obituary of a child that died at the very ten- der age of a month and a half. When within about five miles of Portsmouth, the sun, which had before been hid from our view, appeared as in the very act of going to bed; that is to say, was just employed in "set- ting " himself. It appeared to me — and let me be understood as speaking here with all possible seriousness — it appeared to me as if he had been, by some unaccountable mistake, setting where he usually rises, which everybody knows is in the east. I was so convinced of this fact, that I mentioned the thing to my fellow-pas- sengers in that division of the coach where I TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 133 was located. Every one of them, always ex- cepting the Radical, who was too much busied with his favourite periodical to think of any- thing eJse ; every one of them took the sun's part, and said that he was setting in his usual quarter. For some time, in opposition to them all, I held to my own hypothesis ; but, on mature reflection, I was obliged to give way. When I thought more fully on the subject, I came to the conclusion, that it was much more likely that I was in error, than that the sun himself had made a mistake as to the proper place of his setting. I was the more fortified in this conviction, when I found that the regu- larity and propriety of procedure of the lumi- nary whose conduct I had thus ventured to arraign, was so promptly and decidedly vouched for by all present. I have since learned — and it is but an act of justice to the sun to make the admission fully and candidly — I have since learned, that the mistake was wholly on my part, and that it 134 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT, occurred to me in consequence of the zig-zag character of the road we travelled, which set at defiance all my astronomical or geographical notions (I know not in this case which is the right word) ; which astronomical or geographi- cal notions are not over accurate at any time. "When within about two miles of Portsmouth, I saw a woman standing at the door of a cot- tage, with her head wrapped in flannel. She was evidently labouring under the toothache. I deeply sympathized with her ; very probably for this, more than for any other reason, that I un- fortunately happened, at the moment, to be violently suffering under the same infliction myself. On reaching Portsmouth, I made it my first work to call at the committee-room of Mr. B , it being the evening preceding the elec- tion ; and, feeling a lively interest in the result of to-morrow's poll, I asked Mr. B how matters were proceeding. " Oh, just the usual way in such cases," answered he, rather hesi- TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 135 tatingly. The truth was, though I was not aware of it at the time, the symptoms looked very badly. The show of hands, which had a few hours before been taken, was in favour of the two Tory candidates, Sir George C and Lord F. This was not very favourable to Mr. B 's prospects next day. However, a show of hands is not always a correct index to popu- lar feeling. Mr. B and his Liberal col- league were returned, though by a small majority. On passing through one of the streets, 1 was struck at seeing, in a druggist's shop, what appeared to me a wooden representation of a Scotch Highlander, at least six feet in height, and of very athletic proportions — such as we often see at the doors of snuff-shops in London. 1 could not, for the life of me, conceive what earthly connexion a kilted Highlander could have with Epsom salts, senna leaves, and the other stuff called medicine, with which people are drugged to death ; and consequently, by all 136 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. the acknowledged rules of logic, I concluded that he had no business there. A thought has since then struck me — what if the proprietor of the shop, united with the calling of an apothe- cary, that of a miscellaneous dealer, which I know is often done in country towns. In that case, he may have been a vendor of snuff; and if so, the wooden Highlandman was quite appropriate. In proceeding along the streets, I saw a great many poor broken-down creatures who had just returned from the military service of a foreign prince. I was struck with what seemed to me their very diminutive appearance. I asked a person with whom I had some conversation, whether they were not shorter in stature than our soldiers generally are. " Not a bit of it," was the answer ; " they only appear so because, in the first place, the crowns of the bonnets they wear are close on their heads ; and in the second, they either have no shoes at all, or the soles are worn off." I saw the thing quite TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 137 clearly, and was only amazed and mortified at my own stupidity in not having seen it before. They were pitiable fragments of humanity. The sight of so many of them flung me into a train of moralization on the iniquities and miseries of war. I was surprised, on going down High Street towards the river, to see so many caravans and stalls of every kind. The thing was explained at once, when I found it was the day of the fair. I was struck with the amazing dispropor- tion which dolls and gingerbread bore to the other articles offered for sale. If the demand for dolls bear any relation to the supply, the people of Portsmouth must either be the most inveterate anti-Mai thusians in existence, or the dolls must be patronised by children of a very large growth. Having been advised by a friend to put up at the Quebec Hotel, as a place where I should find very comfortable accommodation, I inquired of a man I met in the street the way to the 138 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. Quebec. " Go straight on," said he, " for some time, then turn the corner, and then go right a-head." Straight on ! turn the corner ! right a-head ! What a direction to give to one who had never before put a foot in Portsmouth in his life ! The fellow might as well have spoken to me in the dialect of Timbuctoo. Happily, however, I soon met with another person, of a more rational cast. He gave me a direction which was intelligible, and I proceeded to within a dozen or two yards of the house — when, at a loss what course next to pursue, I put my head in at an open shop-door, and inquired where the Quebec Hotel was. " It be across the Square," answered the proprietor of a voice which bore a remarkable resemblance to that of Master Punch. The voice came from behind a red curtain, which was intended, I suppose, as a sort of protection to a writing- desk ; but I was not favoured with a glimpse of the speaker. Who he was matters not ; but he certainly was, judging from his manner of ex- TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 139 pressing himself, one of the most crusty cus- tomers it has been my fate to meet with. Had the Quebec Hotel been an opposition shop, the cause of his crossness would have been perfectly intelligible. A few paces more brought me to my desired quarters. I engaged a bed for the night, and then went out again with somewhat of an inten- tion to go to a dentist, to have the tooth, which was still paining me, extracted. But afterwards, I thought that as it was dark, and I had heard of the wrong tooth being sometimes drawn by mistake at night, I came to the conclusion that I had better defer the operation till next morn- ing. The person performing the operation may take the matter quite coolly, when he extracts the wrong grinder by mistake ; but it is no joke to the party who undergoes the ope- ration. I then went through the fair with the view of amusing myself for half-an-hour or so before going to bed. Passing a sort of booth, of 140 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. unusual dimensions, at the entrance to which were stationed a set of noisy fellows with all sorts of music, I asked what was to be seen. " Vauxhall, sir," was the answer from three or four voices. I determined on going in, to see a Portsmouth Vauxhall ; and was surprised that no charge was made for my admission. On getting into the interior, I saw nothing but just as many variegated lamps as were sufficient to make darkness visible, and twenty or thirty persons, consisting, of course, of both sexes, most of whom were dancing as energetically as they could. As I never trip the light fantastic toe, I immediately went out again. 1 had not proceeded forty yards, when I saw another large erection. '* What is this place?" I inquired of a person I saw standing at the door. " This is Wauxhall, sir." " What, two Vauxhalls in Portsmouth ! Well, I shall go in and see what sort of affair this is." I went in ; not, however, until I had paid the shilling demanded of me. Behold it was precisely the same as the TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 141 other Yauxhall ! 1 thought that to call such places Vauxhall was an outrage on the name. It appeared to me a very strange thing that I should not be charged anything for admission in the one case, and a shilling in the other. From Vauxhall the second, I proceeded im- mediately to the place where the caravans were stationed ; but, on my way, I took the precau- tion of buttoning my coat. A more ragamuffin, Old-Bailey-looking set of personages than the mob in front of the vehicles, I had never before seen ; and, as I had a few sovereigns in my pocket, for which I thought I might find some use before my return to London, it appeared to me better to take care of them myself, than allow any of the persons before me to relieve me of the charge. I had, too, a watch on my person, which, though by no means remarkable for the regularity of its goings, might possibly, I thought, go on this occasion. I was surprised to see so many persons without coats on their backs. Whether this was from the heat of the 142 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. weather, or from the fact of their having no coats to put on, I could not, and cannot now, determine. Very likely both causes had some- thing to do with the matter. Of all the things which amused me at the " show," was that of a Yorkshireman, who kept constantly bawling out an invitation to the spectators to go and see some wild beast, which constituted his exhibi- tion. He assured his audience, that they would never again see such a curiosity " durin' the whole of their natural born lives." As the price of admission was only one penny, I had a good mind to see this four-footed wonder ; but was afraid I might be too late for my bed, as the Quebec shuts up, and shuts out, too, at eleven o'clock precisely. I returned, therefore, to the Quebec, and went forthwith to bed, which was a very excellent one. I never slept on a more comfortable bed in my life. My room was No. 2, which looked on the sea, and was only two or three yards from it. I am by no means partial to salt water ; but, as twenty-five years TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 143 had elapsed since I had slept on a bed looking on the sea, I was not at all displeased, after so long an interval, to be similarly situated again. I rose next morning at eight o'clock. It is quite an era in my existence to get up at so early an hour. However, in this case, I could not help myself. Took nearly half-an-hour to shave myself, owing to the bluntness of my razor. Shaving is a very unpleasant operation at any time : it is particularly so when one's razor won't cut. Having taken breakfast, I inquired whether there was a coach to be had to Southampton. There was not; and, as I had pressing business there, I found there was no alternative but to hire a boat. I asked two boatmen what they would charge to row me there, which is distant from Portsmouth about twenty miles. " Twelve shillings," was the answer. I tried to reduce their charge down to half-a-guinea ; but it would not do. I was consequently obliged to let them have their own terms. I thought 144 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. twelve shillings an enormous sum to give for being conveyed to Southampton; but I was reconciled to the amount, from two considera- tions — first, the expenses did not come out of my own pocket, but out of the treasury of the morning paper ; and, secondly, there was the satisfaction of having a boat to myself, and two men my obedient servants for the time being. Immediately on entering the boat, I inquired whether there was any chance of being sea-sick. " Bless your soul, sir, none whatever ; the sea is as smooth as glass all the way." I have a great horror of sea-sickness. From the expe- rience I have had of this sensation, I never could admire the sea-sick scene in Don Juan. Byron never wrote anything so absurd. I will maintain, in opposition to the whole universe, that ardent love and regular sea-sickness never existed together. They are incompatible. Had Don Juan been thoroughly sea-sick, he could not have wasted a thought on Julia. He would not, had she been in the vessel at the TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 145 time, have moved a single step to save her, even had some one attempted to thrown her over- board. It is clear that Byron never knew ex- perimentally — and mere theory, in such cases, is worth nothing — what sea-sickness is ; or he would never have written such nonsense about his hero's aiFection for his mistress. He would never have represented his Don as exclaiming, amidst his severest qualms — " O Julia ! oh ! " But I will not pursue the subject farther. Byron has written so many excellent things, that we can well forgive him an occasional blun- der of this kind. Before we had proceeded many yards in the boat, I inquired whether there was any danger of being boat-wrecked on the way. " Not any," was the answer ; " our boat, sir, has stood many a tough breeze. Besides, we'll keep very close to the land all the way." The poor fellows, I suppose, took me for a Cockney. If they did, I have no doubt they were undeceived before we reached our destined port. VOL. III. H 146 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. When about two miles from Portsmouth, I saw fourteen or fifteen cows on the shore. I concluded at once the animals were at the sea- bathing. I was much surprised to see some of them drinking out of the sea. I thought in my own mind that they must be very thirsty before they could bring themselves to drink salt water : at any rate, I know I should. About two or three hundred yards farther on, I was delighted to hear a lark singing above our heads ; but my feeling of pleasure at the sweet voice of the charming bird, was mingled with regrets that it should have wasted its music on the waters. It was a great error of judgment on the part of the poor lark, to sing above the sea, I have no idea that the finny tribe could hear its dulcet warblings ; but, even if they could, I am convinced that they could not appreciate their beauty, for it is beyond all question that they are not musically inclined : they have not an atom of taste for harmony. Hitherto our progress had been but slow ; and TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 147 I felt a strong disposition to quarrel with the boatmen; but, on mature consideration, I was satisfied that the fault did not rest with them. They did their best ; the blame attached to the wind and tide, which were both against us. If, therefore, I had any legitimate ground of quar- rel, it was with the wind and tide ; but where would have been the use of quarrelling with them ? I was much surprised at seeing particular patches of the sea, twenty or thirty yards in circumference, as smooth as glass, while all around, the water was more or less rufiled. I could not, nor can I now, account for this. " There are more things " in the sea, as well as " in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in our philosophy." Speaking of the smoothness of particular parts of the sea, reminds me of the superior reflecting capabilities which some persons have ascribed to it. I have heard it said, that so great are the reflecting powers of the sea, when 148 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. in a perfectly calm state, that a person in a boat might shave himself quite as well by it as by the best mirror. I don't believe anything of the kind. The sea is but a very indifferent reflector at best. The idea of seeing one's face in it with sufiicient distinctness to shave, I look upon as a positive outrage on one's common sense. It is pure invention ; it is just as much a poetical fiction as that of the cock fighting with his own shadow seen in a gentleman's boot, which had been polished by Warren's superla- tive jet blacking. The fineness of the weather, coupled with the slow progress we made on our voyage, was highly favourable to meditation ; and I can say with truth, that I do not believe that, at any former period of my life, an equal number of ideas suggested themselves to my mind in the same space of time. The crop was really abund- ant: Falstaff"s harvest of blackberries could not have been half so ample. And what is more, if I can be considered an impartial TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 149 judge, I should say, my ideas were good. I deeply regretted I had not pen, ink, and paper with me. From a want of these, all went as fast as they came, and are consequently lost to the world. What a loss! Its full magnitude will never be estimated. When about half-way between Portsmouth and Southampton, I began to debate with my- self what would be the best form in which to give the results of this tour to the world. At one time I thought of a detached publication ; but, on mature consideration, I came to the wise resolve of making a magazine the medium of my communication with the public. A very excellent thing is a good magazine. This last sentence is not very good English ; but let it pass. I begin to think there is no use in being very particular in matters of style. I will not say much more about our voyage, though in justice to the scenery along the op- posite coast, I must say it was charming. After a tedious passage of five hours, we arrived all 150 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. safe at Southampton. The boatmen knew I had to return to Portsmouth that evening, and pressingly urged me to return with them. As an inducement, they offered to take me back for eight shillings ; but all their entreaties were in vain. A steamer, I knew, sailed from South- ampton for Portsmouth in the course of the afternoon ; and the little experience I had had on the sea, had taught me this important lesson, that steamers are more to be depended on as to time than open boats, and are to be decidedly preferred on other accounts. T had just time to transact my little business in Southampton before the sailing of the vessel. " The steam was just up " as I went on board: a few minutes more, and I should have been in time to be too late. The only thing that struck me as remarkable on board, was the circumstance of seeing three girls, whose ages varied from ten to fourteen, so very like each other, that, had they been of the same size, the mother that bore them (as an Irishman would TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 151 say) would not have been able to say which was which. We had not been fifteen minutes on our steam-boat voyage, when what the sailors would call a " tremendous squall " arose, with the not particularly pleasing accompaniment of a pro- digious shower of rain. I felt unspeakably thankful that 1 had resisted the solicitations of the boatmen to return to Portsmouth with them. To be tossed about on the wide ocean, at the mercy of the winds and waves, in an open boat, and to be drenched to the skin to the bargain, is by no means a particularly pleasant thing. We reached Portsmouth a little before seven o'clock. Evils, say the moralists, do not come singly. It's all very true ; they generally come in pluralities, if that be a proper term. During the half-hour I had been in Southampton, I had suffered much from my old enemy, the tooth- ache, and also from a keen appetite, without having time to take something with the view of -) 152 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. conciliating it. Here, then, were a pair of evils, under which I smarted, and to aggravate these while I found the voracity of my appetite in- creased on returning to the sea, I was horri- fied to find there was nothing to eat on board. Happily, however, after I had been some time on the sea, the toothache became less painful. I need not add, that my first work on reaching Portsmouth was, to pay proper respect to the claims made by my appetite. For reasons I need not mention, I ordered toast and coffee : I ate mountains of toast, and drank oceans of coffee. Being again assailed by my troublesome tooth, 1 would have given anything to have been within a reasonable distance of the dentist I patronise on such unpleasant occasions ; in which case I should have had it out at once. That wish, however, was, in the circumstances of the case, vain. T may here remark, that, after being an hour or so at sea, 1 always found my toothache less painful than when on land. TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 153 Can it be, that there is any virtue for this trou- blesome complaint in the sea air ? It would not matter much if there were, as the relief would, to most persons, be only temporary : people can't be always on the sea. I slept again in No. 2 of the Quebec Hotel, and rose next morning to have a sight of the town. It is a very irregular dull sort of place ; the streets seem to be all at sixes and sevens, and to straggle in every possible direction. The population is considerable. Having taken a hasty glance of Portsmouth, I set out on the same day on a second visit — but by land this time — to Southampton. In the suburbs of the former town, I was amused at seeing a man with his coat off and his hat on, sound asleep in a wheelbarrow on the side of the road. " Well, sure," as the Cockneys would say, of all beds in the world, to sleep in a wheelbarrow was, I thought to myself, the drollest. And on the side of a public road, too ! The man, it was clear, must be an Irishman. h2 154 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. So odd an idea would never have occurred to anybody else. And then the way in which the happy dog doubled himself up, so as to bring his body into the limited compass of the interior of a wheelbarrow, was a feat which deserved all praise. About fifty yards farther on, on the same side of the road, I saw a sign-board with a sort of portrait, pretending to represent Lord John Russell, on it. To me who am in the habit of seeing his lordship at least a hundred times every year, this affair appeared infinitely ludi- crous. All the world knows that Lord John is a very little man, of spare habit, just as if he only dined one day out of seven ; while here he was represented as a giant of the first class — a perfect mountain of mortality. And then there was the nose which the painter had given him. Such a nose ! I never saw a protuberance like it on the face of any human being. The only nose which bears any resemblance to the facial projection the artist had given Lord John, is TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 155 that of Lord Brougham ; and the resemblance even in that case is very slight. It is clear to me as daylight, that this portrait of Lord John was the work of some Tory artist, who had done the thing with the special intention of holding him up to ridicule. If ever his lordship should have occasion to pass in that direction, I would call his special attention to this caricature of his person. I am not sure whether an action of damages would not lie against the proprietor of the house, for this daily libel on the personal appearance of his lordship. In the course of this stage, I was surprised to see one of the four horses galloping all the way, while his three colleagues in the harness never exceeded the pace called a moderate trot. The thing appeared to me very strange. " Joe," said I, addressing myself to coachee, and tapping him on the shoulder ; " Joe, just tell me why that horse on the right side gallops all the way, while the others only trot." " Oh," said Joe, looking over his shoulder 156 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. towards me, who sat directly behind him, and speaking in accents of infinite good-nature ; " oh, he does it just to please himself." " Oh, very good," said I ; "if he's pleased, that's everything. He has an undoubted right, Joe, to please himself." It was clear, from the simple and unsophis- ticated way in which Jarvey gave me the above answer, that he thought it a most luminous and satisfactory one. I could not, for the life of me, hint that I was not satisfied with it. The scenery on the land side of Portsmouth was exceedingly beautiful ; and it grew more and more so, as we approached Southampton. The only thing that struck me as odd on the road to the latter place, was another sign, a swinging one, which occupied a prominent place in the pretty little village of Fareham. It is evidently intended to represent some quadruped, but what that quadruped is, it would puzzle any one but the artist to discover. I doubt, indeed, whether even he had any distinct animal in his mind's TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 157 eye, when he took the brush and palette in hand. Of this I am certain, that Cuvier never heard of such a beast. It is one of the best specimens of a monster I ever heard of. It has the horns of a ram, the face of a bull, a mane, or something like it, resembling that of a lion, while its feet are like — I really cannot tell what they are like. This work does not, unfor- tunately, give engravings, otherwise I would present my readers with a sketch of this most extraordinary animal : a description of it is out of the question. On reaching Southampton, I applied for a bed for a few nights at the Portland Hotel ; but it so happened, that all the beds were pre- engaged, in consequence of that being the time both of the races and the election. I got, how- ever, accommodation in the Crown Commercial Hotel ; but had occasion to be a good deal in another inn, which shall be nameless, because of a little incident I am about to mention. The coffee-room swarmed with flies to such an 158 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. extent, that one could hardly help thinking that all the flies in Southampton had congre- gated in that room ; and they were withal so troublesome, that I found it impossible to get on with my writing with any comfort to myself. I have somewhere — at least so I think — read of a warrior, who, being in the momentary expect- ation of an attack from the enemy, grasped his sword in the one hand, while he wrote his let- ters and despatches with the other. Comparing small things with great, I was pretty much in the same predicament. I had to keep off the troublesome insects with the one hand, while I guided my pen with the other. Often did I find myself engaged in an unequal conflict, and on repeated occasions I was obliged to leave my foes masters of the field, and seek for a cessa- tion from hostilities by going into the street. When, on one occasion, the war betwixt them and me, was raging at its height, the waiter, a country-looking, good-natured sort of person, chanced to drop into the room, with a towel TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 159 under his arm. An idea struck me. A towel is an excellent weapon wherewith to fight the flies : it is a capital thing for compelling them to fly out at the windows or doors, or at any opening that chances to be within their reach. " John," said I, " will you assist me ?" " To do what, sir ? " "I'll tell you presently." " You have got a formidable army here." " An army did you say, sir ? " observed John, pricking up his ears and looking quite con- founded, evidently associating something awful with the word. " Yes, and very undisciplined troops they are." " Troops, sir !" " Ay, and they are as offensive as they are numerous. They are always acting on the offensive." " Offensive troops, sir ! " " Yes ; I mean you have got a great number of flies in this room." " Oh, a great number of flies, is it, sir ? '' his 160 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. countenance brig'htening up, on discovering that there was no powder nor shot in the matter. *' Yes, sir," he added, with much self-com- placency ; " yes, sir, we have got a great deal too many on 'em." " I'm precisely of the same opinion, John ; but how shall we get rid of them ?" " That's the very thing I wants to know, sir. Mistress and me has been a-talking about it, but we don't know as how it should be done." " When do they go to bed, John ? Because, if they go in reasonable hours, I would sit up some time after them, and finish my letters in peace and quietness." " The flies go to bed, sir ! " said the waiter, looking as much amazed as if I had been I shall not say what. " Ay, when do they retire to rest ?" " When are they quiet, you mean, sir." " Yes, yes, quiet will do ; when are they quiet?" TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. ^61 *' Oh, they're not so troublesome, sir, after the gas is lighted." " And when do they set to work again in the morning? Early risers, I suppose, John — eh?" "Vy," said John, with a smile of infinite good-nature, at my use of the phrase early risers as applied to flies ; " vy, sir, at half-past five in the morning." " Ah, John, they rise too early for me. I could not think of getting up before that hour to finish my letters. We must take some means or other of getting them expelled." " Get them out, you mean, sir." " Yes, certainly ; clear the house of them, in some way or other." *' Oh, we'll soon do that, sir ; but the evil of it is, they'll soon find their way in again." "Well, John, it will be some relief to get rid of them for a short time. Will you assist me in turning them out ? " " Oh, most certainly, sir ;" and v/ith that he set to work, and chased them out, by means of 162 TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. his towel, in thousands at a time. In a few minutes, almost every one of them had fled. Shortly after, however, as the waiter said, they began to come in again on the sly ; but, happily, they did not muster so strong as before, the whole of that evening ; and, having finished my business, I left Southampton — a very excellent town, population, 22,000 — on the following morning, for the Isle of Wight. The Isle of Wight would never forgive me, if I did not say it is a delightful place ; but I can- not just now describe the beauties of its scenery, nor give a record of my adventures in it. I returned to London in ten days, all well. Travelling, I find, is a very expensive thing. I was, however, in this case, reconciled to the calamity of spending money, from the consider- ation before referred to — namely, that my expenses did not come out of my own pocket. It makes, as Mr. O'Connell would say, " a mighty difference " in the comparative pleasure of a journey when one's expenses are paid by TOUR TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. 163 others, instead of by himself. I was quite deh'ghted to get back to London. London is the place after all. I have often wondered, while inditing this journal of my eventful tour to the Isle of Wight, whether any of my readers will say that Simon Stubbs is an entertaining fellow. I don't see why they shouldn't. If I thought such was their opinion, I would soon find some pretext or other for travelling again, for their special gratification. CHAPTER VITI. Joseph loses his engagement — His growing pecuniary em- barrassments — Remarks on periodical and general litera- ture, considered as a profession — Joseph's disappointments. Joseph had been only three weeks returned from his election journey, when a dispute oc- curred between him and the editor of the paper with which lie was connected, which led to the loss of his engagement. The words which passed between him and Mr. Leader, had their origin in liis non-attention to certain instructions given him by the other. To those instructions Joseph had neglected to attend, in consequence of hav- ing accidentally met with a dissolute acquaint- ance, with whom he adjourned to a tavern, where he spent the evening, altogether for- getting his professional duties. He had, on JOSEPH LOSES HIS ENGAGEMENT. 165 several previous occasions, been guilty of the same misconduct, and had been duly w^arned that, if a repetition of it should occur, the result would be the loss of his engagement. He dis- regarded the warning ; he repeated the offence, and was visited with the threatened punish- ment. What vras now to be done ? He had not only — as will be understood from what was stated at some length in the second volume — not saved anything, but had run himself deeply into debt. To obtain another such engagement as he had lost, on any of the other daily jour- nals, was, he knew, a matter of great difficulty at any time ; and, at the particular time at which he lost his engagement, it was especially so, in consequence of the number of candidates then applying for such engagements. His only re- source, therefore, lay in literary exertion. But to what department of literature ought he to turn his attention ? To attempt to write a book was out of the question ; for, though he might have 166 JOSEPH LOSES HIS ENGAGEMENT. possessed the requisite talent for the production of a work on either of several subjects, yet his mind was so harassed and unsettled, as to unfit him for the close and continuous application of his mental powers to the preparation of such a work. In magazine contributions, therefore, his only hope rested. To the precariousness or uncertainty of this source of dependence for one's support, the author has had occasion, in some of his former works, to refer. The sub- ject is one, however, of so much importance, and so many excellent young men have been ruined for life by trusting to their contributions to the periodical literature of the day, for their support, as to justify some farther observations on it. It is a common error among young and ardent aspirants after literary distinction, to flatter themselves that, if they have once succeeded in finding admission into the pages of two or three of the more popular periodicals, the insertion of their future contributions will LITERATURE AS A PROFESSION. 167 follow as a matter of course ; and tliat, con- sequently, they may consider themselves as in a condition to earn a permanent living by their magazine labours. They reason, in other words, that, if they have, for the last three, four, five, or six months, averaged a certain monthly sum, say twenty guineas, by their contributions to the periodical literature of the day, they are justified in concluding that, with the same amount of industry and the same exercise of talent on their own part, they will average the same sum for a long series of years to come. No conclusion could be more fallacious — no conviction more unfounded. Every day's ex- perience is at variance with it. The party may write as well, even better than ever ; and he may be singularly happy in the choice of his subjects ; and yet, from the unaccountable capriciousness of the proprietors or editors, he may, without any previous notice, be entirely shut out for ever afterwards from their pages. Innumerable instances of this have come under 168 LITERATURE AS A PROFESSION. . the personal obseivation of the writer ; and all acquainted with our current periodical litera- ture will be able to refer, in their own minds, to numerous similar cases. Only about three months have elapsed since it was authoritatively stated, in noticing the death of the most exten- sive and most talented magazine contributor of his day, that though, a few years ago, he had been making as much as £1200 per annum by his chance contributions to newspapers and periodicals, he had latterly not made £100 a-year ; while for months in succession, he had not earned a single shilling. And when a clever contributor to periodicals finds articles which he knows to be equal to anything he has ever written, rejected, the circumstance has such a disheartening effect on his mind, that he is not afterwards able to write so well as formerly ; consequently, his contributions are rejected for mere want of merit, even where there is no other cause of rejection. So that, when onde a magazine writer is fairly down, LITERATURE AS A PROFESSION. 169 he very rarely, if ever, recovers himself again. As a literary man, he is lost for ever. But we ought not to confine our observa- tions to magazine w^riting. They ought to receive a more extended application. It may be doing an act of essential service to thousands of gifted, but far too sanguine young men, just entering on the perilous career of authorship, to make some remarks respecting the present position of literature in general, viev^^ed as a profession. On this point the writer has touched in a former work. A few more facts, however, may be here adduced. It is an established fact, that not one in five hundred of those who have devoted them- selves to professional authorship, are able, by the labours of their pen, to earn a permanent livelihood. It has been ascertained that, in London alone, the number of persons who have adopted authorship as a profession, and who have no other means of subsistence, is from 3000 to 4000. To these are to be added the VOL. III. I 170 LITERATURE AS A PROFESSION. thousands who have commenced a literary career with the view of following it as a profession, but whose total failure, or very indifferent suc- cess, has induced them to relinquish it, and apply themselves to other pursuits. Now, assuming that the entire number of persons who are either living as they best can, by the produce of their pen, or who, having within the last twenty years found that existence by its means was impracticable, and have therefore abjured literature — is about 10,000, it will be found very difficult to name twenty individuals, or one out of every five hundred, who have been able to convert their literary talents into the means of procuring for themselves a perma- nent and ample living. It is true, that authors now and then — more perhaps by accident than anything else — enjoy a degree of popularity which, while it lasts, is very productive in a pecuniary point of view ; but then how long, in the majority of such cases, does such popularity last ? " Ay, there's the rub ! " Evanescent, Joseph's disappointments. 171 indeed, with very few exceptions, is, to use the nomenclature of political economists, a produc- tive literary reputation. The reputation, con- sidered simply as an abstraction, is often enduring ; but it is inoperative in its pecuniary relations. There are scores of popular authors, whom it were easy, were it not invidious, to name, who cannot, at this moment, obtain a single sixpence for anything they write. Many of them are suffering all the horrors of want ; and hundreds of others, possessing superior talents, though never having risen to eminence, are in the same deplorable condition. But to return to our hero. Joseph had the mortification, as well as pecuniary disappoint- ment, of finding that, on an average, notwith- standing his former success, not more than one out of every four of the articles he offered to the current magazines was accepted. None but a literary man, of sensitive mind, can have any idea of the bitter disappointment experi- enced by literary men when their contributions 172 Joseph's disappointments. are rejected. Every such rejection goes like a dagger to their hearts. The editor may return the manuscript in as polite terms as the English language can supply ; he may assure the writer that the rejection of his article is only the result of the pre-engagement of his pages by stated contributors ; or he " may regret exceedingly" that he cannot " avail himself" of his would-be "correspondent's talents:" still, through all this politeness, the rejected contributor clearly perceives, that the true reason, where there is no caprice on the part of the editor, of his exclusion from the pages of the particular periodical is, that his article is not deemed worthy of admission. The natural consequence of all this is (as has already been remarked), that the poor literary man becomes disheartened, writes under great depression of spirits, and, as a necessary result, writes much worse. To the justice of these observations, hundreds of lite- rary men who may read this work, will yield a ready response. They can speak from experi- MISERY OF Joseph's condition. 173 ence. From their sad experience, they can bear testimony to the truth of what we have said. Such was the condition of Joseph. To get only one article inserted in the periodicals of the day, while three were rejected, was very discouraging to him. He saw that the effect of the disappointment was, to make him write much worse. Meanwhile his pecuniary neces- sities were becoming greater and greater every hour. His creditors were daily growing more and more clamorous, and he himself becoming more and more desponding. He was a most miserable man. To the supports of religion he was a total stranger ; he had never felt its power. His prospects were as gloomy as can be conceived. At times, indeed, the question whether he ought not to put an end to his earthly miseries by terminating his earthly existence, suggested itself to him. He now began to become sensible of the folly of his past career ; but, like thousands of other thoughtless persons, he did not make the dis- 174 MISERY OF Joseph's condition. covery until it was too late. The warnings which had been given him by Mr. Lovegood, though not only disregarded, but forgotten as soon as they had passed the lips of the worthy man, now recurred with a terrible power to his mind. Mr. Lovegood's prediction that, if he persisted in the irreligious course he was pur- suing when the remonstrance was addressed to him, the result would not only be most injuri- ous to his immortal interests, but the loss of his newspaper engagements — that prediction was brought to his recollection by its fulfilment in his painful experience. Miserable, indeed, was his situation. He knew not what to do ; he knew not in what way to better his circum- stances. He was, in the language of the Psalmist, at his wit's end. And, to complete his wretchedness, he had to reproach himself with being the author of it all. He was miserable from morning to night. And even when night came — though a season in which the most wretched, when their wretchedness is not the MISERY OF Joseph's condition. 175 result of a guilty conscience, enjoy rest and peace — even when night came, there came with it no exemption from his misery. Either he did not sleep at all, but lay awake mourning over and cursing his own folly ; or, if he did close his eyes, it was only a broken repose he experienced — a repose disturbed by the most terrible dreams. He might have written of himself with a terrible truth — " Of all men the most miserable." CHAPTER IX. The extremities to which Joseph is reduced-^ Visits a pawn- broker's shop to borrow money — His feelings. He must be a very inattentive observer of what is daily passing around him, who has not repeatedly remarked with what rapidity persons are in the habit of descending in the social scale, after they have reached a certain point in the downward road. Every day now added to the wretchedness of Joseph's condition. He was furnished, in his own painful experience, with an illustration of the common adage, that misfortunes do not come singly. He had hitherto been so far successful as to get an occasional article into a newspaper or magazine, for which he received remuneration according Joseph's extremities. 177 to the scale by which the journals into whose columns or pages his contributions found their way, were in the habit of paying ; but this occurred so seldom, and the articles were so short, and the rate of remuneration so low, that all the money he derived from this source, was barely sufficient to procure him one good meal a-day. And even this source of income, if his scanty receipts deserved the name, soon dried up, and he was sometimes a month without earning a sixpence. In what way, it will be asked, did he manage to subsist at all ? By means to which all in his situation are obliged to resort. He saw no other alternative, unless he was prepared to commit a sort of passive suicide, than that of raising, from time to time, a few shillings on such articles as he had in his possession. Hitherto, amidst all the vicissitudes of his life, he had never been in a pawnbroker's shop. That was a place to which he had not dreamed of having recourse, even at times when he had been most perseveringly i2 178 Joseph's extremities. and clamorously dunned for mere trifling debts. All he knew of pawnbrokers' shops, was the scanty knowledge to be derived from pausing for a moment to inspect some curious article which caught his eye in the window. To pro- ceed to a pawnbroker's shop, therefore, was a course which he was most reluctant to adopt. He shrunk from the idea, not only because it would lower himself in his own estimation, but because he was utterly Ignorant of the way in which the sort of business done in these places, . is transacted. For days after the Idea had first suggested itself to him, did he combat with it ; preferring rather to submit each day to the privation of a meal, than to have recourse to a mode of administer- ing to his necessities with which he associated so much that was humiliating. Necessity, how- ever, has no law. His poverty, or, rather, his extreme destitution, obtained the mastery over his feelings. He came to the conclusion, that to the pawnbroker he would, because he viust^ Joseph's extremities. 179 go. But what article should he pawn ? That was a perplexing question. He had several articles of clothing in good condition ; for, as may have been inferred from previous parts of the work, he had been in the habit of keeping a good supply of apparel of the best quality. Should he pawn some of his books, or a portion of his clothing ? The choice lay between the two ; for, though he had trinkets of some value which had belonged to his mother, the idea of de- positing them as security for the loan of a small sum never entered his mind. Should he pawn his books ? These, certainly, not being neces- saries of life, could have been parted with much more conveniently than any portion of his wardrobe. But then they were the gifts of two friends, both of whom were dead. When we mention that one of those friends was Mr. Love- good, the reader will at once infer what the character of the works, so far as they were his gifts, was. Joseph could not think of parting with them. They had, it is true, lain in his 180 Joseph's extremities. trunk unread and unregarded. That was to be regretted. Had they been read, and their advice adopted, he would not have been reduced to the straits which made the depositing of them a matter of debate in his own mind. But though the books had been wholly neglected — so much so, indeed, as that Joseph could scarcely tell what their nature was — still, amidst all his reverses and all his wretchedness, there remained in his bosom such a profound respect for the memory of one who had acted so generous and friendly a part to him, as made him resolve rather to part with his apparel than with them. It was substantially the same with the books which were the gifts of his other deceased friend. Though, if Joseph had been driven by a neces- sity to be no longer resisted, to part wdth the books which he had received from either of his two departed friends, he would have retained those which were the gifts of Mr. Lovegood, in preference to those which his other friend had given him ; yet as the choice now lay between VISITS A pawnbroker's SHOP. 181 the books and his clothing, he determined on parting with such portions of the latter as he could, in the meantime, most conveniently spare. To the pawnbroker's he accordingly went with a green surtout, which had not been much worn. To quit his lodgings on this errand was to him one of the most painful trials his feelings had ever experienced. He chose the evening for the purpose, the evenings being at the then season of the year dark. He wrapped up the coat in an old newspaper, and left his lodgings with the parcel under his arm, as confused in appearance as if he had been committing felony — as if the article had not belonged to himself. Had a policeman seen him as he passed along the streets, his manner could not have failed to attract his attention, and awaken his suspicions as to the mode by which Joseph had come into the possession of the bundle beneath his arm. He at length reached the pawnbroker's — com- monly called " My Uncle's " — shop, and peeped 182 VISITS A pawnbroker's shop. into it, to see if there were any one inside, before he would venture to cross the threshold. There was one person, a woman, standing beside the counter, declaiming most eloquently and ener- getically in praise of the excellent qualities of a gown which she was pawning, hoping thereby to prevail on " My Uncle " to raise a little higher his estimate of the value of the commodity she was submitting to his inspection. Joseph shrunk back : he could not endure the idea of entering the shop while another was in it, though that other was a woman evidently in the humbler ranks of life, and wholly unknown to him — as he was to her. He fancied that she, stranger though she was to him, would at once discover the true cause of his being there. He imagined that nobody could see him without knowing the exact nature of the peculiar pres- sure which had driven him to the desperate expedient of seeking the aid of the pawnbroker. It is singular how all persons situated as Joseph was, take it for granted that, if they have VISITS A pawnbroker's SHOP. 183 recourse to any step which denotes poverty, everybody with whom they come in contact will at once discover, as if by intuition, the real state of their private affairs, even in their minutest details. Joseph was as yet an utter ignoramus in all such matters. The woman whom he saw vehemently maintaining that her gown was worth double the price which " My Uncle " put upon it, would not have bestowed a thought on him ; very probably would not have even passed a look with him, nor in- terrupted for a moment the strains of elo- quence she was addressing to the money-lender, in favour of her gown. The pawnbroker — as pawnbrokers always in such cases are — was deaf to all her entreaties to obtain a higher estimate of the value of the article which she was sub- mitting to him ; and she was obliged to bring down her notions to his standard of value. He disdainfully flung down on the counter the three shillings at which he estimated the value of the article, and she, taking them up, left the shop. 184 VISITS A pawnbroker's shop. grumbling at the smallness of the sum " My Uncle" had advanced on her " dress ;" but consol- ing herself with the thought, that she would soon redeem it, and consequently not allow it to be thrown away in that manner. Whether she ever did redeem it, we cannot tell ; but the pre- sumption lies the other way. The woman having quitted the pawnbroker's shop, Joseph looked timidly up and down the street to see that nobod3'^ was watching his motions, or would be cognizant of his entrance into the place. Had he been about to enter for the purpose of committing felony, he could not have appeared more confused or timid. The coast was clear, and in he went. He felt an indescribable tremor come over him as he crossed the threshold. His heart almost failed him ; he felt as if he had entered a forbidden place — as if he had been committing a great crime in being there. He was scarcely cogni- zant of anything he saw in the shop, although objects of the most miscellaneous kind were VISITS A pawnbroker's SHOP. 185 everywhere exhibited. At last he muttered out a sentence or two to the effect, that he wished to "get some money on this" — meaning the coat which he laid on the counter. He was unacquainted with the usual phraseology in such cases — " I want to borrow," or " get an advance " of so much money " on this surtout." The pawnbroker contemptuously took up the parcel, unloosed the paper in which it was wrapped up, and, after having examined it very carefully, inquired in that cavalier tone and with that repulsive manner for which pawnbro- kers are proverbial, " What do you want for it ? ^' Joseph was taken aback by the question. He had not thought of fixing a sum. After a mo- ment's hesitation, he said, " Whatever you think it worth, sir." " I can only advance eighteen shillings on it," said " My Uncle," eyeing Joseph, as if he had been deliberating in his own mind whether or not, from his confused manner, he ought not to conclude that the article had been stolen, and 186 VISITS A pawnbroker's shop. that he should call a policeman to take Joseph into custody. After a moment's pause, as if he had decided that it was necessity, and not crime, that had brought Joseph to his premises, the money-lender repeated that eighteen shillings was all he could advance on it. " Very well," said Joseph, tremulously ; " I'll take it, sir." " My Uncle " laid down the eighteen shil- lings on the counter, and Joseph, with shaking hand, took them up. He hastily put the money into his pocket, and was in the act of hurriedly leaving the shop, when the pawnbroker bawled out — " Stop ; you have not got your ticket." Joseph turned back just as he had reached the door. He had heard of pawnbrokers' dupli- cates ; but had forgotten at the moment, or, rather, was ignorant of the fact, that it was a necessary part of the transaction between " My Uncle " and his customers, that the latter should receive duplicates. The idea of redeeming the coat had never entered his mind. The circum- VISITS A pawnbroker's SHOP. 187 stance of Joseph being in so great a hurry to make his exit from the premises, re-awakened, in the pawnbrokers mind, the suspicion that he had come by the pledged article by dishonest means. Again he scrutinized him closely, but, after a few moments' hesitation, he inclined to the opinion at which after his first fit of doubt- ing he had arrived — namely, that it was poverty, and not guilt, that had put Joseph in his power. He accordingly handed him the duplicate, and our hero departed. The eighteen shillings, small as the sum was, proved of great service to Joseph. It is curious to reflect how far a very small amount of money can be made to go, when the pressure of want compels the party to limit his expenditure to the plainer necessaries of life. Many a time had Joseph spent a larger sum than eighteen shillings at a single sitting in a tavern, with his former boon companions. He now felt — and the reflection was most painful — that to his ex- travagance and recklessness in such cases was ]88 VISITS A pawnbroker's shop. to be ascribed his present destitution. Having, for severa months, been without anything worthy the name of a dinner, and rarely, during that period, knowing what it was to enjoy an ample meal of any kind, he now resolved that the eighteen shillings should be expended on the most absolute necessaries, and on them alone. How rigidly and resolutely he acted up to this determination will be inferred from the fact, that he made the eighteen shillings supply him with provisions for four weeks, being at the average rate of ninepence or tenpence a-day. CHAPTER X. Makes great efforts, but without success, to obtain literary employment — Hollowness of literary friendship — Public ingratitude — A dying scene — Departed friends. During the four weeks referred to at the close of the preceding chapter, Joseph had constantly occupied himself in looking out for some sort or other of literary employment. Every morning he read the various journals, in the hope that he might see something that might suit him. He, however, looked in vain. He did, indeed, see several notices in the advertising depart- ment of the papers, which he thought might possibly lead to something ; but, on farther inquiry, he found they were all delusion. Advertisements under the attractive head, " Literary Assistance Wanted," he found to 190 Joseph's unsuccessful efforts. mean, that some one who had engaged in an unfortunate speculation in newspaper or literary property, wanted a victim — the " assistant" being expected to advance capital to prop up the sinking concern, and to receive a share of the profits — when there should be any — for his capital and literary labours. It need not be mentioned, that as Joseph was not the party for such persons, so neither were they for him. If he occasionally met with an advertisement, stating that an editor or reporter was wanted for a provincial paper, and ascertained that the concern was a hond fide one, he found the com- petitors for the prize — for such, in his altered circumstances, he would have considered it — were so numerous, that his chance would only be in the proportion of a hundred to one. The result of all the trouble he took, was only an aggravation of his misery. The advertisements which he read and answered, only excited expect- ations which were sure to be disappointed. And none but those who have been similarly circum- LITERARY FRIENDSHIPS. 191 stanced — none but those who have been doomed to experience a succession of blasted hopes, can have any idea of the v^retchedness of the man whose mind has been thus exercised. The result of the repeated frustration of Joseph's hopes, in connexion with literary pur- suits, was to make him deeply regret ever having chosen literature as a profession or as a means of living. The remembrance of his past repu- tation as a reviewer in a weekly journal of high literary character, and as a contributor to seve- ral of the most popular periodicals of the day, only now gave additional pungency to the mortification which he felt at being excluded from the columns and the pages of all. He now saw the emptiness of literary fame ; and he saw, at the same time, the hoUowness of that friend- ship which is so often supposed to subsist between literary men. Hundreds whom Joseph had formerly obliged by lauding their works, and who had been forward to fawn upon him, and speak of him as one whose friendship they prized 192 LITERARY FRIENDSHIP. above that of any man living, had not only no assistance to give him in this the hour of his need, by tendering him, in a delicate way, the temporary loan of a small sum ; but they were not sufficiently clear-sighted to recognise bim as he passed them in the streets. It was truly wonderful to witness the change for the worse which their eyes had undergone in the short space of three or four months. The result of all this was, to inspire him with a disgust both for literature and literary men. He made up his mind to abjure the former ; and as for ending his intimacy with the latter, that would have been a superfluous act, seeing that the thing had already been done to his hand — that is to say, all his literary acquaintances had cut him. There was only one individual among all his recent literary acquaintances, in reference to whom he would have made an exception — that is to say, whose friendship he reckoned to be sincere, and with whom he would, therefore. AN EXCELLENT CHARACTER. 19;3 have wished to continue on intimate and friendly terms. He was a member of one of the learned professions, and, for many 3^ears, held an influ- ential situation connected with the daily press. Many of our readers will, no doubt, readily perceive to whom our observations point, even though, instead of mentioning his real name, we call him by that of Robert Thomson. Mr. Thomson, a middle-aged man, was not only a person of remarkably refined literary taste, but one whose heart was full to over- flowing of the milk of human kindness. He looked on the entire human race as equally the offspring of one great and gracious Parent. In every man, therefore, he recognised a brother. He was conscious that he possessed superior talents, and, as Providence had placed him in a sphere of great influence, he never for one moment forgot that a corresponding responsi- bility, in reference to the use he made of his influence, rested upon him. His great talents were steadily consecrated to the sacred cause of VOL. III. K 194 AN EXCELLENT CHARACTER. human happiness. He laboured day and night, in season and out of season, to enlighten and humanize the minds of his fellow-men — not merely through means of the press, but even when occupied in his professional pursuits. His was a pure and ardent philanthropy. It was unsullied by any corrupt motive or purpose, and it burned with a steady and brilliant flame. The very purity and ardour, indeed, of his philan- thropy, operated against his professional success, and prevented his rising to that elevated distinc- tion which his splendid talents, had they been accompanied with more accommodating princi- ples, could not have failed to achieve for him. His were principles of sturdy integrity : he would not yield an iota to what others, and some of them men of worth, too, would have called a justifiable expediency. The rule of his life was that of the abstract principle of right. He set out on his public career with a determination to adhere uniformly to the principle of doing what was right, without reference to the consequences. AN EXCELLENT CHARACTER. 195 This was a principle of action which, as it is practised but by few, was not understood by the mass of mankind. He refused to become a party man in the world of politics, though the most tempting inducements, so far as pecuniary consi- derations were concerned, were held out to him. He also rejected all the offers made to him to compromise his principles, by promoting the purposes of particular persons on isolated points of minor importance. The result of all this was, that he was neglected by both the great parties in the State. This will not excite surprise in the mind of any one who has had opportunities of getting behind the curtain, and, consequently, of seeing the heartless hollow- ness of all political factions. What was most surprising and mortifying, was the fact, that even the public, in whose service he was spend- ing and being spent, did not seem to have any adequate sense of the claims he had on its homage and heartfelt gratitude. By the mass of his fellow-men, for whose well-being, moral and 196 AN EXCELLENT CHARACTER. social, he laboured with a consuming zeal, and whose nature he sought to purify and elevate — even by them was he suffered to live and labour unnoticed and unthought of. And yet, dark as is the aspect in which it exhibits our common nature, why should we wonder at the ingratitude of mankind towards Mr. Thomson? Is not the page of history crowded with instances of a similar kind? To what age or. country shall we turn, in which we shall not find that its greatest and best men have met with similar treatment ? Neglect and ingratitude are, indeed, proverbially the portion of those who have only lived to labour, from the noblest and most disinterested motives, for the good of their fellow-men. Stung with the neglect and ingra- titude of mankind, thousands have died of a broken heart in the prime of life and in the midst of their usefulness ; and those who have survived the painful reflection, have only done so because they were sustained by the approval of MR. Thomson's illness. 197 their own consciences, and the knowledge that their services to their fellow-men were pleasing in the sight of Heaven, and would be acknow- ledged and rewarded in the world to come. Joseph, as before remarked, would have been but too happy to continue his intimacy with Mr. Thomson, though resolved to have no more intercourse with those other acquaintances con- nected with the press, with whom he had formerly so frequently associated. That, how- ever, could no longer be. Mr. Thomson had been some months confined to his room, chiefly to his bed, through illness; and not the slight-- est hopes of his ultimate recovery were held out by his medical advisers. It was only the very day after the reflections referred to had been passing through Joseph's mind, and that he had formed the resolution just mentioned, that Mr. Thomson, addressing himself to his affectionate wife, said, " Amelia, my dear." '' Yes, Robert." 198 A DYING SCENE. " I feel that my end is approaching." " Do you feel much worse, Robert? " inquired his wife, in affectionate accents, advancing to his bedside, and watching the expression of his countenance with an intensity of feeling, which those only can imagine who have leaned over the bed of a friend, in the hourly expectation of receiving the last look, and listening to the last accents of the beloved sufferer. " I do, Amelia, feel in a manner I have never felt before; and I have a strong conviction, that what I feel is a premonition of the near approach of death." The tears poured down the cheeks of his wife as he spoke, and her eyes seemed as if they had been immoveably fixed on his countenance. Oh, the reluctance to withdraw one's gaze from the countenance of a dying friend, when every moment is expected to be the sufferer's last! " I do not think T have an hour more to live," continued Mr. Thomson. " The moment is at hand which is to release the spirit from my A DYING SCENE. 199 suffering body — that eventful moment to which I have so long looked forward with so absorb- ing an interest." " Well, Robert, come when it may, you have no reason to dread its arrival," remarked Mrs. Thomson, in accents just only articulate enough, from] the excess of her feelings, to be under- stood. " Death," said the dying man, "has long been disarmed of his terrors to me. I know whom I have believed. In his atonement and perfect righteousness centre all my hopes. Will you," he added, " bring me Cowper's poems ? " » " Oh yes, my dear." And she brought to him a copy of Cowper's poems, which was lying on the table. He took up the volume, and turned over its pages. At length he said, " I cannot see, Amelia. I can- not find the passage I want." " Can I find it for you? " inquired Mrs. Thom- son, in tender accents, putting out her hand to receive the volume. 200 A DYING SCENE. *' If you will, I shall be glad," he replied, handing her the volume. " The passage is near the end of the fifth book of * The Task.' I do not remember the page, but it begins with the words, * Yet few remember them.' " Mrs. Thomson, after searching for some time, found the passage, and mentioned the circumstance to her dying husband. " Will you, then," he said, " read it to me, as I am unable to read it myself?" Mrs, Thomson was not at this time aware of the purport of the passage, and did not know what was occupying her husband's mind when he wished her to read it. She commenced reading : — " Yet few remember them. They liv'd unknown. Till Persecution dragg'd them into fame, And chas'd them up to heaven." Here Mrs. Thomson's feelings overcame her. The appropriateness of the passage to her husband's case now flashed upon her mind, and A DYING SCENE. 201 she gave vent to her emotions in a flood of tears. He held out his hand, and grasping in it that of his v^ife, bade her compose her feelings, and read the remaining lines. She did so, amidst sobs and tears : — " Their ashes flew — No marble tells us whither. With their names No bard embalms and sanctifies his song : And history, so warm on meaner themes, Is cold on this. She execrates, indeed, The tyranny that doom'd them to the fire. But gives the glorious sufF'rers little praise." I The primary reference in this passage of Cowper, is to those v^ho have suffered martyr- dom for their religious opinions. But men v^^hose bodies are consigned to the flames, are not the only martyrs for truth. There is a living as well as a dying martyrdom ; and there is a passive as well as an active persecu- tion. A man may be as much persecuted by ingratitude and neglect, as by the infliction of the pains and penalties of the law. And the former persecution is often the more difiicult of the two to bear. Mr. Thomson was thus per- k2 202 A DYING SCENE. secuted : he lived a martyr to his virtuous prin- ciples and upright conduct ; and he died, lite- rally died of a broken heart — a heart broken by the neglect and ingratitude of his fellow-men. The passage being read, Mr. Thomson again pressed the hand of his wife, but made no reference to what he had just heard. For several minutes he spoke not, nor attempted to speak a word. He was evidently, judging from the calm and contemplative aspect of his countenance, com- bined with the gentle movement of his lips, directing his prayers to the throne of that Being in whose presence he was about to appear. His intercourse with Heaven then ceased for a little season, and, turning to his wife, he said — " Amelia." " Yes, Robert." He took her hand anew in his, and, gazing in her face, said — "In death as in life my only hope is in the finished work of my Redeemer. I die happy — God bless you." He gazed for some moments — oh, the infinite affection there A DYING SCENE. 203 was in that look ! — on his wife. It was his last look : the words he had just spoken were his last words. In a moment more he closed his eyes, and then heaved a gentle sigh. It was the breathing out of his spirit into the bosom of his Maker. Let the author add, lest any should think otherwise, that this is no fancy picture ; it is a portraiture from life. The death of Mr. Thomson made a deep im- pression on Joseph. His mind, subdued and chastened as it had recently been by a succes- sion of painful privations, was at the time in a proper tone for profiting by such lessons as were afforded him by the death of his friend. He admired his character before, even though evincing no practical sympathy with the high and holy principles which were the guide of his life ; and now that he was gone, he saw a double beauty in the sterling rectitude of his conduct. Deeply did he deplore the circumstance of his not having cultivated his acquaintance more; but regrets were unavailing now. It is always 204 DEPARTED FRIENDS. thus : we never duly appreciate moral worth, when that worth is among us. It is only when it is gone — when he in whose words and actions it received a living embodiment, has been trans- lated from our world to a purer and happier sphere, that we perceive its full value, and abandon ourselves to vain regrets that we did not more highly prize, and more studiously court, the society of him whose loss we deplore. CHAPTER XL Joseph obliged to revisit the pawnbroker's — Pawnbroker's manners — Increasing pressure of Joseph's circumstances — Leaves his lodgings. The small sum, referred to in the last chapter but one, as having been procured at the pawn- broker's, was now gone, notwithstanding all the economy which Joseph could practise. He was consequently once more without the means of purchasing the most humble meal. What was to be done? A little reflection on the subject satisfied him, that the only resource for him, if he would escape actual starvation, was in another visit to the money-lender. That point, therefore, was decided. The only question was, as to the article on which he should solicit a small sum, wherewith to administer to his more 206 pawnbroker's manners. urgent necessities. Anxious to keep up, as long as possible, a respectable appearance, he resolved on retaining, as long as he could, his outward apparel. The conclusion, therefore, to which he came was, to deposit in the pawn- broker's hands four of his best shirts. With these he accordingly proceeded to " My Uncle's," and, though still feeling considerably embar- rassed at the idea of entering a pawnbroker's on such an errand, the measure of that embarrass- ment bore no comparison to that which he had experienced on his first visit. He entered the shop, stating the purpose — which, however, was almost unnecessary — for which he had come. " My Uncle " snatched up the parcel as before, untied it, narrowly inspected the condition of the articles, and gruffly put the question — " How much do you want for these?" Joseph, instead of, as on the former occasion, replying, " Whatever you think them worth," said he expected to get thirty shillings, each of pawnbroker's manners. S07 the shirts having cost him eighteen shillings, and neither of them being much worn. " Can't give it," remarked the man of pledges, in a surly tone, contemptuously flinging down the shirts on that part of the counter where Joseph stood. " Then what will you give ? " inquired Joseph. " Can't advance more than a sovereign," replied the pawnbroker. " Make it twenty-five shillings," said Joseph. " Not a farthing more," pursued " My yncle," abruptly turning away from his cus-» tomer, and proceeding to adjust some articles in the window. " Then I suppose I must take it, though it is a great deal too little," remarked Joseph. The pawnbroker took the articles, threw them under the counter, tossed down a sove- reign, put his hand into a drawer, drew out a ticket, made the necessary entries thereon, and then flung it also on the counter, in imitation of 208 Joseph's lodgings. the scornful way in which he had thrown down the sovereign but a few minutes before. What will not necessity make men submit to ? But for the dire necessity of Joseph's situa- tion, he would have flung both the sovereign and the duplicate in the other's face, and, very likely, have made several hurried "plantations" of his fist in the same locality — to the bargain. He was painfully alive to the insulting demea- nour of the person with whom he was, unfortu- nately for himself, transacting business ; but still he felt obliged to sacrifice his feelings to his necessities. He accordingly took up the sovereign and the duplicate, and walked out of the shop without saying a word. He went to his home — if home, where there was nothing but destitution and misery, it could be called — and mused over the painful position in which his own follies had placed him, until he felt as if his heart would actually break. His history for the next four weeks offered a repetition of that of the previous month. For Joseph's lodgings. 209 that length of time he continued to live, or, rather, to exist, on his twenty shillings. The last penny being at length gone, and not a mor- sel of food in his apartment, there was no other alternative for him but to resort again to the pawnbroker. Other four shirts followed the example of the four previously mentioned, and in another month, the remaining four, all he had, travelled the same road. In six weeks more, every article in his possession, with an excep- tion afterwards to be mentioned, was also gone. His only clothing now consisted of what was on his back, and that was every day diminishing in value, as well as suffer- ing in appearance. Hitherto he had been paying three shillings for the wretched room in which he vegetated ; and his landlady, with the shrewdness characteristic of her class, per- ceiving that matters were weekly getting worse with her lodger, took care that he should not be suffered to fall in arrears to her. Every Saturday evening she applied for her money ; 210 LEAVES HIS LODGINGS. and, if he begged to be allowed to let it stand over till next week, she became so clamorous and so importunate in her applications, that he would rather have died of absolute want than have submitted to the movements of her tongue. The predicament, therefore, in which he found himself at last placed was this — either he must perish of hunger in his present lodgings, or he must seek some hole in which to lodge, where the rent would not be half so much. For the last fortnight he had lived on three-pennyworth of bread and a morsel of cheese a-day, in order that, out of the few shillings he had still in his possession, he might have wherewith to meet his landlady's weekly application for the rent of his room. He found his physical frame sinking under his privations ; and saw that, if he were much longer forced to live on the same inadequate supply of food, his death would be inevitable. He therefore gave his landlady a week's notice of his intention to leave, and, at the expiry of the time, he accordingly quitted. HIS NEW LODGINGS NOT KNOWN. 211 But where he went nobody knew. He gave not the slightest intimation to the landlady whose lodgings he had left. Indeed, as there had t)een nothing in her conduct so kindly as to induce him to mention the place, so there was nothing in his present circumstances to render it necessary that he should give her the in- formation. No one had called on him of late ; he had received no letters, except answers to unsuccessful applications for some sort of em- ployment or other ; for latterly he would have been but too happy to become the veriest drudge, as clerk in any office or otherwise, so • as that he could have thereby got only a guinea or sovereign a-week. He meant, however, to make no farther applications for employment of any kind ; for to such straits had he been reduced in the article of apparel, that he was no longer fit to be seen in public, and, conse- quently, was not in a condition to accept of any situation or other employment requiring his being seen, even had it been offered to him. 2\2 HIS NEW LODGINGS NOT KNOWN. What, then, was to become of him ? That was a question which often occurred to his mind, but it was one which he could not answer. He saw no prospect before him but eventual death, from want of the necessaries of life ; and yet, with that love of life which is so characteristic of human nature in general, but which is pecu- liarly so of the most wretched and forlorn of mankind, he clung to existence with a greater tenacity of grasp than ever. Suicide, which had repeatedly (as before mentioned) suggested itself to his mind, in the beginning of his re- verses, as a refuge for the ills of earth, was now never thought of; or, if it did come across his mind, it was only to be immediately followed by a perfect horror at the very idea. Two days after he had left, a gentleman called at the lodgings he had just quitted. On inquiring for Joseph, his late landlady men- tioned that he was no longer a lodger of hers. The stranger, thinking that he might only be denying himself, because not in a condition to HIS NEW LODGINGS NOT KNOWN. 213 see any one who might call, said — " My name is Freeling. Will you give Mr. Jenkins my card, and, if he is in, he will be happy to see me." Mr. Freeling, who was a friend of Mr. Lovegood, and met with Joseph in Mr. L.'s house, offered his card to the landlady ; but she did not take it, repeating, with additional emphasis, her,, assurance that Mr. Jenkins had left her pre- mises, and that she had not the remotest idea where he was gone. Mr. Freeling returned home quite disappointed at not having seen Joseph, or obtained any clue as to where he was to be seen. CHAPTER XII. Joseph's new lodgings — Painfulness of his position, in con- sequence of the conflict between his necessities and feel- ings — Resolves to advertise for a wife with money — The issue of the expedient. 'We must now so far, for the moment, antici- pate the future, as to mention that, though no one knew to what place Joseph had repaired when he left his last lodging, that his new abode was in a miserable alley leading from Drury Lane. He now again changed his mind, and re- solved to renew his efforts to do something for a subsistence. Scheme after scheme for retrieving his ruined fortunes suggested itself to his mind ; but many of his projects were of so impracticable, if not absurd, a na- Joseph's necessities and feelings. 215 ture, that no sooner had he formed them, than he saw, bewildered though his mind now was, that they must be abandoned. In- deed, he felt not only surprised at his own folly, but ashamed of himself, because of the supremely ridiculous ideas that presented them- selves to him, as pointing out the probable means of rescuing himself from the painful position in which he was placed. Among these, was the idea of advertising for a wife with a limited fortune, or a small annuity; for his notions did not soar so high as a handsome fortune. His mind was so chastened, and his spirit so subdued, by his recent adversities, that he would have been contented with anything, either in the shape of employment, or in the shape of a wife, possessed of such means as would suffice to place him above absolute want. And it will invariably be found to be so, in the case of those who are reduced, as he was, to the very verge of starvation. However elevated their notions may become, after they have been 216 Joseph's necessities and feelings. snatched from the doom of death, with which they were menaced, from the absence of the necessaries of life — they are, for the moment, so humbled and abased as that they fancy they could be the most contented and happiest of men, were their bread and water hence- forth to be made sure. Joseph's books, tena- ciously as he had clung to them, were by this time all in the pawnbroker's hands ; and the only articles now in his possession on which he could raise a trifling amount, were the trin- kets of his mother, referred to in a former chapter. These trinkets consisted of a brooch, in which was placed a small portion of his father's hair, and two rings, one of which he always wore on his finger. The brooch was peculiarly dear to him, because it had been so to his mother; and the rings he had always resolved not to part wdth, unless his life should be placed in the most imminent jeopardy, for want of food. At all events, he had made up his mind to try the effect of an advertisement RESOLVES TO ADVERTISE FOR A WIFE. 217 for a wife with a limited competency, before having recourse to the pawnbroker with either of the articles in question. Previously, how- ever, to sending his advertisement to the ** Morning Herald," it was necessary that he should have the money wherewith to pay for it. And whence was this to come ? There was no alternative but to pledge either of the three trinkets. Which of them was it to be ? The brooch, after a moment's reflection, he set aside as out of the question. Rather, he resolved in his own mind, than part with it, he would part with life^ — would submit to die of want. So he thought at the time, and so have many, in similar circumstances, thought, until the extremity of their case had reached its climax. Eventually, after much deliberation and carefully weighing the respective claims of the two rings to be spared the stigma of being deposited in a pawnbroker's drawers, to be, in the course of time, exhibited in his window — Joseph decided as to which he should place in 218 RESOLVES TO ADVERTISE FOR A WIFE. pledge for the loan of a small sum. Before, however, proceeding to " My Uncle's," he thought it would be as well to draw up his intended advertisement — as, if that were once done to his mind, he could proceed directly from the pawnbroker's, when he had got the money, to the office of the "Morning Herald," and have it inserted at once. He accordingly began to draw up an advertisement, announc- ing that he was willing to negotiate with any lady of an unexceptionable character, agreeable manners, good temper, possessed of a limited fortune, or moderate annuity, and whose age did not exceed forty-five. The fact was, though he enumerated these various conditions as neces- sary in any lady who was open to a matrimonial negotiation with him, he would have departed from either and all of them but one ; or, at all events, would not have been very difficult to deal with, in relation to the others. The essential qualification with him — the grand attraction on the part of the lady, was the possession of such RESOLVES TO ADVERTISE FOR A WIFE. 219 a sum, at her own disposal, as would relieve his mind for ever afterwards from the apprehensions he now felt of actually dying of want. So much for the part of the advertisement which related to the lady. Now he had to apply himself to that part of it, equally neces- sary with the other, which referred to himself. This he found to be a more difficult and deli- cate matter than in the case of the lady. How should he describe himself? The question, when put to his own mind, quite confounded him. Even to convey an idea of his age, he found to be a very perplexing task. He knew his age was thirty-five ; but he was at a loss to know whether or not he ought to prefix a state- ment of the fact by calling himself a " young man." He was even doubtful whether he ought to give his real age. It was a question whether it would not be advisable to represent himself as six or seven years older than he was ; for he felt that his recent reverses had added fully that number of years to his seeming age. ^20 RESOLVES TO ADVERTISE FOR A WIFE* And he thought, in his own mind, that if his advertisement should have the effect of bringing him in contact with any lady, she would — con- cluding that he was at least forty-one or forty- two — reason with herself that, if he deceived her on this point, he might deceive her on any other: consequently the acquaintance might be nipped in the bud. Eventually he came to the con- clusion, that he had better defer the farther consideration of the question of age, until he had made up his mind as to the wording of the other parts of the advertisement. It was cus- tomary for matrimonial advertisers to be very eloquent in praise of their mental qualities, and not to fall below the truth in the description of their personal attractions. Was he to follow the general practice ? Was he to represent himself as a man of excellent disposition, affectionate feelings, gentlemanly manners, strictly moral conduct, the possessor of a cul- tivated mind, and the business of whose life it would be to make the partner of his bosom RESOLVES TO ADVERTISE FOR A WIFE. 221 happy ? The question was not with him, whe- ther this was altogether or partly true. Even supposing he felt conscious that it was literally true, it occurred to him, whether such a eulo- gium would come with a good grace from him- self; whether, if pronounced or written at all, it would not he more becomingly pronounced by other lips, or written with other pen, than his. He recoiled at the thought of sending such an encomium on himself to the press ; and, under the influence of that feeling, put his pen through the eulogistic passage. And yet, what if something self-laudatory were essential to the ^uccess of his scheme ? What if the absence of some flattering representation of himself, per- sonally and mentally, should be fatal to the expedient to which he was about to have recourse ? He had no money to spare in first trying the experiment in one way, and then, if unsuccessful, resorting to another mode of accomplishing his purpose. The more he thought on the subject, the 2ii2 HIS ADVERTISEMENT. greater did his perplexity become. At length, after much painful deliberation, and carefully weighing the matter in all its bearings, he re- solved on coming to a compromise between his feelings and his chances of a successful issue to his experiment. He determined to praise himself, deeming that to be indispensable ; but then he also determined, that he should con- siderably moderate the eulogy he had penned. To hit the happy medium he aimed at, he found to be one of the most difficult tasks he had ever undertaken. Experienced as he was in com- position, he here found himself wholly at fault. Repeated were the attempts he made to draw up a description of himself which should neither lower him in his own estimation, nor diminish the chances of a successful result to the novel experiment he was about to make. For hours he deliberated and wrote; and then reversed his resolutions, and cancelled his manuscript. At length he produced the following : — " Ma- trimony. — A gentleman under forty years of HIS ADVERTISEMENT. 2^3 age, devotedly attached to literary pursuits, of kindly disposition and agreeable manners, is desirous of meeting with a lady, possessed of some property, and of an age and dispo- sition similar to his own — with whom to enter into a matrimonial union. The most entire secrecy may be relied on. Letters, post paid " — (a most essential condition in the circum- stances in which Joseph was then placed) — " to be addressed to J. J., at the Twopenny Post- office, Drury Lane." Joseph again and again read this advertise- ment, and suddenly summing up the requir site resolution, left his lodgings to proceed with it to the office in Catherine Street — calling at a pawnbroker's on the way, to " raise," on the ring before referred to, the means wherewith to pay for its insertion. Just as he had quitted " My Uncle's " an idea struck him — and he was amazed that it should not have struck him be- fore — namely, that it would be a very awkward thing to present such an advertisement himself, 224} SENDS HIS ADVERTISEMENT. as the very heading would necessarily attract the attention of the clerks in the office, and place him in a very unpleasant position. In- deed, it was very possible that, though the clerks were unknown to him, he might, having been so long connected with the press, be known to them. What, then, was to be done ? He could not intrust any one else with the presentation of such an advertisement, lest his secret should ooze out. And yet he knew, on the other hand, that the transmission of the money was necessary to the appearance of the advertisement. The idea at length suggested itself to him — and perhaps the hint may not be lost on others who may be similarly circum- stanced — that the proper course for him would be, to drop the advertisement into the letter- box, enclosing the money along with it. But, then, how was he to know the price ? He knew that, according to the scale of most, if not all of the morning papers, the price, if the number of lines was under fifteen, did not SENDS HIS ADVERTISEMENT. 225 exceed seven shillings. He procured a copy of the " Morning Herald," and by calculating the number of words in his advertisement, and the number of words which went to make up fif- teen lines in that journal, he found that he was within the seven-shilling limits. He accord- ingly enclosed that amount with his advertise- ment, and dropped the package into the letter- box after the evening had become dark. Next morning the advertisement appeared. To de- scribe the feelings with which Joseph read it, were impossible. A dimness came over his eyes, and a dizziness seized his head. He felt , that he had taken a desperate step. Still it was taken, and he resolved to await the issue with all the calmness he could command. Eventful as had been the career of Jose^jh, he felt that this was emphatically an era in his existence. No pen can describe the emotions that now agitated his mind, as he waited the result of the extraordinary expedient to which he had resorted. ** Will there be any an- l2 SS6 SENDS HIS ADVERTISEMENT. swers to the advertisement ? " " Will there be many ? " '* What will be their character ? " "Will any one take advantage of the circum- stance of my advertising for a wife, to attempt to practise a hoax at my expense ? " These were among the questions which ever and anon suggested themselves to his anxious mind ; and the only answer he could give was, that the event alone would decide. He could not rea- sonably expect any answer sooner than the middle of the day, there not being time for an answer before then. When the clock struck twelve, his bosom began to beat with a more hurried pulsation than he had ever experienced before. Why it did so at that particular mo- ment, he could hardly tell. The question now, for the first time, occurred to him, how were the answers, supposing there were to be any, to be obtained from the two-penny post-office in Drury Lane ? He was afraid to go there him- self, lest the advertisement should have been observed by the person taking charge of the let- SENDS HIS ADVERTISEMENT. 227 ters, and Joseph be at once identified as tlie party advertising. To ask the children of any of the family Hving in the same house as that in which he now lodged, to go to the post-office to inquire for letters addressed " J. J.," would, he also thought, be a rather dangerous course — as even in the event of the real character of the letters not being ascertained, some strange suspicions might be formed as to who or what a person could be who was afraid to give his real name and address. Eventually he employed the boy of a widow living in the neighbourhood, to call every two hours at the post-office, and inquire whether there were any letters agreeable to the address he had given, and which he wrote on a slip of paper. One letter in answer to his advertisement was received at two o'clock, another at four, and a third, and the last, about seven in the evening. Each of the three writers represented herself as possessing considerable property, and intimated her will- ingness to enter into a correspondence on the 228 RECEIVES ANSWERS. subject of Joseph's advertisement. All spoke in decided terms of their virtuous principles and affectionate disposition — concluding their notes with an assurance that, should they be fortunate enough to come to a matrimonial arrangement with " J. J.," it would be the great object of their lives to render him perfectly happy. One of the three answers was written in so masculine a hand, that Joseph doubted whe- ther it was a lady's production at all. He had strong suspicions that it was a man's hand dis- guised, and that the letter was the result of some heartless scheme to trifle with his feelings. It was therefore flung into the fire at once. The second had every appearance of being a feminine emanation ; but from the miserable spelling, and the wretched composition, it was as clear as the most obvious mathematical pro- position, that the writer could not be a person of any education whatever ; while there were some expressions in the epistle, which conclu- sively showed that she must be a woman of an (( MATILDA." 229 essentially vulgar mind. The third letter was written in an elegant lady-like hand, and alto- gether proved itself to be the production of a cultivated mind. It was signed " Matilda," and talked emphatically of the importance of the strictest secrecy being observed ; as, though her fortune was entirely at her own disposal, she was unwilling that any of her friends should ever know she had resorted to such a step as answering an advertisement for a wife. Joseph was delighted with this letter ; and already regarded the fair writer as his wife-elect. He replied to her note without a moment's delay ; ^ expressing his conviction that, on a better ac- quaintance with each other, they would respec- tively find that they possessed that community of feeling and similarity of tastes so necessary to matrimonial bliss. To this sentiment " Matilda " responded the moment she received the " J. J." letter ; assuring her unknown lover, and, she trusted, destined husband, that she was convinced they were formed for each other's 230 " MATILDA." ^^ society, and that their union would be produc- tive of unspeakable happiness. She added that, if it should be found they were similar in their views, pursuits, and feelings, the £450 a-year settled on her for life and entirely at her dis- posal, would suffice, with good management, to place them beyond the anxieties which so gene- rally arise from pecuniary pressure. Joseph was in ecstacies with this letter. Here, as if by the purest accident, had "come out the very information he was so anxious to obtain, but which, from feelings of delicacy to the lady, he could never have sought to acquire by putting the question as to the amount of her fortune, directly to her. A most affectionate correspondence was carried on for several days by the unknown lovers, each discovering in the other all the qualities calculated to conduce to matrimonial happiness. Matters ripened apace ; and the lady at length hinted the propriety of a personal interview, when they could make a more unreserved expression of their [feelings to " MATILDA." 331 each other, than they could do by letter ; and when the necessary arrangements for their mar- riage could be made. Joseph was pleased with the suggestion ; because, in the first place, it betokened confidence in her own person, prin- ciples, and pecuniary possessions; and, in the second, because it showed that she was in earnest in the negotiation that had been going on between them. The only question was, how could he see her in his faded clothing? To have an interview with her — and the first inter- view, too — in a suit of apparel which, from the wear and tear it had undergone, was fitter for the locality of Rag Fair than lady's eyes, was out of the question. It might prove fatal to his hopes — might in a moment blast all his fondly-cherished prospects of future happiness. Not an instant was to be lost. " Matilda " was burning with impatience personally to see her lover, whom hitherto she had only seen in imagi- nation. And if she were much longer denied the gratification, it was impossible to say what would 2S2 " MATILDA." be the consequences. An idea struck the mind of Joseph, Hitherto he had determined not, on any account, to part with the brooch which had belonged to his mother — a trinket, as before men- tioned, dear to her heart, because it contained a portion of the hair of her husband ; and dear to Joseph's heart, because it had been so dear to that of his mother. But now it occurred to him, that to pledge it, would not be to sell it : it would only be to transfer it to the care of an- other for a few weeks, by which time, he had no doubt of being the husband of " Matilda," and, consequently, in circumstances to rescue the brooch from the clutches of " My Uncle." The article was valuable : those who knew its value, said it was worth at least ten guineas. To the pawnbroker he at once repaired, and procured on it an advance of £7. Of this sum he expended £6 in procuring a new suit of clothes, wherein to meet " Matilda." The clothes being got, he fixed, at her request, a time and place for an interview. This was MAKES AN APPOINTMENT. 23S on a Wednesday ; and he proposed Friday. " Matilda " said she had made a previous pro- mise to spend Friday and Saturday with a lady friend, and thought it better not to excite the suspicions of her friends by breaking her promise ; but any day, any hour, any place, next week, which Joseph might name, would suit her. Eager for the interview, now that he was in a condition to be* seen, Joseph named a confectioner's shop in the Strand, as the place of meeting, and a particular hour on Monday, as the time. " Matilda" wrote him back, that the appointment was in every respect to her mind, and that she would be at the place, " punctual as lover to the moment sworn." It ought to be here remarked, that the lovers had previously agreed between themselves as to the distinctive marks by which they should know each other when they met. The interval appeared an age to Joseph. He spent it in meditating on what he should do, and how he should spend his time, when he 234 MAKES AN APPOINTMENT. became the possessor of Matilda and £450 a-year. One thing he had resolved on. After the reverses he had undergone, he v^ould not, in his new relation of a married man, remain in London. Devonshire was an excellent place, and on £ 450 a-year, he and Mrs. Jenkins could there live in princely splendour. The Continent, too, was cheap, and possessed various other attractions. Should they settle in Devonshire, or repair to the Continent ? After cogitating for some time on the question, it occurred to Joseph that it was but proper that his intended wife should have a voice in the matter ; and that he ought, therefore, to reserve the farther con- sideration of it until after they w^ere married. Meantime, Monday was steadily though slowly approaching; and the nearer the time arrived for the appointed meeting, the more intense did Joseph's anxiety become to enclose " Matilda" in his arms. What he felt in his waking thoughts, what he dreamed in the moments of his partial repose, we will not undertake to describe, be- MAKES AN APPOINTMENT. 235 cause his feelings were not of a kind to admit of description. The hour, though sluggish in its advances, did at length arrive. Joseph was in the confectioner's shop the moment St. Martin's clock struck the appointed time. As he could not mention the nature of his errand, he wished to convey the idea that he had dropped in for the purpose of taking some refreshment. With the view of strengthening this impression, he commenced ordering and eating sweetmeats with a princely liberality. He momentarily expected the object of his affections; he could not say the delight of his eyes, as he had not yet been privileged to obtain even a glance of her. Still, there was no ap- pearance of " Matilda." He continued to hope that she would "be presently." Meanwhile, he persevered in the work of stuffing himself with sponge-cakes and other sweetmeats, until he ran a risk of sharing the fate of the frog in the fable ; though not exactly from the same cause. A full hour — and it was the longest 2S6 A DISAPPOINTMENT. Joseph had ever spent — elapsed without any symptom of his intended wife appearing. This was alarming ; it was disheartening in the extreme. And, to aggravate the evil — if, indeed, an evil of such immeasurable magnitude could admit of aggravation — having already, as just mentioned, half killed himself with eating sweetmeats, he was now unable, even had he been willing, to swallow a morsel more. What, then, was he to do; for he felt it would be awkward to remain where he was without eating something. He bethought himself of quitting the shop and taking his station outside, where he could see every person who entered. Many made their entrances and their exits, but no lady was to be seen that bore any resemblance to his lady- For two long hours Joseph faith- fully watched outside ; and, it being now three hours beyond the appointed time, he resolved to return home, to apprise her by letter of her non-observance of her appointment, and ascer- tain the reason. A thousand things presented A DISAPPOINTMENT. 237 themselves to his excited mind as the probable cause of the non-fulfilment of " Matilda's" engagement. She may have been suddenly- seized with illness ; she may have met with some accident ; she may have been induced, by some half-moral, half-physical-force agency, of which he was ignorant, to protract her visit for a few days longer at the house of her lady friend, where she was to have spent the Friday and Saturday ; or, worst of all, her relations may have discovered the correspondence that had taken place between her and himself, and, to prevent the marriage, may have caused her to be put out of the way. Such were some of Joseph's fears and con- jectures, as he returned home. On reaching his miserable room in the upper story of the house in which he lived, he found a letter lying on the table. It was from " Matilda." He eagerly snatched it up, broke open the seal, and read the contents. It explained all in a few words. It was as follows : — 238 THE ISSUE. " Monday Morning. " Dear Sir — You will no doubt be surprised at finding that I have not kept my appointment with you this morning. The reason is that, before this note can reach you, I shall be the wife of another. I am sorry that matters should have proceeded so far between us ; but, be assured that, when we commenced our correspondence, I not only had not the remotest idea of being married to him who, within two hours from this date, will lead me to the hymeneal altar, but did not even know there was such a gentleman in existence. We met accidentally, and, being pleased with each other, are now on the eve of becoming husband and wife. I am sure you will pardon me for uniting my destinies with those of a man whom I have seen, in preference to marrying a man whom I have not seen. Believe me to remain, " Dear Sir, " Your sincere Friend, " Matilda." THE ISSUE, 2S9 Was Joseph alive or dead — asleep or awake — in his senses or out of them — when he read this letter ? Some one else might have answered the questions, but he could not. He went out, and came in again in a few minutes, paced the room to and fro, lay down on his bed and rose up. His landlady was alarmed at his agitated manner, but did not know whether or not she ought to interfere. He remained in his apart- ment until dark, and then walking down-stairs with a bundle under his arm, paid his landlady a week's lodgings, which happened to be due that very day. In doing this he exchanged not a word with her. He then hurriedly quitted the place. He did not return ; indeed, she scarcely expected he would. She made sure, in her own mind, that he had proceeded forth- with to some place for the purpose o€ commit- ting suicide. She deeply regretted that she had not followed him, and given information to the first policeman she saw, in order that he might be prevented from laying violent hands on him- 240 THE ISSUE. self. To follow him now would be unavailing, as she knew not what direction he had taken. — For some days afterwards she eagerly looked in the papers for accounts of suicides, but found none that would answer that of the individual in whose fate she felt an interest. <• CHAPTER XIII. Efforts of congregational associations to ameliorate the condi- tion of the suffering poor — State of the population in the neighbourhood of Gray's Inn Lane — An instance given of Christian benevolence — A distressed family — A stranger. Connected with every place of worship in the metropolis, where the congregation is large, and the doctrines preached are evangelical, there is, as mentioned at length in the author's "Lights and Shadows of London Life," a society or association having for its special object the administration of temporal relief, in conjunction with spiritual advice, to the poorer inhabitants of the district in which the church or chape] is situated. Few persons have any idea of the great amount of good which is effected by means of this comparatively unknown instrumentahty. The author testifies to facts which have come VOL. III. M 242 STATE OF THE POOR IN LONDON. under his own observation, when he says, that thousands of persons in the most extreme indi- gence, who, in all probability, must otherwise have perished from want of the necessaries of life, have, through the agency in question, had their immediate necessities supplied, and re- ceived continued assistance until either some permanent provision has been made for them, or they have been put in the way of making provision for themselves. Persons, too, labour- ing under dangerous maladies, often, through the same merciful agency, receive, gratuitously, the best medical advice ; and numerous instances could be given, in which the opportune medical aid so afforded has been — so far as the human eye could perceive — the means of rescuing the parties from an otherwise inevitable grave. Clothes also, as well as food and medicine, are given, where clothes are particularly needed. In a word, all the temporal necessities of the destitute poor, are ministered to by the hand of congregational charity. But the great feature. STATE OF THE POOR IN LONDON. J343 and^ to the religious mind the grand recommenda- tion, of the associations in question, consists in the invariable connexion which exists between the temporal relief administered, and the spiritual advice given. The well-being of the soul is, indeed, the principal object sought to be gained. The supply of temporal wants, though import- ant, and to be, in the estimation of ever}^ benevolent mind, desired on its own account, is regarded, compared with spiritual benefit, as of subordinate importance. Philosophy, however, teaches, and experience confirms the language of philosophy, that no means are so effectual for reaching the hearts of those who are unconcerned about divine things, as those which seek to reach them through the medium of their temporal interests. When the visitors of these societies go into the cellars and garrets of the poorer districts of the metropolis, with not only the Bible, or religious tracts, in their pockets, but the accents of temporal sympathy on their lips, and the fruits of charity in their 244 CHRISTIAN SYMPATHY FOR THE POOR. hands; when, if it be necessary to employ another phraseology, they preface their reli- gious counsels by furnishing the parties with the means of temporal relief — then the proba- bilities that their spiritual mission will be suc- cessful, are greatly increased. The wretched ob- jects of their compassion are convinced, that the concern expressed for their spiritual well-being is sincere when they experience a previous proof of the disposition of their visitors to ameliorate their temporal condition. The ad- ministration of temporal assistance according to the peculiar circumstances of the parties requiring the aid, has a wonderful tendency to open the mind to the reception of divine truth. Many a hardened deist — nay, many a confirmed atheist has been known to bow down before the mighty moral power with which the messen- ger of temporal mercy is clothed. The most inveterate foes to Christianity cannot, even if they would, divest their minds of the conviction, that there must be something essentially excel- CHRISTIAN SYMPATHY FOR THE POOR. 245 lent in a system of faith which disposes those who have embraced it, not only to spend as much as they can spare of their worldly sub- stance, consistently with the claims which their own families have upon them, in relieving the necessities of others — even of those who are hostile to their religious views — but also to forego the pleasures of society, in order that they may personally visit the abodes of the destitute, and seek out the haunts of the wretched and forlorn. Many a poor miserable infidel has asked himself, when his wants have been ministered to by the hand of Christian beneficence — " Has infidelity ever sent its emissaries in the character of messengers of mercy to me ; seeking me out in my miserable hovel, whispering into my ear words of ten- derness, affectionately grasping my shrivelled hand, and supplying my bodily wants ? " The answer to the question invariably is, " Never." Infidelity does nothing of the kind. It has been reserved for Christianity to do this. The 246 MR. FREELING. religion of Jesus alone performs offices of charity and mercy. On the list of visitors of one of these societies belonging to a congregation in the neighbour- hood of Gray's Inn Lane, was to be found the name of Mr. Freeling. Mr. Lovegood had been a member in the same place of worship ; and it was through their there constantly meeting together, that they had become acquainted. Entertain- ing the same principles on all the more essential points in the Christian system — both being men of cultivated minds — and equally influenced by a desire to consecrate themselves to the service of their Divine Master, and to promote the good of their fellow-creatures — their acquaint- ance soon ripened into a close and cordial friendship. The remembrance of having seen Mr. Jenkins at Mr. Lovegood's house, and the interest which the latter had expressed in Joseph's welfare, made Mr. Freeling anxious, after his friend's death, to ascertain how Joseph was getting on in the world. Circumstances pre- MR. FREELING. 247 vented his calling on Joseph immediately after Mr. Lovegood's death. When he did call, he found, in answer to inquiries he made, that Joseph had lost his situation, and had left his former lodging. He anxiously inquired of his late landlady whether she could inform him to what place Joseph had gone. She could not give him the desired information. The result, therefore, of the call being so unsatisfactory, as to hold out no hope of his ever being able to ascertain whither Joseph had now repaired, Mr. Freeling had well-nigh ceased to think of him. Perhaps there are few places in London in which its poorer population are more densely crowded together, than in that part of Gray's Inn Lane, which is opposite the eastern end of Gray's Inn Hall. There, whole families of five, six, seven, eight, and sometimes nine, are crowded into small rooms, varying from twelve to fourteen feet square. In many of the houses, there are eight or ten of these rooms, each 248 NEIGHBOURHOOD OF GRAY's INN LANE. tenanted by its own family. How human beings can contrive to breathe in such places — especially as the adjoining courts and alleys, and, indeed, the locality altogether, are ever filled with a confined and impure atmosphere — is one of those mysteries which are so numerous in the economy of metropolitan life. It need scarcely be mentioned, that this deplorable want of accommodation is accompanied, in the ma- jority of cases, by all the wretchedness arising from extreme destitution. Nothing, indeed, as will at once occur to the mind of the reader, but the most abject poverty could ever induce human beings thus to herd together, like so many pigs, in such small confined apartments — apartments so small and confined, as scarcely to admit of their moving about at all, when the whole family are " at home." The aspect of wretchedness which these hovels exhibit, and the aspect of misery which the inmates them- selves present, admits not of description. It is not even to be conceived. It is a thing which. A DISTRESSED FAMILY. 249 to be realized by the mind, must be seen by the eye. To visit, as frequently as possible, the unfor- tunate creatures dragging out a wretched ex- istence in this locality, was one of the bene- volent objects which Mr. Freeling had proposed to himself for some years past. One particular house he had not visited for ten weeks. The day, indeed, on which he had last visited the families in it, was that on which he had made the fruitless inquiry after Joseph Jenkins. One of the families occupied a wretched room in the top of the house. The eldest of four children, a girl twelve years of age, was then complaining of illness ; but was not confined to bed — if, in- deed, it be not a misnomer to call by that name the small quantity of straw, covered over with a mass of rags, which lay in a corner. On revisiting the family, Mr. Freeling found the young creature unable any longer to move about. She was in the last stage of consump- tion. It was the winter season ; the day was m2 250 A DISTRESSED FAMILY. bitter cold, with the wind blowing strong. There was a handful of coals burning in the fire-place, but so small as to be only sensible to the eye ; they did not, in any perceptible degree, raise the temperature of the miserable garret. There was an apology for a window, but every pane was broken. Some of the broken panes were stopped up with rags ; others had pieces of paper pasted over them; and some had nothing at all. The piercing wind came whistling into the place ; so did rain or sleet, when the weather was rainy or sleety. Mr. Freeling had deeply felt for this family, be- cause of the destitution and wretchedness he had seen in the place on his former visits, even when the weather was genial, and there was no serious illness in it. Now he felt for the family with a peculiarly deep compassion. The father had been many weeks out of employ : the mother had a child at the breast, and was, in addition to the prostration of physical , strength conse- quent on the privation of necessary food, suf- A DISTRESSED FAMILY. 251 fering much from the effects of a neglected confinement. And now, to all the other afflictive dispensations of Providence, was added the hopeless condition in which, as re- garded her bodily health, their eldest daughter was placed. The prospective loss of their daughter, a very interesting and dutiful girl, pressed the more heavily on the parents, inas- much as she had reached that age in which she was beginning to be of great assistance to her mother. Still they were wonderfully resigned to the painful event which they knew to be at hand. Mr. Freeling imagined he saw in both a subduedness of spirit and mildness of manner which he had not observed in any of his pre- vious visits. And this struck him as more remarkable, because they were now in more trying circumstances than any in which he had ever seen them before. He was about to make an allusion to the circumstance, with the view of ascertaining whether the conclusion to which he had come was or was not correct, when the 252 A DISTRESSED FAMILY. father remarked — " All, sir, we shall ever have cause to bless God, in more senses than one, for having sent you here." "None vv^ould be more happy than myself, were that the case," said Mr. Freeling. " It is the case, sir. You have been the means of not only often relieving our temporal wants, but of doing us spiritual good." " I am delighted to hear it : would you be kind enough to tell me in what way ? " "You remember the last visit you kindly paid us." " I do," replied Mr. Freeling: " it was about ten weeks ago," " And you remember that, on that occasion, you particularly addressed yourself to Sarah, our eldest daughter, then slightly complaining of illness, but not supposing herself, nor being supposed by us, to be seriously ill." " I remember it quite well. I remember also the substance of my observations to her." "And that you put into her hand a tract. A DISTRESSED FAMILY. 25S entitled * The Uncertainty of Life — The Cer- tainty of Death.' " " I have a distinct recollection of the circum- stance. That tract has been blessed for the conversion of many." " It has, in conjunction with your remarks and prayer on the occasion, been blessed for her conversion. She is now sensible that she is dying ; but, relying on the finished work of her Redeemer, is calm and composed in the pros- pect of the solemn event that is before her." The full amount of the joy which Mr. Free- ling experienced on hearing this, can only be ? conceived by a Christian mind. A conversation of a very serious character — too serious, indeed, for the pages of a work principally devoted to light literature — ensued between Mr. Free- ling and the dying daughter. The result of that conversation was, to leave a decided conviction on Mr. Freeling's mind, not only that the dying girl had been truly converted, but that impressions which promised to termi- 254 A DISTRESSED FAMILY. nate in an entire transformation of character had been made, through her instrumentality, on the minds of the father and mother. Mr. Freeling, after having administered to the tempo- ral necessities of the family for that night— he having no more money with him at the time than would barely suffice for the night — quitted the place, mentioning that he would revisit them on the following day, and bring with him a medical man, in the hope that, though no human means were likely to avail for the recovery of -their daughter, something might be done to abate the severity of her cough, and otherwise lessen her sufferings. The father and mother of the dying girl having severally ex- pressed their heartfelt thanks to Mr. Freeling for his kindness, he took his departure. " I'm quite delighted," said the father, " that he (meaning Mr. Freeling) is to bring a medical man with him to-morrow; not so much on account of poor Sarah, as T fear that nothing can be done to lessen her sufferings, as on A STRANGER. ^55 account of the stranger in the back room ; for he has been very ill for the last few days." The mother of the dying girl, to whom this was addressed, expressed herself to the same effect. The party of whom they were speaking was a young man, seemingly about thirty-four or thirty-five years of age, who had taken, some time previously, at a shilling a-week, the back garret of the house. There was a great deal of mystery about him. He was reserved in his manner, never exchanging more than two or three common-place phrases with the other persons living in the house. And yet all who saw him felt interested in him. He never went out in the day-time ; but generally quitted his wretched abode, for about an hour after it had become dark. For the last three days he had not risen from his miserable pallet, consisting of some shavings of wood thrown down in a corner of the room, and imperfectly kept toge- ther by two broken chairs. On inquiry, it was found that he was very unwell ; his illness being 25G A STRANGER. brought on by the want of the necessaries of life, and the cold to which he had been exposed in the garret in which he had shut himself up. The father of the family just visited by Mr. Freeling, mentioned to the sick person that that gentleman had kindly promised to call next day with a medical man to see his daughter ; adding, that, if agreeable, he would ask the doctor to see him. The sick man assented, and after a few words more the other asked him if he would accept of a slice of bread and a cup of coffee, which they had been able to procure through the benevolence of the gentleman who had visited them. The sick stranger, who had eaten nothing for the last three days, with the excep- tion of a fragment of a penny roll, gladly and gratefully said he would. The cup of coiFee and slice of bread were brought to him : it need not be added how great was the zest with which he partook of them. The other then inquired, whether there was anything else he could do for him. A STRANGER. 257 " Nothing," was the answer. " If you feel worse in the course of the night, will you call ? " "I will." " Then good night." " Good night." CHAPTER XIY. Kindly feelings of the poor towards each other — A father's feelings — Mr. Freeling and a medical friend revisit the family introduced in the previous chapter — Their dying daughter — The stranger alluded to in the last chapter — A scene of suffering. It is pleasing to reflect on the kindly feelings which the poor thus display towards each other. They cheerfully share whatever they possess with their fellow-unfortunates, even though the giver may himself be suffering at the moment the pangs of hunger. Little do the aristocratic or fashionable part of the community know what friendly emotions glow towards others in similar circumstances, in the bosoms of those whose per- sons are clothed in rags, and in whose existence the enjoyment of an ample meal, even of the SYMPATHY OF THE POOR. 259 homeliest kind, constitutes an era. Far more of that humanity and kindliness which ennoble and adorn our species, is to be found in the cellars and garrets of Drury Lane or Bethnal Green, than in the magnificent mansions which rear their heads in Berkeley or Belgrave Square. And wherever there is heart, there will always be happiness. In many a breast which never knew any better covering than that afforded by tattered clothes of the coarsest material, there dwell a much greater amount and far higher order of bliss, than tenant the aristocratic bosom which is encased in silks and satins. It is not in the outward appearance, that we are to seek for the evi- dence of human happiness. The great Author of our being has mercifully made our happiness here, to consist immeasurably more in the habitual state of the heart, than in any of the outward accidents of life. The assistance which Mr. Freeling had given, on the previous night, to the family referred to 260 A father's feelings. in the last chapter, being only, as there men- tioned, of such amount as would suffice until the following day ; and he, in consequence of numerous engagements which required the previous attention of his medical friend, not be- ing able to fulfil his promise of another visit until late in the afternoon, the little provisions they had been able to procure were all gone, and the children began to cry for food. Few, if any — it is to be hoped none — of those who peruse these lines, know what it is to have seen their children crying for food, while with- out the means of administering to the neces- sities of the young famishing creatures. It must be a painful sight. It were impossible to imagine anything that could inflict a deeper pang on the parental heart. To suffer hunger one's self — painful as real hunger is — may be borne ; but, to hear the cries of one's innocent offspring for something to eat, and not to have anything to give them, is beyond endurance. It was too much for the feelings of the father A father's feelings. 261 of this family. Leaving the poor mother — to use his own homely, but expressive phraseology — " in the head of the children," he v^^ent out. To do what ? To try to get some provisions for them ? No ; he had given over all idea of that. He had already exhausted all his ingenuity in the attempt to procure employment, or any temporary supply for the wants of his family. Why then go out ? Because — and let the author here repeat what he has before remarked, that he is drawing no imaginary picture — because the cries of his children for food were too much for his feelings. He quitted the house, that he' might be beyond the reach of their voice. Just as he had got to the outside, he was met by Mr. Freeling and his medical friend. " I am sorry," remarked Mr. Freeling, " that I have not been able to call on you earlier : the cause of my being so late is, that my medical friend had other previous appointments, too urgent to be postponed for an hour. How is your daughter ? " 262 A father's feelings. " She is much in the same state, sir, as you saw her yesterday." " And where are you going just now?" in- quired Mr. Freeling. " I'll go back with you, sir, if you please." " That is not necessary, if you were going on any business of importance," observed Mr. Free- ling. " No, sir, I was not going on any particular business." " Were you going out with a view of doing something for your family ? " " No, sir, I was not." " You are sure ? " " Quite sure, sir." " Because if you were, you had better not go back with us. We can go up-stairs our- selves." " No, sir, I was not. I was only going out " — here his feelings quite overcame him — " that I might be out of the hearing of the cries of my children." A father's feelings. 26S Both Mr. Freeling and his medical friend were deeply touched by this brief sentence. They concurred in saying, that no representa- tion of extreme distress, short and simple as the sentence was, ever appeared to them so full of expression. An hour's detail of the wretched- ness of the poor man's family, could not have conveyed a better idea of the extremity of that wretchedness. All three then went up-stairs. The medical gentleman saw the dying daughter. The image of death was, indeed, so legibly impressed on her pale, emaciated countenance, that it needed neither medical skill, nor the putting of any questions to her as to the symptoms of her malady, to lead to the conclusion that she was on the verge of the grave. The physician asked for a pen and ink to write some prescription — not in the vain hope of assisting in her recovery, but with the view of lessening the pain caused by her fever and almost unintermitting cough, and of otherwise 26if A DYING DAUGHTER. smoothing, as far as might be, the few remain- ing stages of her journey to the tomb. There was neither pen, ink, nor paper, in the desolate abode. " But, sir," said the father of the family, " I will run out and fetch them for you." " Oh, no," replied the medical man, drawing out a letter from his pocket, and tearing off a portion of the sheet on which there was no writing, " I will make this do." He had pre- viously had a pencil in his hand. " The stranger in the next room has a pen and ink," suggested the mother. " Oh, ay, so he has," remarked the father ; and he hurried into the adjoining apartment to procure the articles. These being brought, the medical gentleman wrote the prescription. While in the act of doing so, Mr. Freeling inquired who the inmate of the adjoining room was. " That we do not know, sir," replied the mother of the family. THE STRANGER BEFORE ALLUDED TO. 265 " Do you know nothing at all of him ?" " Nothing beyond this — that he came about ten weeks ago, in a state of great destitution, and has very rarely quitted his bed during the day, but has been in the habit of going out for an hour or two after dark." " Do you know his name ? " " We do not, sir; he is very reserved, rarely speaking to us, except in answer to any question put to him. But we are sure he has been in better circumstances : there was something very genteel about his manner when he first came." *' Do you think he would be willing to see* me ? " inquired Mr. Freeling. " I do not know, sir ; but he has great need of the doctor, for he has been verv ill for the last few days." " You had better step in and see him," sug- gested Mr. Freeling, addressing himself to his medical friend. The other at once assented, Mr. Freeling remaining to converse with the dying girl on VOL. III. N 266 A SCENE OF SUFFERING. subjects connected with that eternal world into which she was about to be ushered. The medical gentleman accordingly entered the apartment in which the sick stranger was lying ; and, accustomed though he was, like all physicians and surgeons practising in poor neighbourhoods, to witness scenes of destitu- tion and misery of which the bulk of mankind have no conception, he had never seen anything equal to what he now beheld. The place had a most dismal, as well as destitute, appearance. The window was not large ; while fronting, and within two yards of it, there was a damp, gloomy wall, belonging to an adjoining house. Little light, therefore, could, under any circum- stances, be admitted into this hole — for it de- served no better name — but that little was, on this occasion, rendered, by accidental circumstances, still less. In the first place, there was not a whole pane of glass in the window. Some of the broken panes were covered over with patches of brown paper; and a few rags had A SCENE OF SUFFERING. 267 been stuffed in the others. Then, again, this particular day not only happened to be one of rain and wind, but it had rained and blown a strong cold gale all the previous night and that morning. The consequence was, that the paper-tinkering had been broken, and the rags which were intended to keep out the wind and rain at other places, were, in every instance with one exception, blown inside. Thus ex- posed to the wind and rain — for the tenant of the place was too enfeebled to sit up in his bed, far less to rise and attempt re-stopping up the holes — the latter was, as a matter of course, blown into the miserable apartment in copious quantities. The place on which the sick man lay, without any elevation from the floor at all, and without anything but a quantity of carpen- ters' shavings beneath him and an old piece of carpet and a fragment of a blanket above him ; this place was close to the wall, and within two or three feet of the window. The wall was damp at any time, but was doubly so at the present 268 A SCENE OF SUFFERING. time, owing to the recent heavy rains, blown about as these had been in all parts adjacent to the window. The ceiling was broken, and the walls had, everywhere, such a dilapidated appearance as to conjure up apprehensions of personal danger, from their falling about one's ears. The only piece of furniture in the place was a broken cupboard, without a single par- ticle of food of any description in it, or the slightest traces of there having been any at a recent date. The hearth was altogether fireless ; and, so far as appearances went, there was no reason to suppose there ever had been fuel in it. As the place was not only, as already remarked, dark at any time, but was doubly so at this time, because of tlie stormy state of the weather, while the shades of night were begin- ning to fall — the medical gentleman expressed a wish to have a lighted candle. There was none in the room ; there never had been any since its present occupier had entered it. Inquiry was made whether there was one in the next room, A SCENE OF SUFFERING. 269 where Mr. Freeling was now kneeling at the bedside of the dying girl. There was a small remnant of one there, in the purchase of which the last halfpenny the parents could com- mand had been expended the previous evening, lest their daughter should expire in the course of the night, and they be deprived of the melancholy gratification of witnessing her last look. She had spent a very bad night, and the candle was consequently burned to the socket. A mere fragment of the wick was all that remained. It was so small that it could neither give an adequate light, nor could it last mote than a minute or two at most. The medical gentleman therefore sent out for a candle with a penny of his own. On its being lighted, it was with great difficulty, in consequence of the gusts of wind which came whistling into the place through the broken panes, that it could be kept burning. The doctor sat down beside the sick man, on a piece of wood which hac been a chair, but, deprived of its back, had novT 270 A SCENE OF SUFFERING. more the appearance of a stool. He felt the suf- ferer's pulse, inspected his tongue, inquired into the circumstances under which his malady had first manifested itself, and into the nature of its present symptoms. He came to the conclusion, as the result of his inquiries and examinations, that the stranger was in a very critical state. He thought that, with proper care, the patient might possibly recover ; but felt certain that, had he been allowed to spend the coming night in the situation in which he then was, his case by the morrow would have been beyond the com- pass of human skill. The medical gentleman was struck with the intelligent answers which he received to all his questions, and with the intellectual expression of the sick man's coun- tenance, notwithstanding all the ravages which disease had made upon it. Anxious to learn something of the sufferer's history, he endea- voured to elicit the desired information by putting a few questions to him in the most delicate manner possible. A SCENE OF SUFFERING. 271 *' Have you been long in this cold and un- healthy place ? " " Not very long, sir, and yet much too long," was the answer. " Some months ?" " No, sir, not months ; but I have been here about ten weeks." " That is too long ; indeed, ten hours would be so ; for the place is not fit for a beast, far less for a human being, to live in." " I was well aware of that, sir, when I took it ; but I could not help myself." " Then you have been in better circumstances than your living in this place would imply," remarked the medical gentleman. " Ah, yes, sir ; and I have my own folly to blame for the great change which has taken place in my position in society. Bad company, sir, has been my ruin," " Oh, I see how it is ; you have been led away, by acquaintances, to the gambling-table." " No, sir ; that is not it. I never was in a 27'2 A SCENE OF SUFFERING. gambling-house in my life ; but I have been led away by my companions to houses which, if habitually frequented, are nearly, in the long run, as ruinous in their tendency. I mean public-houses." "Those places are bad, certainly. I have known many a young man of great promise, whose prospects in life have been blasted for ever by habitually visiting public-houses. Had you no friend to point out to you the peril of frequenting those places, and to try to dissuade you from associating with improper persons ? " " I had, sir ; I had several friends, but one in particular, who earnestly entreated me to guard against entering places where habits of inebriety and indolence were so generally formed; and who also warned me against associating with unprincipled men. But" "You disregarded their advice," said the medical gentleman, interrupting his patient. " I did, sir, unhappily ; and you now see me reaping the reward of my folly." A SCEiNE OF SUFFERING. 273 Here the unfortunate man put his hand to his forehead, which he pressed with great force. A pause of some seconds ensued. " Do any of your friends know of your present position ? " inquired the doctor. *' I hardly know, sir, if I have any friends, in the proper acceptation of the word — ahve. Of this I am certain, that he who was emphatically and especially my friend is dead." " Well, but there are some of your acquaint- ances alive ; and surely no one who knew you before could be aware of your present situation without wishing to assist you." " My acquaintances were chiefly, almost exclusively, literary men ; and they, as a class, are not remarkable for their disposition to assist one another in the hour of need." " May I take the liberty of asking whether you yourself are a literary man?" said the medical gentleman. " I was a literary man ; I am nothing now," was the reply. n2 274 A DISCOVERY. The other now felt a still deeper interest than before in his unknown patient. "I would not wish to ask any question that might hurt your feelings ; but, if you would" — Before the sentence was concluded, Mr. Free- ling entered the room. His friend did not resume the question he was in the act of putting, but remarked that he (meaning the sick person) was very ill. " I'm sorry to hear it," remarked Mr. Free- ling. " Have you been long ill ? " he inquired in kindly accents, turning to the stranger. And, as he spoke, he took the candle from the hand of his friend, and looked in the sufferer's face. The latter gazed for a moment or two, with an indescribable look, on the countenance of Mr. Freeling, and then buried his face in the tattered blanket which covered him. , " Do you feel worse ?" inquired the medical gentleman. " No, sir," replied the patient, in accents A DISCOVERY. 275 which expressed the tumultuous emotions which agitated his bosom. " No, sir ; that is not it." Again he looked at Mr. Freeling, and again he covered his face with the blanket. "Do you know me?" inquired Mr. FreeJing, surprised at the eagerness of his gaze. " I think I do— Mr. Freeling ? " Both gentlemen were struck with astonish- ment at the recognition. " I have no recollection of having seen you before," remarked Mr. Freeling. "We have met in Mr. Lovegood's house," said the other. Mr. Freeling looked in the sick man's face as he spoke, to see if he could recognise him ; but he could not. " I do not remember to have ever seen you before," repeated Mr. Freeling. "I am not surprised at that ; I am so altered." " How long ago may it be since we met ?" " Not eighteen months." 276 A DISCOVERY. " Am I," said Mr. Freeling, after a moment's hesitation, and as he caught another glimpse of the sufferer's face ; " am I speaking to Mr. Jenkins ? " " You are." The discovery greatly shocked Mr. Freeling. He was pained beyond expression at seeing, in so deplorable a condition, one whom he had repeatedly met with before, and in whose wel- fare he had taken a deep interest, because he had so often heard his friend Mr. Lovegood express great anxiety on his account. After a momentary pause, occasioned by the confusion consequent on so unexpected a dis- covery, Mr. Freeling took Joseph's hand, now little better than skin and bone, in his own, and expressed the regret he felt at finding him so painfully circumstanced. The remainder of the affecting interview, we will not attempt to de- scribe. Suffice it to say, that both Mr. Free- ling and his medical friend now took a special interest in Joseph. He was not in a condition A DISCOVERY. ^77 to be that night removed to another place ; but a person was immediately got to wait on him during the night. A fire was lighted in the room ; a board was put up in the window, to prevent the entrance of farther rain or cold ; blankets and a pillow were procured ; and such little luxuries as were suitable to one in his situation were brought to him. The medical gentleman, after prescribing certain medicines for Joseph, was obliged to leave, for a short time, to see other patients. Mr. Freeling, in the meantime, remained with Joseph; the latter communicating to him the painful par- ticulars of his recent unfortunate history. In a few hours the medical man returned, and already discovered symptoms of a decided improvement in the state of Joseph's health. Mr. Freeling and hrs medical friend then quitted Joseph's apartment for the night. Be- fore leaving the house, they administered to the necessities of the family so often already refer-* red to, living on the same floor with him. The ^•S A DISCOVERY. daughter was evidently rapidly approaching her end; but the medical gentleman thought it probable that she would survive for at least some days to come. CHAPTER XV. Death of the girl referred to in the previous chapter—Jo- seph's gradual recovery — Becomes a changed man. At an early hour on the following morning, Mr. Freeling and his medical friend called to inquire both for Joseph and the dying gid. They found the latter dead : she had expired about four in the morning, rejoicing in the hope of a happy hereafter, and uttering, as long as she was able to articulate, expressions of thank- fulness to the Association through whose instru- mentality she had been brought to a knowledge of the truth. The parents were wholly resigned to the bereavement they had sustained. Poor and destitute as they were, they now felt, 280 JOSEPH BEGINS TO RECOVER. through the power of religious consolation, far more tranquil and happy in their minds than they had ever felt before. Joseph, through the unremitting attentions paid to him by the nurse, was found to be very considerably better. All danger, indeed, with proper care, was now past. It was not so much medicine that he needed, as warmth, comfort, and suitable food. Every attention continued to be paid him, and in the course of two days he had so far recovered as to be fit to be removed to other and more comfortable lodg- ings, which Mr, Freeling had provided for him. What added to the grace of Mr. Freeling's benevolence was, that nothing that he did for Joseph appeared to be done as if it were an act of charity. He gave Joseph two sove- reigns wherewith to pay his lodgings, and pro- cure any trifling articles ; mentioning, that Joseph could repay him when he was again in circumstances to do so. He also sent him his own tailor, to furnish him with whatever cloth- JOSEPH CONTINUES TO RECOVER. ^81 ing he might require; adding, that he would be security for Joseph's duly paying the amount of the bill. As Joseph progressed towards convalescence, his mind was unceasingly occupied with the wonderful interposition which had been made on his behalf. A few hours more, and he would have been bevond the reach of medical skill. His own judgment fully assented to the truth of what Mr. Freehng earnestly sought to im- press on him — namely, that the hand of Provi- dence had been most clearly put forth for his deliverance from the grave. Mr. Freeling en- treated him to lose sight of the instrumentality through which he had been rescued from death, and to give to Him who reigns on earth as well as in heaven, the gratitude due for so wondrous an interposition. Joseph's heart, as well as his judgment, responded to this. His mind was now occupied with religious considerations, to the exclusion of all others. The recollection of religious truths which had repeatedly fallen 2S2 BECOMES A CHANGED MAN. from Mr. Lovegood's lips, and which had ever since been absent from his mind, now revived with a marvellous vividness and power. On these things Joseph reflected and pondered, until his mind experienced a thorough change. He now became a believer in Christianity with his heart, as he had, for some time past, given the assent of his judgment to the justice of its claims to the character of a divine revelation. He was struck with the difference there is between the two kinds of belief; the one was cold, cheerless, inoperative ; the other filled his mind with unspeakable joy, and produced an entire change in his conduct. CHAPTER XVI. Something retrospective — Joseph's recovery — Joins a Chris- tian congregation — His happy frame of mind — Obtains a situation — Marries — Becomes a partner — The conclusion. Before proceeding farther with Joseph's his- tory, we must go back, for a few moments, to that dark and eventful portion of it in which he met with his matrimonial disappointment. We followed him to the door of his landlady's house in the alley leading from Drury Lane, and there lost sight of him. When he reached Drury Lane, he hesitated, for a moment, as to which way he should go ; for he had no definite place in his view, nor any intelligible reason for quitting his lodgings, other than that he fancied that the landlady or somebody else in the house might possibly be aware of the mortifying circum- ^84 SOMETHING RETROSPECTIVE. stance which had occurred. It is curious how we are always apt to imagine, whenever an incident of an unpleasant nature occurs to us, that it will be sure to be known to others, even though a moment's consideration would satisfy us that, if we only kept our own secrets, nobody else could possibly learn them. The correspond- ence which had taken place between him and " Matilda" could never, in the nature of things, have been known to any one else, if he only chose to preserve the secret ; for " Matilda " could not divulge it without making herself quite as ridiculous as Joseph. Even from her husband, she would be careful to preserve that correspondence a profound secret ; for if he once knew^ that she had had recourse to such an expedient, it must lower her so much in his estimation as that he would never afterwards be able to treat her with any measure of respect. Joseph, however, never thought of taking this view of the subject, obvious though it was. He took it for granted, SOMETHING RETROSPECTIVE. 2S5 in the excitement of the moment, that everybody who knew him would know what had occurred. Under this impression, therefore, he hastily tied up a few tattered articles of clothing in a pocket handkerchief, hurried down-stairs, paid his landlady, and rushed out of the house and out of the alley — literally not knowing where he meant to go. On reaching Drury Lane, as already mentioned, he hesitated, for a moment, as to what direction he should take, and then proceeded towards Holborn. On reaching it, he was again as bewildered as before, as to whether he should proceed in an eastward or* westward course, or whether he ought not to cross over to Museum Street. He decided on the latter direction, though why he did so he could not tell. He then turned off at Great Russell Street towards Tottenham Court Road, and thence loiteringly proceeded in the direc- tion of the New Road. On reaching the latter place, he took the road leading to Camden Town ; still not knowing where he was going, or why -2S6 SOMETHING RETROSPECTIVE. he was taking that particular direction. He was, indeed, all this time in a state of mind bordering on phrenzy. On reaching High Street, Camden Town, he turned back, taking the road which leads to Seymour Street, Euston Square. In that neighbourhood he went into a public-house, and ordered a pint of beer. There he remained for about two hours, when, it being time to shut up for the night, he was again obliged to betake himself to the streets. It is curious that, all this time, he never thought of inquiring for new lodgings, not even for the night. He walked about in that neigh- bourhood until two in the morning, when a policeman came up to him, and, not receiving satisfactory answers to his questions, took him to the station-house. The policeman's opinion was not that he had committed any crime, but that he was either so far affected in his mind as to be incapable of taking care of himself, or that he meditated suicide. In the morning, however, having become more com- SOMETHING RETROSPECTIVE. 287 posed, the inspector discharged him without bringing him before the magistrate at Hat ton Garden Office. This was very fortunate for Joseph ; for, had he been brought there, it is probable some of the reporters attending for morning papers there, would have known him. On being let out of the station-house in tlie morning, he proceeded in the direction of Gray's Inn Road, where he entered a coffee- house, and had some refreshment. There he remained for three hours ; and on leaving, he took the direction of Holborn. On passing one of the densely populated alleys opposite Gray's Inn, it occurred to him, that not only must lodgings be cheap in such a neighbourhood, but that there he would run no risk of ever being discovered by any one who knew him. All hopes of recovering his lost position in society, or even of earning for himself the hum- blest subsistence, had now entirely vanished from his mind. When he entered the miserable place in which he was so providentially dis- 288 SOMETHING RETROSPECTIVE. covered by Mr. Freeling, it was with the im- pression that there he should die. Not that he wished to die, but that he deemed death ine- vitable. Had he, indeed, desired death, he would before now have had recourse to suicide ; but his mind was haunted with such terrible apprehensions of a future state, knowing, as he did, that he was not a practical believer in Chris- tianity, as caused him to contemplate death with dread dismay. The reader will picture to himself what must have been the misery of a man whose mind was thus exercised, while liis body was the subject of physical destitution and of great debility. What, above all, must have been the utter wretchedness of his con- dition at the time Mr. Freeling and his medical friend first met with him ! Over and above the misery consequent on being confined to such a bed, and in such a place, he had, for the last few days, experienced the utmost horror of mind con- sequent on a conviction that he was on the verge of the grave, without feeling prepared for it. And Joseph's recovery. 289 but, as before mentioned, for the providential interposition on his behalf, he could not have survived many days. We now return to Joseph, where we left him in the comfortable lodgings provided for him by Mr. Freeling. He was now so far recovered as to be able to walk about his room for two or three hours at a time. In a fortnight more his health was sufficiently restored to allow of his going out when the weather was fine. Every day, and every hour of the day, during the pro- gress of his recovery, was his mind filled with gratitude and wonder, as he looked back on the singular circumstances under which he had been snatched from the grave. And the more he thought on the subject, the deeper did he feel the obhgations under which he lay, to con- secrate the remainder of his life to the service of Him who had interposed, in so wonderful a manner, on his behalf. As the first step towards this, he resolved to connect himself with a Christian congregation ; first in the capacity of VOL. IIT, O 290 JOINS A CHRISTIAN CONGREGATION. hearer, and afterwards, as soon as circumstances would admit, in that of a member. In accord- ance with this resolution, the very first Sabbath day that his medical adviser thought the state of his health would permit of the step, he at- tended a place of worship. It need not be remarked that, with his altered views and re- newed mind, that place of worship was one in which evangelical doctrines were inculcated. As he crossed the threshold of the sanctuary, the recollection of the long interval — an interval of ten years — which had elapsed since he had before been in the house of God, came forcibly across his mind ; and as he reflected on the circumstance, the sacrifice of a grateful heart that he was once more privileged to enter it, ascended upwards to the sanctuary above. As each successive portion of the service came and passed, he thought of the difference in the state of mind with which he now listened to, or took part in, it, compared with the state of his mind when attending a place of worship ten years HIS HAPPY FRAME OF MIND. 291 before. Everything was new to him ; he felt as if he were in another world. Passages of Scripture which had formerly fallen listlessly on his ear, were now clothed with a meaning, importance, and power, which he felt it impos- sible to describe. Formerl}'' he had felt no interest in the sermon ; now every word seemed as if it had been intended exclusively for him- self. Formerly it had been a task, a punish- ment, to spend two hours in a place of worship ; now it was an unspeakable delight. But we must not enter into the subject re- ligiously, as this does not profess to be a reli- gious work. In the course of six weeks from the time of Joseph's first Sabbath out, he became a member of the church to which we refer. On his entire recovery, Mr. Freeling pro- cured for him a situation in a mercantile house of the highest respectability, at a salary of £150 a-year. This was not half so much as he had earned during the period he had held his newspa- per engagements; but with his altered views 292 PROCURES A SITUATION. and altered habits, £150 was worth four times the amount when living, as he himself expressed it, in his " thoughtless condition." Indeed, he did not spend on himself the half of this £150. He appropriated the larger portion of his first quarter's salary to the repayment of the small sums advanced to him by Mr. Freeling ; to the liquidation of the tailor's claims; and to the redemption of the trinkets which had belonged to his mother, which he had pledged to the pawnbroker. Nor were the family forgotten who had lived on the same miserable floor with him, in the alley leading out of Gray's Inn Lane, and through whose instrumentality Mr. Freeling and his medical friend had been first led to visit him. He was deeply sensible of the claims which they had on his purse, as well as on his grati- tude ; and he was not slow to aid them. He not only assisted them with his means, limited though they were, but in the course of a few weeks after the period to which we refer, he Joseph's gratitude. 293 succeeded in getting constant employment for the husband, at a much higher rate of wages than he had ever before received. The family a/ were by this means enabled to take two apart- ments in a respectable neighbourhood, instead of the miserable hole they occupied when he and they got acquainted. Of this family it is not necessary to say more, than that the father and mother by this time furnished, by their con- duct, the most conclusive evidence, so far as the mind of man is competent to form a judgment in such matters, of a completely spiritual change ; while the excellent example they s^t their children, and the great pains they took in instilling the principles of vital religion into their minds, justify the hope that they also are destined to embrace, if they have not already embraced, the same saving and sanctifying faith as that which is now the happiness of their parents. Joseph, for a little time, felt a certain degree of irksomeness in his new situation. Mercan- o 2 294f Joseph's new situation. tile matters appeared strange to him ; but all unpleasantness of feeling was got over in the space of a few months. The exceeding kind- ness of those above him, and especially of the most active partner in the firm, greatly con- duced to this result. That partner not only, when in the counting-house, treated Joseph as if on a footing of perfect equality with him, but often invited him to partake of the hospi- talities of his table. Nor was this all ; all the family treated Joseph with the greatest respect, and evinced a decided partiality for his com- pany. This was not to be wondered at ; for his manners, which, as remarked in the first chapter of the first volume, were naturally pleasing, had been made much more so by the purifying and amiable tendencies of the Chris- tian faith. He possessed great conversational powers, and his personal appearance was pre- possessing. If to these qualities, personal and mental, be superadded his superior intellectual acquirements, need we be surprised that the eldest AN ATTACHMENT. ^5 daughter of his employer and friend — she being a young woman of religious principles, and pas- sionately fond of literary pursuits — formed an ardent attachment to him. His only apprehen- sion was, that the young lady's parents might deem it presumption in him, considering recent circumstances, to aspire to her hand. He expressed his fears. She assured him they were groundless. " Are you certain ? " he eagerly asked, afraid lest she should only be fondly inferring the feelings of her parents from her own. " I am quite sure, Joseph." ** I am afraid you are only hoping, or per- suading yourself, they will concur in our union." ** Oh, no, it is not hope or belief only ; it is certainty." " Have you expressly asked their consent ? " " T have." " And have they given it ?" " They have." 296 AN ATTACHMENT. "And may I formally venture to ask you of them?" " You may, whenever convenient to yourself, w^ith the certainty of receiving the most cordial concurrence of both to our union." Joseph, that very evening, intimated his inten- tions respecting their daughter to the parents. The result was as he had been led to expect. They severally expressed their perfect concur- rence in the proposed union of their daughter with Joseph ; adding the expression of a hope, that they would find the connexion productive of the greatest mutual happiness. " Allow me farther to say," remarked the father, " that whatever we can do to conduce to that desirable end, will be done." It were impossible to give any idea of the joy which the assurance of the entire concur- rence of the parents with his proposed marriage with their daughter, afforded to the mind of Joseph. It is unnecessary to add that, all his appre- JOSEPH MARRIES. 297 hensions being thus found to be groundless, he expressed to his bride-elect his wish that their marriage should take place as soon as might be agreeable to her. To this wish she returned a ready response ; for it was one which she equally felt with himself. In a few weeks more, Joseph was a married man, receiving with his wife, not only virtue and beauty, but a handsome sum of money. Need it be added that, after his wife's fortune came into his hands, one of the very first things he did was, to pay all his former debts, amounting to upwards of 400/. Most works of the nature of the present, end with the marriage of the hero. We shall not deviate, to any great extent, from the orthodox rule. The only farther demand we shall make on our readers' attention will be, to accompany us through two pages more. Soon after his marriage, Joseph was received as a partner into the firm ; one of the other two partners, in addition to his father-in-law, having retired ^98 BECOMES A PARTNER. from business. The liouscj in a few months more, opened up a branch establishment in one of the large manufacturing towns, the entire management of which establishment was con- fided to Joseph. And he having devoted his atten- tion to mercantile matters ever since he had been connected with them, and all his transactions being guided by strictly religious principles, the branch business soon became one of great profit, and is still continuing to flourish under his auspices. Can it be necessary to add that, with the altered views he now entertained, it was his earnest and unceasing desire to undo, as far as he could, the injury to morals and vital reli- gion which he had done to both during the thoughtless period of his life. He felt that, in this respect, a weighty responsibility rested on him. He accordingly resolved to devote whatever spare time he could command — and he contrives to command a great deal — to the promotion of pious and benevolent objects. Every religious HIS HAPPINESS. 299 and charitable institution in the place has, ever since his settlement in it, found in him a zeal- ous supporter. And in his conversation with those whom he meets with in the intercourse of private life, as well as at public meetings held for religious purposes, he dwells emphatic- ally on the wondrous exhibition of divine sovereignt}^ made in the change which his views have undergone. He not only contrasts his bright and blessed prospects in reference to the future, with his gloomy forebodings and awful apprehensions before experiencing that change, but expatiates with rapture on tke advantages, even in a temporal sense, which he has derived from his transformation of charac- ter. His mind, amid all the changes of life, is composed and peaceful. All is sunshine around him. He could not before have believed it possible, that so much happiness as he enjoys could be possessed on earth. If, as was remarked in a previous chapter, the inscription on his fore- head oughtj while living in his unrenewed 300 HIS HAPPINESS. condition, to have been — " Of all men the most miserable;" it ought now to be — "Religion's ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace." THE END. 