NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. BY MES. ALEXANDER ERASER, THOSE WHOM GOD HATH JOIKED TOGETHER LET KO MAN PUT ASUNDER." HE morning of an autumnal day. Not in the bright and sunny South, with a turquoise sky above, with perpetual bloom to feast the eye, and " odours from Paradise" in the soft lam- bent air. VOL. 1. J 2 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. Nor amidst spreading ancestral trees, standing in friendly clumps, wreathing their giant forms and arms closely to- gether ; nor amongst lovely flower-bounded lanes and grassy dells, with the November sunshine slanting athwart the branches overhead, tinging all around with a deep and golden gleam, turning the variegated foliage of red and green and brown into rich mellow burnished shades, that seem all aglow and a-fire; falling upon sheaves of yellow ripe-eared corn; kissing the ruddy, luscious cheeks of the orchard fruit; shedding its genial beams on the distant undulating landscape, and deluding us into the belief that the glorious summer is still lingering with us, loth to leave the earth, whom its presence makes so fair. But an autumnal morning in London. Bitter as the blasts of adversity : cold as the hard world's sympathy. No matter where the eye looked, not a speck of blue was discernible in the heavens; nothing but big sullen banks of heavy opaque clouds, with but a few sickly glimmers of sunlight struggling through the misty haze, adding, by their very unsuccessful efforts at eman- cipation, a duller and greyer tint, if pos- sible, to everything. Moisture was the prevailing characteristic of the temperature. Not honest rain-drops, pattering down defiantly and boldly, but a sneaky, pitiful sort of Scotch mist, more felt than seen, exuding upon the irregular roof-tops, im- parting a greasy appearance to the leads and slates, turning the mire of the roadway into a slushy liquid, resembling shoe- blacking, trickling sluggishly down area railings, and rendering the pavement phy- sically dangerous. 1—2 4 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. Very few pedestrians w^ere to be seen,, however, voluntarily exposing themselves to the cold and damp that were part and parcel of the inclement weather; and the few that icere visible consisted chiefly of that class stigmatized very justly as the " great unwashed :" coal-heavers, sweeps with ebon physiognomies, navvies, and such like, were loafing about, all more or less with grimy, ill-looking visages, and re- markably unpleasant exteriors. The dwellings on either side of the street bore upon them a corresponding stamp; consisting of poverty-stricken houses, with a patch of black clay in front, enclosed by dilapidated railings, and of which " chick- weed" was the sole produce and adorn- ment. The locality in question was, in fact, one of the lowest and most disreputable suburbs. WHOM GOD HATH JOINED. of the metropolis. A dangerous quarter, especially at dusk, within which poverty and crime herded familiarly together, and huddled closely and lovingly wdth squalor and rags, rearing their Hydra heads an- tagonistically against all that savoured of affluence or respectability; a quarter in- fested wdth noisome human vermin, in the shape of night-birds, pickpockets, and out- casts ; and owning, as its chief aristocracy, unshorn, unkempt Hebrews, itinerant vendors of periwinkles and cowheel; cats'- meat men, and elderly females with for- midable biceps and weather-battered faces, ilili gently guarding their apple- stalls against the impudent depredations of myriads of street arabs, the incorrigible " gamins" that sloped in dozens about the place, in a perpetual state of revolutionism, crying, una voce, ^^ Liberie] Egalite, Frater- 6 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. 7iite!'' or collected in noisy belligerent masses on the adjacent door-steps. Now and then, even at that early hour of the day, for it was barely 9 a.m., out of the half-ajar door of a gin palace reeled the form of some woman, with dishevelled hair and torn garments, and strong pugi- listic tendencies visibly swelling in her breast, judging from the pugnacious glances she gave each passing individual, with a defiant imbecility in her look. Within the precincts of the " publics" glimpses of red could be caught, adorning the backs of the gallant defenders of our country, zealously performing their matutinal devotions to the Bacchanalian Deity. But, notwith- standing all the uninviting sights and sounds, and salient objections to the spot, the suburb yet boasted, in company with higher and sweller quarters^ refuges for " WHOM GOD HATH JOINED." the sick, the vicious, the homeless, and the devotee. It possessed its exact and proper quantum of hospitals, penitentiaries, re- formatories, workhouses, police stations,, and, above all other boons, a great big church — a church presenting no claim to any sort of architectural beauty, but standing out square and solid, and having as its sole ornament a painted window, whose subject was the parable of the " Good Samaritan," about the most appro- priate device it could have had, considering the evil locality on which it looked. Through the richly-stained panes, the day- light shone in dimly, leaving in almost undistinguishable gloom, the lengthy aisles and the surrounding pews. A few w^axen tapers faintly lit up the altar, the silver hair and white surplice of its officiat- 8 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. ing minister, and the rusty garments of the assisting clerk, and showed, sharply- defined against the pervading darkness of the body of the large building, a group of four persons standing before the altar rails. The responses were firmly uttered by the two principal actors in the scene, and the clergyman's solemn voice fell im- pressively and distinctly on the silent church : " Those whom God hath joined together let no man put asunder." Then came, in due course, the final blessing concluding the rites that bound indissolubly together two human beings, until death, ruthless, omnipotent, should come to divide them. The names of the wedded couple were duly registered, the customary fees bestowed, and ''Mark Leslie," as he had just subscribed himself, " WHOM GOD HATH JOINED." 9 clasped his bride passionately in his arms, and whispered loving words into her ear ; then saying, audibly, "At ten to-night, Lucy," he hurriedly traversed the aisle, and gaining the door was speedily lost to view. Meanwhile the trio that he had left behind him pursued their way more slowly, in an opposite direction to the one he had taken. A strange looking bridal party it was ! not only curious from the peculiarity of its proceedings, but from its incongruous appearance; there was an amount of in- congruity about it, in fact, that could not have failed to attract observation from the most indifferent and casual witness; but the principal " looker on" had been the minister, an aged man, wearily overworked in this densely crowded parish, that was rife with every species of vice, and requir- 10 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. ing for its amelioration infinite supervision^ spiritual ministration and the utmost zealous attention. A good old plodding man, labouring always indefatigably in the service of the Great Master, and unselfishly and unmur- muringly sacrificing every material comfort to the one desire and hope of his true Christianly life, that of furthering, to the utmost of his humble but honest ability, the welfare of immortal souls. He had long ago " renounced the devil and all his w^orks, the pomps and vanities of a wicked world, and all the sinful lusts of the flesh,'* for a pure life of devotion to Heaven and his sufi'ering fellow creatures : he was a holy man and no Pharisee ; thoroughly simple ; somewhat obtuse, perhaps ; and no scruti- nizer or meddler into things that concerned him not. "whom god hath joined." 11 The bridegroom was a mere stripling, over whose head not more than nineteen summers at most could have rolled their course, judging from the slight boyishness of his tall, lithe figure, and the clear fresh- ness of colouring that belongs especially to extreme youth. He bore upon him an unmistakeable impress of patrician breeding in the wonderful delicacy of his chiselled features, and the refinement that distin- guished his tout ensemble. The bride was his complete anti- thesis. In spite of the halo of romance and interest that might have naturally been inspired in a beholder by the pure white dress, and symbolical orange-blossoms that shone above her braids, and that enhanced her attractions, and "elevated" her ap- pearance as much as art could do, "pie- 12 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. beianism" stamped her undeniably for its own. And yet she could boast of a cer- tain gorgeousness of beauty that many a fair aristocrat w^ould have envied, and been willing to barter some of her sang azul for. A beauty that was almost too bright and blooming and bewildering, in fact, in its tints and sensuousness; resplendent in a warm " morbidezza" of colour and ruddy wealths of hair, gleaming bronze in the sunlight ; almond - shaped " love-darting " eyes, like those of an Eastern houri, but of a deep dark grey, thickly fringed on upper and lower lid by black curling lashes, and with green peculiar corusca- tions glancing rapidly every now and then across the large pupils; full "vermeil- tinctured" lips, beautifully curved and slightly drooping at the corners; a com- plexion that presented an exquisite mix- "whom god hath joined." 13 ture of snow wdtli Provence roses, save where a few freckles tanned the fair face, and marked a little strongly the formation of the cheek-bones, that were too promi- nent for preserving the exact lines of the oval countenance, and w^hich denoted her north-country origin. She had a well-developed form, too, in- clining to massiveness about the white throat and shoulders. Her hands, though tightly compressed in gloves, showed mas- culine dimensions; and her feet, in their new bronze chaussure, displayed far greater utility for exercise than Cendrillon pro- portions. . Her voice, and her constantly recurring lau£fh, as she conversed with her com- panions, sounded loud and rather discor- dant; and her accents Avould have grated on, and irritated any delicately-sensitive 14 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. ear, whilst there was a something inde- finable — a little " uncanny " perhaps, as the Scotch have it — in the broad smiles that parted her full lips, giving to view a set of large, strong, but very white teeth. Her male attendant was habited in rather a peculiar and original fashion for a ceremonial of matrimony. A shabby claret- coloured coat, profusely adorned by big brass buttons, which had evidently been intended primarily for an individual double his size, and wdiich must have been an investment from a slop-shop, where it had probably been left in pledge by an indigent flunkey, hung in loose unseemly folds upon his slim, figure, wiry as a ter- rier's. An almost napless hat, Avith a broad brim that was funnily erratic here and there, was drawn closely down over "WHOM GOD HATH JOINED." 15 his deeply-wrinkled forehead, and a dingy woollen comforter, or cache nez^ enveloped three or four times his lean and sallow neck, and concealed almost the whole of the lower portion of his physiognomy. What could be seen of his visage was unprepossessing to the highest degree, leaving no desire for further investigation of his features. Slyness and cunning twinkled in the eyes that age, or a per- petual state of intoxication, had divested of any pristine colour, leaving an ugly opaqueness about the ball, and a bleary and neutral tint about the pupils, in which, however, a close observer might have de- tected the same greenish lights now and then, as were discernible in the wondrous orbs of his daughter. But with this one strange resemblance about the eyes, all imaginable likeness 16 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. ceased entirely between them. He was as repulsive and ill-looking a specimen of the human race as she was the reverse. The woman who formed the trio, and whom the bride sometimes designated as " Granny," appeared to be a sort of dummy or nonentity. She wore an ap- pearance of dotage, but a dotage that was repellant to look upon, instead of present- ing an aspect of childishness or helpless- ness. As she hobbled along with difficulty, endeavouring to keep pace with the others, her head and hands seemed affected with a slight tremulous movement, suggestive of palsy, or an overdue affection for strong waters, like her son. Her eyes had a vacant wandering turn ; and her thin lips, tightly compressed together from paucity of teeth, showed a curious rapprochement of the olfactory organ with her pointed chin. ''whom god hath joined." 17 Walking leisurely along, the bride care- fully guarding her wedding garments from speck or soil, the trio at length turned into a low public-house, over Avhich huno; a flauntino; sio^nboard, inscribed in husre yellow letters, " The Lion and the Mouse." Above these w^ords there appeared in •coarse vivid tints an illustrative desio:n of the same, representing a small and meek- looking animal of a purely imaginative species, writhing wdthin the paw of a larger one, equally puzzling in definition, and in the portrayal of which conflict some amateur limner had evidently essayed to give to the w^orld at large, a mild and remarkably original specimen of his un- •cultured talents. The party on entering seated them- VOL. I. 2 18 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. selves, and the claret-clad man vociferated loudly for refreshment. "A pint of bitter," he called out, im- patiently, to the '' buxom party," who wa& busy as a bee amongst the shoals of drones who buzzed round the bar, over the foaming tankards of creamy porter and ale. ' ''Look sharp, girl!" he reiterated. "I am as dry as a bone after my morning's work; and a fine morning's work it ha& been too!" he chuckled, rubbing his meagre hands together, and winking slyly at his daughter as he emptied the draught at one pull. " This is poor stuff to wet one's throat with on such an occasion. Ain't you going to stand nothing, Lucy? I saw the fine gent slip some yellow shiners into your hand on leaving you. Fork 'em out, "whom god hath joiked." 19 lass, and don't be close-fisted! Why, damme, you must be liberal, like a real lady, now that you are one !" " Of course you saw the gold, Father ! Sure their glitter wasn't likely to escape your eyes! But my money is my own, and if I have married a ' fine gent ' to become a fine lady, it concerns only myself. It wont go far towards making you re- spectable — or honest even, I am afraid ! I am not a going to be bullied, I'll swear !" she added, in a dogged, sulky tone, while the grey eyes flashed up greenly, and the large white teeth were determinedly set together. " However, I don't wish a row to-day. Father, so call for what you want and I'll pay. Let us have gin, ' neat — what Granny likes, you know — and well drink Mr. Mark Leslie's health in it. Such a 2—3 20 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. nice, sweet spoken gentleman as lie is, and so good at book learning; but for all that I am the cleverer of the two, I'll warrant !'* and she laughed loudly. "And when is he coming for you? I am not near, as I knows of, in my ways; but I am a very poor man, working hard to get my daily bread, and hardly managing to keep myself in victuals at all," the old hypocrite whimpered out querulously, trying to force up a tear into his eyes, and entirely forgetting that his two companions were up to his tricks and shams. " It is a shame if I am to keep you any longer; but you'll give me somethink a week, wont you, dear ?" he coaxed in a wheedling voice, with avarice shining out of every feature of his face. He was a man that could hardly have resisted selling his soul for the sum of "whom god hath joined.'' 21 half-a-crown, if the would-be purchaser had held out the coin glitteringly and temptingly before him. Avariciousness and cunning were the component parts of his character. The avariciousness of a Jew^, the " cunning which is the usual sub- stitute that the really low and uneducated classes have for wisdom." "A small matter of ten bob a week, Lu ; a trifle, considering that you are that particular in your eating, turning up your nose at good meat, and fancying shrimps and cresses, and such like. No; I don't think I am asking too much — I don't indeed!" "Well, well. Father, I'll see about it; make your mind easy, and don't go a w^himpering and a fretting like an old woman. Why, even Granny isn't so stupid. Be a man and you'll earn something; but 22 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. you will always be a begging of others if you go on sbilly-slially, doing nothing but drink, drink ! And now listen to me : Mind YOU have somethino; decent for supper to-night, for Robert is coming." "Robert — Robert Minton! Are you gone crazy, girl? Do you forget already that this is your marriage-day? For shame, to see your old sweetheart when you should have thoughts for your husband only!" " Just hold your tongue, will you !" she snapped out so sharply and angrily that the man settled into silence at once. "Husbands be hanged, I say! Nothing nor nobody will ever come between Robert and me! Do you think, you foolish old man, that I care a rush for the whey-faced boy that has married me for my pretty looks? Come along, do, and don't stop " WHOM GOD HATH JOINED." 23 chattering liere about things that you un- derstand nothing about; and if you do, they don't concern you. Why, Father!'* and she burst into a hoarse merriment as she looked him impudently and jeeringly in the face, " I am sure the world must be coming to an end, when you^ above all people, try and come the respectable and virtuous dodo^e!" PART II. . "till death us do paet." " For the lips of a strange woman drop as an honey- comb, and her mouth is smoother than oil, but her end is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword." — Froverhs of Solomon. HE autumnal afternoon fully realized the dark promise of tlie morning, and afforded but a dreary look out to the occupants of a row of small-sized houses that presented a I'a^ade that was all vulgar stucco and bright green railings. They lay in an out-of-the-way and un- "till death us do part." 25 fashionable locality, somewhere in the vicinity of the New Road, and rejoiced m the mellifluous sounding appellation of " Mandeville Terrace," to which address the more aspiring of their proprietors affixed the imposing addition of '^ York Gate." At No. 8, with his face closely pressed up against the small square window-pane, stood an old gentleman of some three score years and ten; and whilst he stood there as immovable as though he were a statue, or in a photographic pose^ it could be seen at a glance that he was both aristocratic and pleasant looking in his green old. age, owning a pair of mild blue eyes, full of serenity, and a face replete with goodness ; with a fine expanse of brow that Lavater would have rejoiced in, and a mouth rife with an expression of amiability. He was 2d NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. apparently the sole and undisputed oc- cupant of the diminutive and somewhat dingy parlour to which the w^lndow apper- tained. His wife had been laid in the churchyard that was many a hundred mile distant from the metropolis, some dozen years and more, but he had remained in solitary blessedness, mostly for the sake of the all-absorbing affection he had for an only son, and partly from the fact that no " damsel withering on the stalk" had been thrown in his path possessing sufficient attraction, either personally or mentally, to induce him to launch the barque of life a second time on the ordinarily stormy waves of the matrimonial ocean. It was, however, no evil or unfortunate experience of marriage that had deterred him from reassuming the Benedict's yoke, for the dead partner of his bosom had been "till death us do part." 27 a pattern woman, a model to the femi- nine sex; a sensible, thrifty housewife, full of domestic virtues, rigid principles, and a fund of inexhaustible good temper, al- though she was perhaps somewhat humdrum in her ways, and sometimes provokingly wearisome in her clockwork punctuality and unflagging attention to the petty diurnal duties of homely life. She was, however, a woman who could scarcely have failed in her endeavours to render any man happy, or what would be a more appropriate term, " comfortable," provided always that she had been allowed to insure comfort to him in her own commonplace, matter-of-fact fashion, and provided also that he was of the genus homo who are not too exigeant in dispo- sition, inclined to cavil querulously at fidgety trivialities, and requiring some- 28 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. thing a little sparkling and spirituelle in the daily companion of their days. The poor deceased lady had had the tincommon luck in this world, where mar- riage is often the antipodes of Heaven, to pitch upon just the right man to suit her^ out of a host of aspirants to her favour, or to the beaux yeux de sa cassette^ for she had been a spinster of independent means, with sufficient in the funds to make her an heiress in a small way. She had sensibly selected the worthiest of her suitors, having, with the judgment of an experienced lapidary, discovered the real '' Jew's eye" amidst the meretricious mass of paste offered to her acceptance^ and she never regretted her choice, for her chosen spouse proved to be lenient to her shortcomings on the score of accomplish- ments, requiring only the qualities essential 29 to forming a true gentlewoman; and the pair glided on smoothly and glibly enough in connubial harness, never " kicking over the traces/' until it pleased Providence to sever them. After she had left his side for ever, instead of rushing with avidity into the pleasures of new-found freedom, and bachelor licence, he would stay at home, and catch himself recalling with emotion the plurality of virtues the lamented defunct liad possessed, and would find himself, from force of habit, occasionally listening for the well-known clicking of her knitting-needles — knitting having been an occupation in which she had delighted during her life- time. He missed the queries, reiterated each evening with little or no variance in their mode of fashioning, as to the welfare of his cattle, the sanitary condition and 30 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. growth of his potato and turnip crops, the flourishing state of his mangel-wurzel, the foaling of his mares, and the success of any new-fangled patents, in the shape of churns and other domestic utilities. For the lodger at No. 8, Mandeville Terrace, had, in the halcyon times gone by, been what is termed a gentleman- farmer, not exactly opulent, but decidedly well-to-do in the world. He had ventured upon the stream of speculation, not rashly and thoughtlessly, but quietly, with pru- dence presiding at the helm ; and specula- tion had turned out favourably, allowing him to indulge to a moderate extent in a long-standing hobby he had had for agricultural pursuits. Beechwood Grange was the name of the old place, half house, half cottage ornee, in which he had first seen the light, and "till death tjs do part." 31 to which he had taken his bride, and it was a spot to be justly proud of — a gem of prettiness, though its beauties were of a microscopical nature; but although the whole thing was tiny and slightly dollish, it was wonderfully well kept outwardly, and the interior arrangements corre- sponded in comfort. The house rejoiced in a small model farm, replete with all the modern inven- tions of the Eastern and Western hemi- spheres. Some that were as mysterious in principle as they were useless in trial; and others that worked admirably, saving an immensity of time, expense, and manual labour. The grounds were more shrubbed than wooded; but from them could be easily discerned, on a fine day, by the naked eye, the outline of the lovely Malvern Hills 32 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. rearing themselves against the clear bright sky. A shallow streamlet ran purling through the extremity of the grounds, and across it oaks, elms, and other forest trees, but all more or less saplings, waved their arms and nodded their heads familiarly to each other, in acknowledgment of each revivify- ing breeze. Down in the depths of the water any disciple of Izaac Walton would have found himself amply rewarded for his trouble, by heavy hauls of the smaller species of the finny tribe. A rough and rustic boat-house was erected at one end of the fairy bank, and a miniature craft, fit for the " Lady of the Lake," was moored close by. In winter time, Avhen the young trees that nodded and waved, grew leafless and gaunt-armed, casting queer shadows upon 33 the water — when depths and depths of white snow laid far out of sight all the exquisite floral ornaments of Mother Earth — when the hoar frost hung on each shrub like diamonds, and gave with a sharp crackle under the human footfall — when the temperature set in due north from the Arctic regions, as it were — then great fires blazed cheerily away, and Beechwood Grange '' within " became lively ^vith guests and Christmas festivities, and each comfortable nook and corner were reso- nant with ringing voices and merry laughter. But all this was now long gone by. The light of other days had faded; the tide of fortune had flowed in once plen- teously, but had ebbed away again. The gigantic " Steadfast " Bank sud- denly stopped payment, and whilst some VOL. T. 3 34 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. few were heavy losers by the crash, hun- dreds were irretrievably ruined. Amongst the former category, however, the Squire of Beechwood fortunately ranked. Almost in the twinkling of an eye, how- ever, he had turned from downright pros- perity, if not into absolute poverty, at any rate into a state bearing, in com- parison with his former life, a close resemblance to it. Still he had escaped with a small sum, sufficient to keep his head out of the water that had com- pletely engulphed scores of his fellow sufferers. Just twelve months after his wife's death, the house in which she had drawn her last breath was, with all its costly adjuncts, sold to the highest bidder ; and the widower, with a strangely wistful " TILL DEATH US DO PART." 35 look in his poor eyes, and a quiver upon his lip, bade a mournful farewell to the pleasant scenes that had known him in more prosperous hours, and, accompanied by his son, located himself in the dwelling where we find him. To a discontented and rebellious spirit, painful and irritating to excess would have been the wonderful contrast between the old life and the new one — between the well-remembered sunny aspect of the Grange, with all its elegances and super- fluities, and the miserable poky domicile that had everything so essentially vulgar and cockneyfied about it, with an aggra- vating apology for a garden in a few feet of London mud, stuck over primly and formally in staring semi -circles and straight lines, with half a dozen sickly, insipid Sweet- Williams, some atrociously 8—3 36 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. odoriferous Marigolds, and one or two flaunting Hollyhocks defiantly parading their garish hues on high. But the poor old gentleman possessed the attributes of the "noble army of martyrs" — patience and resignation to God's will were his chief characteristics. He had never been of a grumbling or mutinous turn, but rather of a religious disposition, and now he bowed himself meekly and uncomplainingly to the state of life to w^hich Heaven had called him. In the midst of his terribly statu-quo existence, he found, faute de niieux^ a mild sort of excitement and gratification in tend- ing and doctoring with infinite care the few unhealthy specimens of floriculture that struggled on for life within his circum- scribed parterre, and he felt an enlivenment during the solitary hours which his son's "till death us do part." 37 absence in the City entailed upon hiin, in the puny and rather spasmodical chirp of a pale, fluffy canary that perpetually molted in a bright brass cage near the window. On the particular afternoon in question,, his son's absence had evidently been pro- longed beyond the customary hour, judging by the quick searching glances that the mild blue eyes shot out into the dark prospect, as they peered just above the Avire blind, as though in quest of some one. At length hurried footsteps resounded on the narrow pavement, and nodding pleasantly to his father, the absentee entered the house. " You are late, my boy ! I have been watching for you, fearing something un- usual must have occurred to detain you so much beyond your time. What delayed you.'^ 38 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. A third party, had one been present, could scarcely have failed in noticing a vivid accession of colour that flamed up into the truant's cheek, as the question was put, although it was easy to perceive that there had been no ulterior motive in its asking, and that it scarcely even enforced a reply, for now that his son had returned safe and sound in limb, the old gentleman was experiencing no feeling in his mind but one of perfect contentment, and whilst he spoke he was occupied in leisurely draw- ing a WTapper over the brass birdcage, to insure comfort and cosiness to his feathered companion during his night's siesta. '• Very sorry to be so late. Father, but I had a little surplus work to get through to-day. Have you been alone all the time ?" " No, your uncle Gresham called and sat with me over an hour. By-the-bye, you know that girl whom you picked up insensible after her fall out of the cart ?" " Yes ! Father; ivhat of her?" was asked, breathlessly. " I fancied from your description of her, that she was too superior a person to be left to such worthless surroundings as you represented her people to be. Now, though I have not much, yet, God be thanked ! I have still enough money left, to do good in a small way. And thinking your uncle a shrewd sensible fellow, I commissioned him to make inquiries, deter- mining to find some lady friend who would take the girl into service, or get her em- ployed some way, to keep her out of harm; provided, of course, that the report was satis- factory ; to-day he brought me the result of his investigations, and from the very reliable sources from whence he derived his 40 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. information, I am inclined to think his- account a correct one." " Well, Father !" And the young fellow's eye lit up with the prospect of hearing that the being he so passionately loved was simply perfection — a modern Griselda, in fact — brimming over with every imaginable virtue, and, for the very first time in his life, an undutiful impatience rose up in his breast at " the dear old governor's habitua prosiness.'^ ^' Gresham says, she is lovely, but worth- less ! It appears that she earns a trifling stipend as a serio-comic vocalist at one of the minor and most disreputable music halls in Islington, * The Aspasian Pa- vilion;' and all her gains are spent on a great lazy rascal, who ought to have married her long ago to have made an honest woman of her. Your uncle saw " TILL DEATH US DO PART." 41 him by chance, and describes him as a showy, bold style of fellow, with a heavy beard. The other inmates of the house where the Wellands lodge, assert that the man and the girl have been together, off and on, for a couple of years. Have you ever seen him?" "Yes, Father; I really don't know," stammered the boy, incoherently. " A showy man, with a heavy beard — the same, my God! in whose arms I caught her but two days ago, and she swore to me that he was her brother!" he murmured to himself, with cold beads of perspiration starting on his brow, and his cheek of an ashen hue. A blow from a feather would have knocked him down as he tried to stand up and walk a few steps, but was forced to relinquish the attempt from sheer inability 42 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. to steady his trembling limbs; neither could he venture to articulate when the words seemed to be gurgling and dying away in his throat. By this time the old gentleman having arranged the covering of the cage satisfac- torily to himself, had hung it up, then re- adjusting his spectacles, he prepared to seat himself for his evening repast. Turning, he noted at a glance the strange drawn look of utter misery that was visible on every feature of the face he loved. At once paternal anxiety roused up visions of illness ! danger of all kinds threatening the object so dear to him, the only object for whose sake he prayed Heaven daily and nightly to spin out a little longer the span of his own existence — loomed before his alarmed imagination, and made him ex- claim, in nervous accent — "till death us do part." 43 '^Wliat is the matter! Are you ill?" "Nothing, sir; nothing!" But the words fell slowly and with some difficulty, and the languid tone gave a direct denial to his assertion. " Over tired ; or the weather, perhaps ! Do not alarm yourself so, Father. I'll go upstairs and lie down quietly a bit, and shall soon be myself again !" he added, calling up a ghost of a smile to his lip, and then dragging himself wearily up the stairs, he reached his room, and, locking the door, flung himself down to think. "To think!" a sad and dreary task at best, when "thoughts" in this world of woe so much oftener wear for ns a painful and ofttimes even an unbearable aspect, than a pleasant one. The bov tried to call his bewildered 44 KOT WHILE SHE LIVES. thoughts together, that he might reflect on the course of action he should pursue ; but in that moment of rough and rude awakening from his most delicious dream, revenge the fiercest upon her, hatred the most implacable towards his rival, were the two turbulent passions that tilled his breast, and yet "he that studieth revenge keepeth his own wounds green," and he felt that w^hat he wanted most of all in his first hour of desolation, was balm to heal his stricken soul, not caustic to irritate his wounds. He knew full well that all his hopes were bhghted almost ere they had blossomed ; that the flowers of his life were scattered away ruthlessly, before his hand had thoroughly grasped them ; that all faith in, and respect for human nature were blasted in his eyes " for ever." "? TILL DEATH US DO PART." 45 It was not likely in that bitter moment that he should believe that his sufFerino- o was but transitory after all; that "for ever" is a phrase often used, but rarely meant, seldom finding a genuine echo in the heart unless for a transient period; that it is ordinarily but an expression on the lips, or a chimera of a sick brain ; that, in fact, everything in this life, be it joy or sorrow, love, faith, revenge, or hatred, are but fleeting and passing, as the winged wind ; that nothing endures but for a season. All that he could realize was that his whole future was wrecked — stranded ir- remediably ; that nothing but immeasurable misery awaited him — misery either way — whether he was with her, knowing her to be utterly false ; misery without her, for he adored her madly still ! 46 ?^0T WHILE SHE LIVES. In spite of all — in the face of confidence and affection both betrayed and basely- outraged, and his honour arraigned — the very pangs of jealousy that seemed to be rending his soul in twain, were in them- selves sure and irrefragable proofs that his love for her still lived vigorously as ever ; he was convinced that as long as existence lasted, her loss would leave a horrible va- cuum in his heart that it would be im- possible for anyone on earth to fill up, for he worshipped her with the fierce unreasoning passion of youth ; and it would have seemed to him a desecration of his own feelings to imagine that that love w^as not love after all, but only the ephemera of an hour. That in fact what he doated on, was not " A^r," but a being of his own creation, clothed in the bright beauty that had 47 dazzled Mm, and made liim sacrifice all to make it his own. Oh ! how like cruel fiends those words "his o^vn," in conjunction with her, seemed to mock at him with their meanino^; to laugh him to scorn for his absurd credulity ! It was galling indeed to his pride to have been fooled so entirely — to have swallowed with avidity all her specious assurances, as though they had been an "honeycomb," but to find them "worm- wood" at the last — to have craved, yearned for tenderness from her, only to have met a more cruel thrust than that of a "two- edged sword." To have been rivalled by a low, unedu- cated ruffian, to whom she had assuredly all along belonged, whilst she was per- suading her " husband," her poor deluded 48 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. victim, by the power of her beauty and blandishments, to believe her true as steel, and pure as the undriven snow ! In one of Juvenal's Satires are found the words, " None become at once com- pletely vile;" but just as "men may rise on stepping-stones of their dead selves to higher things," so they often slip and slip, surely but slowly, down to the lowest depths. " She must be innately bad and base," he reflected; for, young as he was in worldly wisdom, he yet possessed sufficient ^ense to know that deliberate vice — vice perpetrated in cold blood — is neither a gourd nor a mushroom, springing up rapidly in the course of a few hours, to be •eradicated by a simple effort and destroyed entirely by a blow. It is rather a poisonous fungus, im- planted early in tlie heart, fostered in its growth and strength by that heart's own human tendency to evil, and requiring strenuous exertion and unlimited patience to pluck it out root by root; but a patience outlasting Penelope's — a patience rare and scarcely attainable, and that can best be exemplified by the old Arabian aphorism, " Be patient, and the mulberry-leaf will turn into satin !" " Can such falsity really exist ? or is it but a hideous nightmare after all?" he questioned himself. His uncle was a cynical man of the world, sceptical of goodness and worth. Could his judgment have been swayed by the fabrications of those, to whom a shilling was sufficient in- ducement to "speak," and whose natural bent was falsehood more than truth ? But no shadow of a loophole by which his VOL. I. 4 50 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. query might meet with contradiction pre- sented itself, and with his young heart swelling high under the sense of his bitter wrong, all that he longed for was to lie down and die ! After all, he was but nineteen years of age, and the fortitude and strength of manhood were terribly incomplete in his nature. He was trying to grapple with a grief, the magnitude of which would have overwhelmed many a man of riper age. Poor fellow ! he had let himself, with the folly and recklessness of an inexperienced swimmer, float carelessly down the river of life, and he had not even tried to evade, in his headlong career, any shoals that might endanger the passage. All of a sudden he had reached the tempestuous ocean, with breakers ahead of him, with "till death us do part." 51 the tide of fate running strongly against him, with huge waves of sorrow rising around him, and it was "too late" even to try and find a haven of safety. Ah! what had he done to be drifted into such a doom? There was nothing left for him now — no chance of rescue from the wreck of everything that could yield happiness to him upon this earth. " The miserable have no other medicine But only Hope." And even that Avas denied him at present. Hope, the "salve of life," which in most cases comes to lighten the gloom of a desponding heart ; for it is a merciful dispensation of Providence that in this world, " whose brightest visions of felicity prove to be but a shadow of a shade; whose past pleasures, whilst they feast memory, yet leave the heart aching with 4—2 LIBRARY ? ?Kiiiir-noi-rvf r\r ff I tkimC 52 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. a sense of their desertion ; and whose pre- sent enjoyments vanish and wither almost before they bloom;'' that the more en- during sentiment of " Hope" is given to keep up a sinking spirit. Do we not read that when Sin entered the bowers of Paradise, and the primal curse drove Adam and Eve from the garden of glowing delights, that it was " Hope," called by the ancients the off- spring of untarnished joys, who took up his abode with the wretched exiles of Eden, and preserved them from de- spair? But Hope only comes when the first fresh poignancy of grief has passed away, although the glimmer of its advent has unconsciously been the sole light that has saved many a human being from the crime of self-destruction. " TILL DEATH US DO PAllT." 53 A thought struck the suffering boy, and he started. He had married her under a feigned name ! Not from any premeditated de- ceit, or desire to play her false, but simply from a concatenation of circumstances. He had given her a noni de guerre on first acquaintance, just on the spur of the mo- ment, but with no shadow of an arriere pensee in doing so, and later he had lacked the courage to reveal the fraud; but his conscience had scarcely blamed the decep- tion, for his purpose towards her had ever been true and honest. Legally, then, he Avondered, would his secret marriage be invalid? and he free — free as the Avanton wind — released from the now loathsome bonds in which the words of a priest had a few hours before fettered him? But as he pondered 54 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. anxiously upon this, there came ringing through his brain, just like a dirge for the death of his momentary hope, the good old man's slow and solemn injunc- tion — '"' Those whom God hath joined to- gether let no man put asunder." Perhaps if he had been older, or harder, more a denizen of the world, those few words would have failed in producing the same effect upon him as they did noAV. But he was young, enthusiastic, reli- gious; no impulse to mock at them entered his mind ; but rather there came over him a sort of impetuous desire for self-sacrifice, sooner than that they should be treated as if unspoken, and their meaning hurled to the four winds, just for the sake of mere earthly feelings and wishes. ^'No!" he cried, fervently, throwing himself down on his knees; "she is my 55 wife in the sight of God, if not in the sight of men. Great Heaven ! that looked down on my vows, hear me whilst I swear that not while she lives shall word or act of mine sever the tie that binds us to- gether, ' for better, for worse' ! ' to love and to cherish' ! ' till death us do pari ! Oh, why^ why have you deceived me so, my darling ! my darling! — I, who would have loved and cherished you all my life !" The big tears rushed to his eyes again and again, in spite of his efforts to dash them away ; and just as if to add the last drop to his already overflowing cup of misery, cruel memory recalled with tenacious vividness the face of the woman he had so longed to clasp — the glorious tints of hair that had floated in ruddy luxuriance over his arms, and been pressed frantically in boyish fervour to his beating heart 56 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. and quivering lips — the strangely beautiful eyes — the ruby, enticing mouth, that had uttered that very day, oaths that he had deemed in all faith to be so loyal and so true ! " I will try and nerve myself to my fate, but I dare not look upon her again," he said at last resolutely ; and rising from his dejected attitude, he drew pen and ink to his side. " I will write and say I know all — that she and I can never, never meet again upon earth! And then good-bye to my miserable past — away into oblivion with everything ! Oblivion, indeed ! What a word. Can a convict ever find oblivion with the manacles tightly clasped on his limbs — with the loathsome chain clano^inof and dragging at his heels? Can the human breast rest in forgetfulness when everything around reminds it continually "till death us do part." 57 of what it has lost? And she was all to me! — brightness and sunshine, love and joy, all! — and the whole world will be a desert without her ! Poets may prate idly of a Lethean stream, but prose owns no such mythical remedy. Alas ! prose itself — real, downright prose — will, however, be the only cure for me. Thank God ! she knows me as 'Mark Leslie' only, and I shall be snared her tracino; me: to look i CD ' upon her again and then to part would be a thousand times worse than death. My poor old father! if you only knew all, I believe you would break your heart — how your son has disgraced himself, dishonoured the old name, and bound himself, hand and foot, to a common 'music-hall' singer! That were nothing if she was but honest, but oh, my God! a mere light o' love— - the worthless leman of a low-lived ruffian!" PART III. foiled! father. My life is cold, and dark, and dreary; It rains, and the wind is never weary. My thoughts still cling to the mouldering past, But the hopes of youth fall thick in the blast, And the days are dark and dreary !" Longjellow. HE autumnal evening had closed in earlier than the season of the year almost warranted. Night had "unfurled her sable wings," and closely enveloped the earth. London lay dark and dull, and dimly lighted, save in the lower quarters of 59 the town, where petty traders plied inces- santly and indefatigably on, far into the hours in which the richer portions of the working classes in the more fashionable localities sought either rest or amuse- ment. At the door of a small and shabby- looking house, situated in one of the back streets of Islington, stood David Welland. His well-worn coat, that had served him as a marriage garment in the morning, now shielded him, as effectually as its threadbare texture would permit of, from the keen blasts of wind that came howling and moaning up the dirty pavement. The same dingy comforter encircled his throat; but the napless hat, that had probably been carefully put by for another state cere- monial, was replaced by a woollen cap that was faded, and had long ago seen its palmy 60 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. days, but which, though guarding his head from cold, yet revealed far more conspicu- ously than its predecessor had done the workings of his countenance and the ex- pression of his eyes, as he scanned anxiously ?eacl) approaching figure in the street, and peered curiously into the face of each passer-by. In a room situated at the back of the house, at w^hose entrance Welland had evi- dently " mounted guard," a gas-jet sent down its yellow glare upon some fragments of food, not over recherche in quality, that remained in the blue earthenware dishes that still adorned the festive board. An empty pewter pot or two and a coarsely- painted tobacco-jar stood also on the deal table, on one end of which rested the slovenly-shod feet of a man who lounged negligently back in his chair. Through FOILED ! FATHER. 61 the atmosphere^ redolent of smoke, it could be distinguished that he was a man over whom some five and thirty years of a hard life had rolled. His almost herculean pro- portions, even in the half-reclining position he held, Avere such as to excite the utmost admiration and enthusiasm in the prize- ring, though in more refined circles, less bulkiness and more elegance would have been deemed very desirable. An immense breadth of chest showed up beneath the seedy brown velveteen coat, that was thrown open, displaying beneath it a coarse calico shirt, not over daintily white in hue, and with a pattern of large red horseshoes all over its surface; a sky-blue cravat, knotted loosely round his bull-neck, was passed through another horseshoe of red coral that glittered from under the hair of his beard. Trousers of a very large black 62 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. aiid white check, extravagantly pegtop, and a thick gilt watch-chain, with a bunch of showy pendants attached to it, completed his attire. He was a Vaurien A 1 — a gaol-bird — a "jack of all trades, and master of none ;" gaining his livelihood in any way that he could, and without being over scrupulous as to how, provided that the way re- quired for him no particular amount of mental or bodily exertion. Sometimes a bookmaker at Epsom or Ascot, or a promp- ter at some suburban theatre; a horse- dealer in a petty way ; a secretary to some Cold-Meat Association; an occasional specu- lator in rat-fights; and now and then even a temporary clerk at some church. He had a decent modicum of brain, which, if it had been properly cultivated, would have made him even a useful member of TOILED ! FATHER. 63 low life, instead of being what he was, a disgrace to the human species. But a foundling and a mudlark, in in- fancy and boyhood, uncared for, and left to go his own gait without let or hin- drance, riper years found him, as a matter of consequence, nothing but a thorough vagabond and a scamp. A showy-looking scamp he was too, with big curly rings of coal-black hair, evidently - iled and tended with care ; bold features, but regular enough in outline, with a sort of reckless dare-devil expression in the dark defiant eyes, that yet shone with a con- siderable sharpness and intelligence. There was an unpleasant look hovering over the lips, between which a long, coarse clay pipe rested, out of which, as he leant back in his seat, he amused himself by carelessly blow- ing upwards to the low ceiling, voluminous 64 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. wreaths of tobacco smoke. His hands were large and bony about the knuckles, and not over clean, wuth one or two flashy rings, with imitation rubies, ornamenting his fingers. There was a very good show of muscle in the arm, that was thrown in- dolently over the shoulder of a woman, who crouched on her knees close by his side, and looked lovingly up into his face. As she knelt there, the w^hole character of her beauty was changed from the aspect it had worn in the morning. The coun- tenance seemed "spiritualized," as it were; true, the gas lit up each luxuriant tress until its red tint grew almost too ruddy, and seemed to be all aglow and afire ; but the green coruscations in her pupils were invisible, leaving the large grey eyes under their long curling lashes perfect FOILED ! FATHER. 65 wells of tenderness and truth. The vivid colour that usually tinged her cheek had paled to a more delicate rose blush, and the full sensuous lips smiled with a plea- sant and happy expression, as they kissed repeatedly the hand that caressed her. It was perfectly marvellous, the trans- formation that this man's presence made in her appearance. With all her faults, follies, and even crimes — and their name was "Legion" — to this one human being whom she adored she was an angel, unselfish, self-sacrificing, unswerving in her fealty. Ruffian and blackguard though he was, and none of the dark shades of his character were hidden from her watchful jealous eye, she was faithful to the death to her idol. So faith- ful, that if it had fallen into worthless shivers at her feet, she would have stooped VOL. I. 5 06 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. and carefully gathered up tlie broken frag- ments, preserving them in her heart of hearts as a million times more priceless to her than images entire, unblemished, and untarnished. She would have garnered up each speck of dust, and treasured each tiny atom of it as unbounded wealth. " In the wildest anarchy of human nature's insur- gent appetites and sins, there is usually some reclaiming virtue." Very few creatures in this world, be they ever so innately coarse and low, and even vicious, are so utterly brutal as not to possess some one aspiration or sentiment, better and purer than the rest, lurking beneath a mass of evil, and lying dormant end insensible, perhaps only from the fact that no object has appeared upon the scene possessing sufficient power to awaken the better feeling into being. FOILED ! FATHER. 67 All that this woman had of refinement — if such a term can be used — in her, was called forth by the tones and touch of the only creature she really cared for in the wide wide world, although his tones were generally of the roughest, and his touch full many a black action had defiled. She had but little wealth to spare ; nothing, indeed, but the scanty earnings she ma- naged to scrape together at the poorly re- munerative profession of singer at a music hall; and the ^'Aspasian Pavilion" being the resort of the scum of the earth, the proprietor's generosity was in keeping with the profits he was enabled to make out of a rough lot of navvies, far richer in bad lan- guage than in pocket. But, nevertheless, though the sum was small, she gave it at once, freely and un- grudgingly, into her lover's hand, never 5 — 2 68 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. dreaming of words of gratitude from him, and only too happy in the knowledge that she was conducing by her mite to his welfare and comfort. In spite of her uneducated mind — in spite of all the gross and vulgar elements by which she was surrounded, and amidst which she had been both born and nur- tured — she shrank, with a refinement of delicacy that would have done honour to the grandest duchess in the land from any allusion, ever so covert, to the obligation he owed her for repeated pecuniary help during the period that they had known each other. She would never have hesitated to starve herself to death unrepiningly, if by such means she could have insured com- petency to him for the remainder of his natural existence. And yet she knew full TOILED ! FATHER. 69 well that his ways were uot what even she, in her somewhat lax notions of morality and probity, approved of; but amidst all his shortcomings and delinquencies, doubts of his constancy to her had never arisen to torture her soul. She felt sure of him, and for the sake of that one virtue, fidelity^ his million vices were fully and freely forgiven and forgotten. " So, Lucy" — and he looked down affec- tionately into the tender grey eyes that had barely left his face since he entered the room — " this is our very last evening to- gether. To-night I must give you up to your husband, and you and I shall never be all in all to one another again ! Do you hear me, Lu? You and I must part, so to speak, in another short hour for ever! AVhy, you laugh, girl! Has this parting, then, no sorrow for you? Are you such a 70 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. wanton that it's only a change of lovers, and a thing to smile at?" he asked, angrily, pushing her hand impatiently away from him, while his eyes darkened, and a heavy •cloud swept over his brow, making him look like a fiend. He loved the woman as much as it was in his nature to love any- thing, although he w^ould have sacrificed her on the spot to better himself in the smallest degree. ^' Eobert," she replied — and the joyous laugh on her lips was hushed in a moment, and replaced by a nervous and painful quiver, as she felt his rude and repelling gesture, and cowered beneath the anger in his voice — '' you must be mad ! You and I can never part in this world ; for if any- thing robbed me of you, I swear I would put an end to myself I have married a gentleman; but why? to please you — to do FOILED ! FATHER. your bidding ; for you know you wished it, that I might be able to help you. But, oh ! I hate him! — I liate himf she repeated, vehemently, hissing the words out from between her set teeth, " for he will have a right to the hours I might spend with you — to the love, that should only be yours, Eobert, dear ! But he can't part us entirely, any way. I shall still see you often, but not so often as now, perhaps," she sobbed, pressing his hand again and again to her lips, and leaning her ruddy head on his knee, whilst her tears coursed rapidly down her cheeks, and fell in big drops to the ground. And he, his rough heart melting at the sight of her genuine grief, stooped over her, and, raising her up, soothed her as gently as lay in his power. '' Kobert," she resumed after a little, 72 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. when he had wiped her tears away, and peace was restored between them, " pro- mise me, when I go away from this, that nothing shall make you forget me ! Swear it, or my heart will break. Swear that no other woman will ever take my place with you!" ''I do swear it, Lucy," he said, as emphatically as though he would not have sworn his very -soul away, without even a scruple of conscience rebuking him for his falsehood. " You know, with all my faults, I am fond of you. I wish now this marriage had never taken place, for what will be the good of money or anything, without you ! But it can't be helped now, and we must make the best on it. Come,. don't fret so, my girl," he whispered, kiss- ing her, as she glanced up in his coun- tenance with a mute gratitude for his kind FOILED ! TATHER. TS- words, and Avitli an implicit faith in his sincerity. " Past nine already," she exclaimed, at length, ''and he will be here soon. Only a few moments together now ! Look, my dear!" And she put half a dozen bright sovereigns into his hand. " This will help to keep you comfortable, in case we don't meet for a few days." And the shinino: sovereio^ns, that were the carefully hoarded-up store of the poor boy in ]\Iandeville Terrace, who had denied himself every superfluity in life, barely allowing himself enough to keep body and soul together, in order to accumulate a small bridal oiFering for his wife, slipped quickly from her hand into Eobert Minton's avaricious grasp, and from thence into his capacious pocket, to be squandered quickly away in the space of 74 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. a, few minutes in the intellectual games of " Aunt Sally" or skittles, in a neigh- bouring alley. Suddenly there came a brisk pull at the door-bell, and David Welland, who had some few seconds before been decoyed away from his post of sentinel by the tempting fumes of the unusually attractive evening repast, rushed into the room, breathless and with his mouth full, articulating with considerable difficulty : " Here he is, Lucy ! Get along with you, quick," he added, hurriedly, to Minton, pushing that individual unceremoniously through the door on to the passage upon the kitchen-stairs. Then he hastened to answer the hasty summons, donning the most amiable expression he could muster up into his ugly physiognomy, to greet his well-born son-in-law. FOILED ! FATHER. 75 The back slums of Islington had not yet a,r rived at the luxury — if luxury it can be called to have the tympanum of the human ear endangered some dozen times in a dozen hours — of " knockers." Bells were the prevailing fashion in the locality, and the sole method of com- munication with the inmates of the dwellings open to the visitor, no matter whether he were a " nob" or the dust- man. This time it was the " harbinger of woe," the postman, who had given the impetuous twang at the wire, probably in sheer irri- tation at being deprived of his especial prerogative, the peremptory "rat-tat;" and David Welland, on reclosing the door, carried the missive that had been delivered to the light, and wonderingly scrutinized its exterior. 76 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. A large square envelope, sealed with a monogram, "M.L.," and addressed to '' Miss WellancI, 6, Bridge Street, Islington," in a man's liand that had evidently trembled, judging from the zigzag forma- tion of the letters. The outside did not disclose much, and curiosity, worse than any woman's, strongly impelled him to peep into the interior, but a wholesome awe of his imperious daughter got the mastery over him, and restrained his fingers from tampering more freely with what did not belong to him, so he took it into the parlour and gave it to its rightful owner. Meanwhile, Lucy had been briskly em- ployed in putting the unsavoury debris of the evening repast carefully out of sight^ FOILED ! FATHER. 77 and having arranged the room, and smoothed the braids of hair that had been somewhat ruffled by the contact of Robert Minton's coat- sleeve, she sat awaiting the advent of the new-comer in the most lady- like pose she could assume, with a piece of flimsy needlework lying in her lap. In spite of all her vehement asseverations of " hatred," she was, womanlike, averse to appearing aught but enchanting in the eyes of the man whom she knew admired her. Jumping off her seat, she snatched the letter, tore it open, and hastily conned the contents. " Lucy, I know all ! " How I have been deceived, betrayed, outraged! drawn into an act of folly, or rather madness, which has ruined me for 78 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. ever! Oh! had you no pity, no spark of compunction for him who both loved and trusted you ? pretending to render back his aiFection sevenfold, whilst you belonged, body and soul, to another! And such another ! Great Heavens 1 when I think of my rival, my blood boils, and there is no vengeance, that I could not willingly take upon him. But you^ Lucy, I do not hate ; nay, I even love you still ! But reason is stronger than passion within me now, and I never wish to look upon your fair, false face again. "You and I shall never meet upon earth — do you understand? But still we are man and wife, and the miserable chain that binds us — though extended to its fullest length, though chafing and galling to both — will yet only be severed by death. FOILED ! FATHER. 79^ " You liave entailed uj^on me a lonely future — a loveless, solitary existence; and blasted every hope of happiness I had in the world ; and yet whilst you live, I have sworn before the God, who looked down upon our marriage vows, that no other woman shall fill the place by my side that should have been yours for ever and ever. You have rendered my life ' cold, and dark, and dreary/ and still I have no curse in my heart to give you. " Only an earnest prayer, that time may bring you repentance for your deadly sin towards me, and gain you as full a pardon from the Heaven,, your falsity mocked^ as you now have from your husband. — M. L." " Foiled ! father," she cried, passion ately,^ with her cheeks all on flame with anger,. 50 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. and her eyes flashing wildly. " It's all up : he has found out everything, somehow, and we shall never see him again !" ''But you are his wife: he can't help seeing you," the old man whimpered out, peevishly. Was this the end of all their plotting and scheming, he thought, to be foiled at last by a mere stripling, a beardless boy ? Were all his grand visions of a com- fortable old age going to melt into thin air like this — the tower of hope that he had built upon the foundation of his daughter's elevation into a higher sphere? Was he doomed still to labour on and on for the remainder of his days, by the sweat of his brow, for a livelihood, after all his antici- pations of what the play calls the '' Nigger's Paradise," the luxury of keeping his hat on his head, and his hands in his pockets, ?alias idleness? His amount of book learn- FOILED ! FATHER. 81 ing had not told him that idleness is the Dead Sea, swallowing up all virtue — the self-made sepulchre of a living man ! " We must find him, Lucy, and we'll have the law against him — the law of our noble land, that is always so just and good; and if we can't have him., we'll have damages for desertion. Heavy damages, eh, Lucy ?" And his eyes twinkled greedily at the very notion of the Z. S. D, the court Avould adjudge to the poor deserted wife. " Yes, that's all very well," she replied; "but where can you find him? London is a very large place, father, and we have no clue to him, excepting his name, and that may be a false one. But, no: it's on his seal. We will advertise for him, and it we VOL. I. 6 82 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. are foiled after all this bother, it will be a nuisance, for there's my dress and all the rest of the wedding things unpaid for! Robert !" she called out, and notwithstand- ing the failure of her scheme for worldly aggrandizement and wealth — in spite of a natural feminine feeling of anger and mor- tification at being " left," there was a sort of ringing gladness in her loud accents. '^ Robert, come in ! Don't be afraid - No husband, after all! only a trumpery letter. Read it 1'^ and she looked over his shoulder while he perused the document. When he had finished reading it, she never glanced at the expression of his face, but throwing herself into his arms, said, "And now I am yours, dear; jours only, for ever !'* " So this game's up, and no more bleed- FOILED ! FATHER. 83 ing likely of that white-faced stripling. Curse him!" was what passed through Robert Minton's mind, as he bit his lip hard, and affectionately returned Lucy's embrace. 6—z CHAPTER I. TWO HEARTS. "By Castor! Love Hath both its gall and honey in abundance, Sweet to the taste; but in it Ave swallow bitter, Even till we loathe !" " No sooner met, than they looked; no sooner looked,, than they loved! no sooner loved, than they sighed!" Shalcespeare. HE lights shone down upon the ball at its zenith, upon the lovely flushed faces, the sweet flashing eyes, and the bare ivory shoulders of fair dames of the nineteenth century, who, peerless in beauty and half- TWO HEARTS. 85 draped in form, floated gracefully in aerial garments through the quadrille, or Avere whirled round in voluptuous evolutions, as Byron aptly has it — " Witli hands promiscuously applied Itound the slight waist or doA\Ti the glowing side." Through the heated temperature of the crowded room stole the fragrance of per- fumed ambrosial curls and ebon braids, mingling with the scent of exquisite exotics, whose shining leaves and gorgeous colour- ing contrasted beautifully with the alabaster tints of the bosoms against which they •closely nestled. A scene of revelry, roses, and loveliness ; upon which two or tln-ee men looked, as they lounged together indolently near the entrance of the ball-room. The man with the Norman type of physiognomy and drooping ta^my mous- 8& NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. taclie was Arthur Gordon, a young Scotch Baronet, owning a lengthy pedigree that dated from the time that ''Wallace bled.'* He w^as rich in an amplitude of the choicest things that can be bestowed on the sons of earth — youth, health, and w^ealth, good looks, inexhaustible spirits, and a bijou of an estate, romantically situated in the heart of the bonnie Highlands — a mansion perched on a lovely hill that, bathed in sunshine or lying in depths of cool shadow, towered high towards the blue sky — with its sides lined by luxuriant wilds of gorse and yellow^ broom, whilst around rose a fulness of green, and miles upon miles of purple feathery heather, intersected by crystal streams, running like so many sil- very threads through the flowery pastures. Very different in pecuniary position to the owner of " Silvernest" was Maurice TWO HEARTS. 87 Lynn, an homme de lettres, and far from affliient, although possessing a sufficiency for moderate wants. His character also was a direct oppo- sition to that of his companion, for he was staid, serious, and slightly cynical — traits that were antipodean au dernier degre to Gordon's laughter-loving versatile tempera- ment, and yet curiously enough, as though in exemplification of the proverb, les extremes se touchent^ the two were the firmest of allies, and, if possible, inseparable. '^Maurice!" said Gordon, suddenly, after a prolonged silence, during which he had been watching covertly, with an amused expression on his features, the stolid indif- ference, amounting to apathy, with which Lynn surveyed each bright creature who flitted to and fro before them, his gaze never lingering two consecutive moments 88 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. on any one particular belle, but following the movements of eacli in succession, with a strange sort of dreamy nonchalance in his eyes. " Do you know, I often wonder, old fellow, if there exists upon earth any woman possessing sufficient attractions to enchain your fancy even for a short while ! The Man in the Iron Mask could scarcely have presented a more imperturbable ex- terior than your face has worn during the last half hour, whilst your eyes have been regaled on a perfect garden of rich and glowing delights — flowers of all sorts, full- blown and budding !" " Ton my soul ! I do believe Helen her- self would have failed in arresting your regard, and that a search for a woman to your fastidious liking would be as long and as futile as Diogenes' hunt after honesty. TWO HEARTS. 89 And yet beauty is a grand thing ! Isn't it Keats who says, ' A thing of beauty is a joy for ever ?' " '' Was it Keats ? I can't recollect just now. Madame Kachel, I should fancy, probably," Lynn replied, indifferently; but a shade stole over his countenance as he added — " But the fact is that I seem to care for nothing ! If this ball-room were trans- formed into a seraglio^ and my humble self into Abdul Aziz, and 1 had con^e delire any one of the smiling houris before me, I swear I should be nonplussed. Either beauty has lost its influence over me com- pletely, or else the only type of it that could, perhaps, ' fetch ' me ever so slightly, never appears. The long and the short of the matter is, that I am ' used up,' literally biased to extinction. I have 90 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. either made a very bad use of life, or else life has ill used me shamefully. I only know that I arrived long ago at the conclusion that I am not capable of ' falling in love/ as it is called. The naked boy spreads his meshes for me in vain, and yet I am not such an idiot as to fancy myself a miso- gynist. But, somehow, pretty faces and I seem to have nothing in common with one another. Every charm that enthrals other men passes me by, scarcely touching me so much as the stroke of a feather, and leav- ing behind no deeper impress than the breath of the soft summer wind. There is always a wretched hiatus in either my heart or imagination that nothing can fill up!" " Humbug ! mon clier : no hiatus, only a bad digestion, or else the grumblings of a mind unhealthily morbid. You think that TWO HEARTS. 91 love has lost all potency for you, just be- cause you may have been victimized by Cupid once in your life, and deceived. It would, indeed, be very hard lines if, just because you mistook in boyish folly, the paltry glimmer of a ^ farthing dip ' for a ' real ray of light from Allah,' as Byron calls it." '^ Yes, but not in earnest, only in poetry," interrupted Lynn. "Those little animals that existed on the river Hypanis were typical of his loves, living only twelve hours, dying in youth and loveliness at eio:ht o'clock in the mornino^, but reachino; a miserable state of decrepitude, if their ex- istence was prolonged any longer. You have quoted unhappily, Arthur !" "• A little learning is a dangerous thing," by Jove, and only makes your brain sick. To be of a philosophical nature is good 92 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. sometimes, for philosophy enables one to bear things serenely; but I would rather -eschew it and accept the usual compound of sweet and acidity. Perpetual sunshine would irritate the eye, and even the nectar of the Gods would soon become horribly cloy- ing. Life and love to me should be sym- bolized by a repast of pcites^ piquante with Cayenne and spic}'- condiments, washed down by a draught of sparkling Clicquot, and wound up by a sweet and luscious peach. There are lots of felloAvs who go in for star- vation of feeling and mortification of the flesh, on principle, but the result is often contrary to what they expect, for eventually they become worse than caged beasts, doubly rapacious, from restriction in food and isolation from their kind. Ergo, those hypocritical monks. I wager that a re- gular man about town hasn't half the un- TWO HEARTS. 93^ bridled flights of passion that seize them^ in spite of all their abstinence from pleasure and dinners of lentils." " In fact, ' Life's Goblet ' you would freely press, and wish it ' hot, sweet, and strong,' like the peg of an ancient crone after a hard day's charing ; but remember what the old Dominie used to say at school, when a warm joint one day por- tended cold scraps the next : — ' Festo die si quid prodigeris, Profecto egere liceat nisi peperceris' — and be prepared for the trying con- trast !" "But Lynn," said Reggy Peel, a smart, sharp-witted young fellow in the Foreign Office, " why on earth should you take as jaundiced a view of existence, as if you were as elderly as Methuselah, or as acid as a lemon, or eschew Avoraan and society like 94 :n'ot while she lives. a misantlirope ? Tliose men are only made to be unsociable ' who like nobody, are like nobody, and are liked by nobody.' All women are not tlie Scylla and Charybdis of human life. Wait a bit till the right one turns up to houleverser all your notions. Why even a single glance might melt the pillar of ice into Yesuvian lava, — and transmogrify the stoic into a spoon !" "Not if I know it! Omnia vanitas ! There's a picture illustrative of that fact for which I have a weakness. Have you seen it ? ' A nude female figure, gleaming up through sunlight from a snowy couch, testifying pleasure,' with all sorts of emblems of the nothingness of everything surrounding it." " I am as insensible to profiles cut like cameos as I am to the laughing face of TWO HEARTS. 95 a Hebe. The blue-black tresses of an Eastern sultana, or the locks of gold adorning the purest blonde — the -vvillowy limbs of a Juno, or the voluptuous form of a Venus — are alike impotent to touch me ; and as to the ' beaux yeux ' of the sex, their looks fall as harmlessly as though I were a second Bartimeus. No feminine proximity makes my heart give one throb the quicker; no rustle of a petti- coat accelerates the blood in my veins. But the worst of it all is, that I don't know whether such a state of statu-quo existence is a matter, of congratulation or not." ^' Of course not," exclaimed Gordon. ^' One might as well be a pulse plant, half human, half vegetable. Life isn't worth having at any price, if every feeling, lov^e included, appears tame and uninteresting. 96 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. Even to have cared for some one once, is sometliing to look back upon with pleasure." " Rather a lugubrious one when the verb amove is conjugated in the past tense^ surely." " Not a bit of it. It's a sort of oasis in the desert. The recollection of the pleasant little episode lingers, and gives a halo of romance to the prosaic worldly feelings that come later in life. Besides, a man must be all the better for having at any one period loved, and been loved by a really good and pure woman, and like — ' The stained web that whitens in the sun, Grows pure by being purely shone upon.' " ^' Bravissimo^ Arthur ! you speak like a book !" laughed Reggy. ''No— * My only books Were women's looks.' " TWO HEARTS. 97 •'^ And a prodigious quantity of deceit you must have learnt, then," asserted Maurice. ''But surel}^ you have never felt the fierce, passionate love, or the patient, all- enduring aiFection, that leaves indelible traces behind? You, the papillon, full of fun and persijlage, but never showing on your wings a sign of having been singed !" ''I wish I was a butterfly, &c., for it must be the j oiliest thing in the world — roving from flower to flower, gathering honey wherever you can; never lingering long enough on one blossom to reach satiety, but finding zest and enjoyment in charming variety. ' Love endures no tie,' and perjuna ridet amantium Jupiter, A quid pro quo^ Lynn, for your school Latin. Who will gainsay the fact that VOL. I. 7 9=8 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. Phiz and flirtation are nice enough things?" " One must be easily satisfied if they suffice for niceness. One might as well go in for an Oriental heaven: all black eyes and sherbet." '^ Vive la bagatelle! say I; and as for you, ^a grand passion' is probably in petto j if it were only a vengeance from the rosy urchin for scouting at him. By Jove!" And Gordon stopped short, seizing Lynn's arm, and whispered, sotto voce^ in an agitated tone, that was strangely dis- similar to the bantering voice he had been speaking in — " Who would have dreamt of seeing her here !" "Who?" "Lettice Grey, the only girl I ever TWO HEARTS. 9^ loved, or ever shall love, and who has it ill her power to make me happy or mi- serable all my life !" " Arthur, old boy, you are contradiction itself! A minute ago you were advocating inconstancy, and now, like a moonstruck lover, here you are in tragic rhapsody worse than Komeo's, apostrophizing some Nemesis who has suddenly risen up to rebuke you for your Lotharian discourse. Where is the avenging goddess?" "There! Could any one divine that within such a form, there beat a heart full of falsity ! I am not particularly vin- dictive by nature ; but, hang it ! I swear I could find a wish to see her pride crushed, as I stand here and see all the smiles she is bestowing on those cursed puppets ob- sequiously dancing attendance upon her^ 100 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. while she seems to delight in the adulation she receives. She sees m^, too, and re- doubles her gaiety. Oh, woman! they may call you a ' ministering angel,' but you are a far greater source of torment than of joy." " Calm yourself," said Lynn, soothingly. He saw that Gordon was really in earnest, and he had the good taste to abstain from any misplaced " chaffing" or expression of the surprise he felt, in seeing the lively Baronet turned all at once into a lovesick and despairing swain. "Arthur, you are probably doing her injustice, and later you may blame yourself for allowing doubts of her to enter your mind. If she does see you, and laughs, and appears engrossed by others, why, what then? It is only a fact, from which a flattering or unflattering deduction can be TWO HEARTS. 101 drawn, according to your own will. Don't let the green-eyed monster run away with you, and warp your judgment. No one can guess from an exterior that is extorted by the convenances the real feelings that exist beneath a surface of sparkling smiles. God knows ! how often I have car- ried a very heavy heart into a festive scene, where perhaps my laugh may have sounded the loudest, and even the most genuine in the room. We do not require to live very long to find out that les ajoparences soni trornpeuses ; and many a time a poor woman may be suffering torture in her soul, and yet she may possess sufficient commendable pride not to 'wear her heart upon her sleeve, for daws to peck at.' But which of the three Graces, you pointed towards, is the one ? That magnificent girl with the 102 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. imperial brow and eyes like twin stars, or the pretty plump little woman by ber side?" " Neither. The tall girl is Miss Ches- terton ; the lady next to her is a stranger to me." "Don't you know who she is? Then / will tell you," Reggy Peel re- joined. " She is Mrs. Marmaduke Smith, nee Janet Morton, the Irish beauty that all London went mad about when she made her debut. Two years ago / was her accepted suitor, but the diplomatic horizon looking shady, and no likelihood of an appointment turning up, Miss Janet bowled me over, sans ceremonie, for the rich stock- broker. I never felt so small and so ashamed of my ancestry as when I got cir- cumvented by a ' Smith.' Faugh ! a con- venient enough cognomen, however, for TWO HEARTS. 103 who would be insane enough to plunge into the intricacies of a ^ Smith's' genealogy so long as he was nicely rolled up in crisp bank-notes. Money! Leviathan power — Juggernauth monster, that crushes beneath its wheels every other recommendation a man may possess. Hang titles, and talents too, unless it be the talent of turning all you touch into good hard cash! Even a hideous old buffer of seventy, coming in for half a million, can afford to give himself airs. He is no longer old — he is no longer ugly ; he has only got to show himself to be courted and admired. Only to hold out his withered hands, and the prettiest, love- liest lips will gladly kiss them. Only to display his bank-book, and the most youth- ful belle of Belgravia will be his. He has only to command, and all women will be his slaves. It is for such as him, a super- 104 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. annuated Monte Cristo, that the purest and the vilest of the sex were evidently made ; and he has only to drop his snufF- stained handkerchief amongst them, and it will be disputed for and as eagerly claimed, as the golden apple of Paris ! Mrs- Smith's ambition now is to be considered a literary character, and she cannot exist out of an atmosphere of savants ! Those two men hanging over her are fashionable scribblers ; and one of them, Terence, goes in for homme galant as well. The other is in the gum-and-stamp office ; and both are ' lions' who find plenty of ' Unas^ in London society to pet and spoil them." "Then the fair girl is your especial weakness, Arthur?" " Yes ; and I have looked into those great innocent blue eyes of hers until TWO HEARTS. 105 they seemed to hold out to me the pro- of a heaven whose azure they rival. I told her frankly that she had become everything in the world to me; and she put her hand into mine, and hid her face on my shoulder, and swore to be my wife! But what's the wisdom of retrospection ! it only makes a fellow feel doubly down." '- Yes, but, you know, ' confession is good,' etcetera; and I am interested in this little romance of your life, which you have contrived to keep so dark." •' Well, to cut a long story short, there were no obstacles to surmount : everything went smoothly as a marriage-bell. We were as happy as a couple of children. Suddenly a cloud arose — a paltry speck, rather — jealousy, misunderstanding, and so on, increased it into a thunder-bolt 106 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. at last; then that burst, and left me wretched." " And took you off to Venice for six months, to try the cure of Venetian tresses. I remember you left England with an unusually crestfallen countenance.'^ " Yes ; but she did not suffer, and is as smiling and serene as ever, as though nought had occurred to ruffle the even tenor of her life. I have never set eyes upon her till to-night." " Here's some balm for you. I am a bit of a physiognomist, and I see no coldness or falsity in the glances that she turns covertly, but very frequently, this way. Make it up with her if you really love her, Arthur, and you will find it was only a ' cloud with a silver lining,' after all, that came between you." " No offence to your taste, old fellow, TWO HEARTS. 107 car il Vby a pas de regie sans exception; but I, as a rule, hate fair women. They are generally as treacherous as pan- thers, and often as vicious. The other girl is more my type of beauty, but ten chances to one she is either stupid or wicked." "Maurice, your eternal cynicism grates upon me, in spite of my irritated feelings. You expect a rara avis instead of a wo- man. However, you had better be intro- duced to her, and I almost hope she will revenge her whole sex by breaking your heart — that is, if there is such an absurdity as a broken heart, or suivant your hypo- thesis, hearts of any kind." "Who is she?" " Daughter of Sir John Chesterton, a pompous, fussy old Baronet, emulated in stiff-neckedness by the haughty dame, his 108 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. wife. The family dates from near the Deluge, ou un ]jeu pres, and have extensive estates in Lincolnshire, besides a palatial mansion in Eaton Square. Violet Ches- terton is an only child, and an heiress^ and, ^^ar consequence^ a natural target for matrimonial shafts of all sorts. On cUt, that she, too, has a leaven of the family pride, and that she is ridicu- lously quixotic in her defence of an immaculateness that nineteenth - century men don't often come up to. No one has hitherto appeared to reach up to her impossible standard, and she never condescends to flirting like other girls. Now you^ Maurice, cannot be classed as a fortune-hunter, and you may suc- ceed in pleasing her as a pleasant ac- quaintance. Friendship with a pretty woman is agreeable enough, although I TWO HEARTS. 109 confess I have not much faith myself in its existence between the sexes." " La Fontaine said that love is but a shadow of the morning, that de- creases as day advances • but that friendship is the shadow of the even- ing, that lengthens with the setting sun." " La Fontaine must have been a block of ice, like yourself," laughed Eeggy Peel. " Platonics are awfully jolly things, I dare say, provided you have moral courage to stick to them. They don't entail on you a tenter - hook sort of existence, with a continual sword of Damocles suspended by a hair over your head; they don't feed you on a diet of 'honey and bitter aloes,' with the bitter predominating considerably; 110 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. and they don't give you half the bother and pain of being a miserable shuttle- cock, wafted hither and thither, north, south, east, and west — by Cupid's capri- cious battledore !" " May I introduce my friend Mr. Lynn?" Gordon said, later in the even- ing; and by the time the lady had bowed her acknowledgment of the in- troduction, Arthur had quietly lounged away, and Violet Chesterton, lifting up her eyes, looked straight into a face that exactly realized her ideal. CHAPTER II. OMNIA VINCIT AMOR. " Love is a sweet idolatry, enslaving all the soul, A mighty spiritual force, warring with the dullness of matter — An angel mind breathed into a mortal ! ****** Love ! what a volume in a word, an ocean in a tear, A seventh heaven in a glance, a whirlwind in a sigh, The lightning in a touch, a Millennium in a moment !" F?'Overhial Philosoph?/. " To love, and at the same time to be wise, is scarcely granted even to a god." N undoubted homme du monde^ Maurice Lynn's character was yet somewliat inconsistent, if looked upon in the hackneyed acceptance 112 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. of that term. He was excessively shrewd and far-seeing, but the power of penetra- tion which unveiled to him in all their meanness and deformity, the vices of the human mind, had failed to render him either particularly cautious or calculating in the acquaintance he formed. He was true in judgment, although as impulsive in his real temperament as an infant, but he contrived to disguise his naturally strong feelings under a mountain of seeming ice. Sceptical of genuine goodness in both sexes, he was yet w^onderfully ardent in his implicit and unwavering faith in the few he really liked and respected. An accom- plished scholar, a profound thinker, and an occasional dreamer, he was a man who lived to some purpose. Unlike the majority of men with whom OMNIA VINCIT AMOR. 113 he was in daily association, his life had been far from a frivolous one, and un- toward circumstances had shown him a good deal more of the shady side of exis- tence with its innumerable knocks and brunts, than of the summer portion of it, that is filled with poetry and spread with roses. Many a ''crumpled leaf" had, how- ever, strew^ed his path. Nine years ago he had been a clerk, and almost a drudge, in a great banking firm in the City — a berth procured for him with infinite difficulty by an old and influential friend of his family; but, nevertheless, a berth that yielded in return for ten weari- some hours of diurnal labour the magnifi- cent remuneration of an annual stipend of some sixty pounds. Still, during the lifetime of the only parent that was left to him, he had plodded VOL. I. 8 114 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. and worked on, patiently and uncomplain- ingly, at tlie uninteresting study of ledgers ; and had allowed himself neither time, nor licence of imagination for soaring into higher branches of literature, or dwelling on a less prosaic aspect of life than that which was open to him within the circum- scribed space contained between the four walls of the banker's office. When at length he found himself alone in the world, with no relative dependent on his daily exertions, he gladly threw up the irksome stuffy berth, and with the Very few hundreds that formed the whole of his patrimony he commenced a new career in the Great Babylon — the most uncertain career he could possibly have chalked out for himself, viz., an author's. It was in sad, sober, and earnest truth, a very tempestuous ocean on which he had OMNIA VINCIT AMOR. 115 been courageous enough to risk his " little all," with no finish, apparently, to the rocks and shoals that were to be encountered in the passage, and Avith no end of violent buiFetings with the overwhelming and nearly submerging waves of criticism that was occasionally not only ill-naturedj but positively unjust, until the critics and re- viewers of the nineteenth century became the very bugbears of his life, and over and over again he inwardly endorsed the senti- ment that had emanated from the breast of a " forlorn and shipwrecked brother.'' The fangs of a bear, the tusks of a wild boar, do not bite worse and make deeper gashes than a goosequill sometimes! No, even the badger himself, who is said to be so tenacious of his bite that he will not give over his hold until his teeth meet! 116 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. Aristotle, when asked by what criterion we should judge of the merits of a book, replied, "When an author has said every- thmg that he ought, nothing but what he ought, and says that as he ought." The critics of the day were as exacting and severe as the Grecian philosopher. "Let there be ^ gall enough' in thy ink, though thou write with a goose-pen, no matter !" was an exordium to their heart's content; so instead of occasionally handling with gentleness, or even now and then amiably overlooking some of the blemishes that met their view, thereby bestowing a little encouragement on him who wrote with the earnest desire, if failing in the power, to merit approval, they seemed to revel with a malicious joy in gushes of censoriousness, ^iXX- lessly mutilating each carefully-penned OMNIA VINCIT AMOR. 117 sentence, until it came disgracefully limp- ing out into the world, and crushing each flight of imagination until it lay a hideous commonplace, bereft of all that "Could make it sound even readable to the public. Poor Maurice would often catcli himself poring sadly and hopelessly over the pages of a review that mercilessly and ruthlessly slashed away at some particularly pet passage over which he bad spent hours of thought, and would feel inclined to ejacu- late, bitterly enough — "Satire or sense, alas I can Sporus feel, "Who breaks a butterfly upon a wheel !" From early youth he had been imbued with melancholy and somewhat morbid vicAvs of life — that "the world had nothing solid, nothing desirable in it; that it was only a fashion, and a fashion that passeth 118 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. away; that the tenderest affections end; that honours are but specious titles that time effaces ; that pleasures are only amuse- ments that have a lasting and painful repentance; that riches escape by their own instability; that grandeur is but moul- dering, and that glory and reputation lose themselves in the abyss of eternal oblivion ; — that, in fact, thus rolls the torrent of the world whatever pains are taken to stop it, and that everything is carried away by a rapid train of passing events," were dis- heartening truths for a stripling to study ; but, nevertheless, he preferred them to the light sensational romances that have gene- rally so great a charm for youth. He struggled on manfully, however, in spite of the discouraging barriers that rose up continually in his path; and although he did not exactly " wake up one morning OMNIA VINCIT AMOR. 119 to find himself famous," yet success came to him at length by soupgons^ to reward him for his sturdy and unceasing efforts. And when he had succeeded m securing a competency that precluded a necessity for turning his brains to account, he yet scribbled on from sheer love and taste for literature, whom he had constituted his sole mistress, and at whose shrine he was not only a willing slave but even an enthu- siastic devotee. He was twenty-eight years old now, and nine years of that period he had led a studious and sedentary life, rarely going in for more than bare glimpses of the world, and eschewing as much as lay in his power the myth, alluring but dangerous, that that world calls " pleasure." He believed firmly that a determined 120 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. votary of pleasure was one " who desires to be happier than any man can be, and is less happy than most men are — one, in fact, who seeks happiness every- where but where it is to be found, and who out-toils the labourer not only without his wages, but even paying dearly for it." The slave of pleasure, it is said, sinks into a kind of voluptuous dotage; intoxicated with present delights, and care- less of everything else, his days and nights glide away in luxury and vice, and he has no care but one, and that is to keep thought away. But how like an opium-eater's dream such an existence must be, with occasional fits of wakefulness, in the short space of which as much pain must be endured as would more than counterbalance OMNIA VINCIT AMOR. 121 the pleasure of whole ages of blissful trances ! Long, long ago, a few hours of his life, had done Maurice right good service, although they had made him suffer bitterly at the time. They had induced him to *'sow his wild oats" at a far earlier period of manhood than is usually the case. Women and pleasure had become to him dark shadows of the past, to be dreaded and shunned in the future, in- stead of appearing to be sources of enjoyment in the present; but with un- belief in the feminine sex came a certain quantum of cynicism that in the eyes of many marred his character. His studious ways had imparted a peculiar gravity to his manner, which is rare in an age in which men, counting their years by threescore and ten, affect the 1-25 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. buoyant spirits and frisky juvenility of boyhood; but there was a species of " attrait" in the very fits of abstraction that crept over him at times, asserting their ascendancy even amidst society, and drawing him away, as it seemed, from the outer world into a world of his own — a world that was evidently peopled ?with melancholy fancies, judging by the tinge of sadness that those reveries always left upon his visage. His personal advantages were great. Hanging up, in an out-of- the- w^ay corner of a picture gallery at Dresden, is a small cabinet painting, resembling an old Velasquez, and labelled "Saint Augustin." A rich but very dark back- ground, showing up a face in startling relief, as though it were chiselled in marble. OMNIA VINCIT AMOR. 123 The eyes deep-set and large, with a sort of "far-off" look in them, under a pair of well-defined brows. The whole countenance superb like a Greek god's, but lacking warmth and mobility in the rigidness of the lines round the mouth, and the severe regu- larity of each delicate feature. Maurice might have sat as the original of the saint's portrait, except that when he smiled, which was but rarely, all the coldness faded right out of his face, and an expression of unutterable softness stole over his lips. He was a tall man with a lithe figure, possessing far more of elegance in it, than muscular strength, and his intellectual countenance was pale with nightly vigils. '' A slave of the lamp," he paid the 124 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. penalty of his badge, by a loss of tlie fresh colouring, that never goes hand in hand with a consumption of " midnight oil," but which constitutes with many people manly beauty and vigour. With others, though they might have been in the minority, his principal charm was the very refinement of the spirituelle face. He had a free independence about him, and a thorough indifference to general popularity. To those whom he desired to please, his voice and manner were fascina- ting in the extreme. And in a woman who possessed sufficient capability and taste to appreciate properly the " nobility" of his type of physiognomy, he was just the being to excite profound admiration and devotion, and to be placed upon a pedestal of perfection for her to fall down and worship. When he conversed with one of OMNIA VINCIT AMOR. 125 the opposite sex, which was not very fre- quently, there was, in spite of his avowed scepticism in feminine worth, a deference in his tone which insensibly flattered and pleased the fair creature he addressed, and his eyes, ordinarily wearing a cold reflec- tive expression, acquired potent attraction for any woman who fancied herself gifted with the power of drawing a warmer look into them when they turned upon her. Only a few weeks had elapsed since the memorable ball at which Violet Chesterton had met her " Fate," as she inwardly called him, and she had learnt the great lesson of life by heart. The verb amo^ with regard to Maurice, had been conjugated by her already fifty times a day in every tense and mood — " practice makes perfect" — and she was as proficient in her task as though 126 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. she had been studying it for years instead of days. She would watch for a flood of " love-light " to well up into those serious hazel eyes, and when it came a strange rapture would fill her bosom. She had turned over a new leaf in existence, and the perusal of it imparted a zest and colouring to life that was blissful beyond expression. She utterly forgot her real age, and dated the first hour of her being from that moment when she had first looked upon him. And where in all the world could have been found a more invincible proof of omnia vincit amor than in Maurice ? Maurice, the unbeliever, the sceptic, the cynical ridiculer of all earthly afi*ec- tion! It was love, passion, madness, or all three combined, that had hurled away OMNIA VINCIT AMOR. 127 to the four winds of heaven, in a brief moment, all his cherished sentiments, all his beloved philosophy of many a long year! But how could he have looked at her and doubted that goodness and truth really existed in this world? How could he have spoken to her, and believed that such lips as hers could frame aught savouring of falsity or deceit ? How could he have touched her and not acknov/ledged within him- self that, in spite of all he had so lately avowed, he was still capable of loving, that his heart was not only not '' dead,'^ but possessed ih.Q human attributes of worshipping, rejoicing, and suffering! She was the " ray of light " of which Gordon had spoken; but why had cruel fate cast her into his path, when her presence for a little while could but 128 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. make the darkness in which destiny had placed him, still more terribly visible? Since the two had met, circumstances had throw^n them, nolens volens, continu- ally together. Maurice had, day by day, emerged more and more out of his shell, and had become an altered man. He seemed to have thrown off all his or- dinary reserve and apathy, and went into society with a light buoyancy of spirit, which, if not reaching quite to the noisy hilarity of some men, yet presented a remarkable contrast to his former de- meanour. Arthur Gordon looked on amazed at the sudden transformation; but Gordon was entirely without "guile," and was one of those open, unsuspecting creatures that never think of divi??^ for motives, OMNIA VINCIT AMOR.- 129 accepting willingly the surface so long as it be a pleasant one. What on earth mattered it to him, to trouble himself by questioning as to cause^ when the effect was agreeable? Maurice had grown infi- nitely jollier, and consequently was a better <jompanion than ever. Moreover, he had enough work on his hands on his own account, and all his time was employed in reflecting as seriously as any Commander-in-Chief, over the wisest manoeuvres for the siege of a <iitadel that appeared impervious to any method of attack. A wilful capricious fairy, with the loveliest mignonne figure in the world, and an innocent Hebe face. Miss Let- tice Grey, once more having turned up on the tapis, had resumed her despotic reign in the Baronet's honest heart ; but he VOL. I. 9 130- NOT WHILE SHE LIVES* had not as yet ventured to hold up before those laughing turquoise eyes the iiag of truce, for she was so cruel to him,, playing fast and loose with his feelings^ just as her variable mood dictated. Now and then a kinder look, a furtive smile, would almost bring him, a humble suppliant at her side; then a flirty move- ment, a coquettish arch glance shot else- where, would arrest his flying steps, and leave him bitterly riled, and angrily venting his annoyance on the unoffend- ing hirsute glory that adorned his upper lip, and of which many men were envious. Arrived at years of discretion, and pos- sessing a moderate amount of brains, he yet lacked the wisdom to know *^ Where is the man who has the power and skill To stem the torrent of a woman's will ? For if she will, she will, you may depend on't, And if she wont, she ivont, and there's an end on't !" OMNIA VINCIT AMOR. 181 The provincial town in which both Maurice Lynn and the Chestertons were temporary visitors, presented but a limited society, the members of which naturally frequented the same places of resort and amusement, the same balls, fetes, and pic-nics, each of which afforded easy facilities for furthering a desirable ac- quaintance. Thus a morning scarcely dawned upon the lovers — for lovers they had speedily become — Avithout the blessed assurance of a meeting, somewhere or somehow,. before the breaking of another day. But though these looked-for meetings were of daily occurrence, Maurice, though he had perhaps implied love, had never by word avowed it. His looks and his manner testified openly enough to the feelings which the 9—2 132 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. girl had awakened in liim ; but never had he embodied his sentiments in a single sentence; never, in spite of many a fa- vourable opportunity, in spite of the very encouragement that he could scarcely fail to read in Violet's sweet eyes, those speak- ing eyes, that he had likened to twin stars, and which had become in truth the only beacons he knew, had he dared to breathe his passion, or to seek for an acknow- ledgment of reciprocity from the lips that sometimes seemed almost to woo him to come nearer them. But though wearing a gay and lively exterior abroad, alone, and at home, the old fits of gloom began to reassume their sway over him, and none but himself knew the extent of the fearful struggle within him, or guessed how terribly hard it had already become for him, to resist OMNIA VINCIT AMOR. 133 the mute, but eloquent pleading of those dear lips and eyes, and to stifle back the passionate words that burnt in his breast for utterance. Conscience — and with him conscience had hitherto been powerful enough — now continually persuaded him to be strong, and to flee from temptation; but for the first time in his life he tried to chase away the " still small voice," feeling that it was impossible for him to break through the spell that bound him to Violet's side, even though love threatened to conquer, when both honour and prin- ciple bade him be dumb. It was brought home to him now how utterly moral cowardice and a guilty heart go hand in hand. If he could but be brave, and obey the impulse to do rightly, saying 134 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. ''No" decidedly to himself, and ad- hering to his sapient resolution — hut he €Ould not. '^But," it is said, is a more detestable combination of letters than any other. ^'No" is a surly, but honest fellow, speaks his mind rough and round at once; hut^ is only a sneaking, evasive, half-bred, exceptional sort of conjunc- tion, and the man who uses it is lost. Maurice soon persuaded himself that it would be just as futile a task to try and " enchain a wild buffalo with a garland of flowers," as to wrestle with the mightiness of the love that had become a portion of his being. Violet, with eighteen years of ex- perience, was not very au fait at the difficult reading of human nature, but she was old enough and intelligent enough OMNIA VINCIT AMOR. 135 to discover the existence of the tempest evidently warring mthin her lover's heart. There were occasional moments when, torn by the conflicting emotions of anxiety and incertitude, absolute unhappiness pre- vailed over her, and she tormented her- self by perplexing doubts and fears, and all the other unpleasant concomitants of "being in love," asking herself whether Maurice really cared for her or otherwise ? But such moments were very rare, and she felt at most times a happy and certain conviction, that though some- thing deterred him from speaking, a true affection did exist and was her very own ; but what that fatal " something'' was, remained to her an enigma long un- solved, and unexplained. V66 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. She could have staked her life on his truth, and have vouched before all the world, that he was no gay trifler, like the many butterflies that fluttered around her with honeyed speeches, and specious flattery, meeting no kinder re- sponse from her than their own in- sincerity deserved. He was assuredly no fortune-hunter, dazzled into admira- tion and adulation, by the glitter of her reputed wealth; no wanton wounder of women's feelings, no male flirt, that most despicable creature of the mascu- line species, searching for victims ta gratify his paltry vanity. And there was no apparent sensualism in his com- position, prompting him to pursue for awhile one who pleased his eye, but who lacked the power to enchain hi& footsteps, or to satisfy his erratic taste. OMNIA VINCIT AMOR. 137 Violet, after the fashion of her sex, who, when Cupid has them under his thumb, are obstinately blind and deaf to any possible defects in the object of their aiFections, was convinced that Maurice was all that " her fancy painted him," and she would have an- swered as steadfastly for . him as for herself: so, weary of conjecturing, she resolved to bide her time patiently, and to leave the future to take care of itself. To her, her lover's daily pre- sence was actual meat and drink and oxygen, leaving no desire ungratified, no wish unfulfilled. He was become the alpha and omega of everything — her all in all. She lived in a beatific dream from morn till night, and from night to morn ; and so long as no prospect of parting from him came to 138 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. shadow her happy life, she was as blithe- some as a bird. But as day after day slipped by, lengthening into weeks, and even months, Sir John Chesterton and his lady-wife ' grew less tolerant of the delay in the open declaration of Maurice's senti- ments, than the party most concerned in the matter, was herself. They could not naturally compre- hend why a man, who was undoubtedly Violet's very shadow, should be so tardy in coming forward honourably, as a, claimant for her hand. The Chestertons were proud old people, and with the acute sensitive- ness that always accompanies extreme pride, they shrank painfully from having their family matters made the theme of babbling vulgar tongues at every OMNIA VINCIT AMOR. 139 *' cat -lap" that took place in the town. Already meddling old maids and envious matrons of their own clique had made them perfectly au courant of the gossip, for there was no lack of cancan about, and the society, espe- cially when demolition of reputation ^was the subject, might have been com- pared to a " heap of embers, which, when brought together in contact, burst into a flame, and devoured up everything." The art of spreading scandal has been wisely likened to pin - making. There is usually some truth as founda- tion, according to the old French pro- verb — " II rHy a pas de fumee sans feu^^ and that may represent the wire; this passes from hand to hand, whilst one 140 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. gives it a polish, another a head, another a point, and so on. Maurice Lynn was apparently in an eligible position to marry. Burke's "Landed Gentry" gave his family, and the social status they had held in Wor- cestershire, in full. He seemed to be his own master, and under these cir- cumstances his behaviour rendered him a likely mark for virulent discussion. That there must be something sub rosd to make him act as he was doing, was voted an undisputed fact ; and with this suggestion administered to them homoeopathically, in small but frequent doses, it was no w^onder Sir John and his spouse grew distrustful of the man w^ho seemed to be only a sort of "de- trimental" after all — a mere stumblino- block in their daughter's path to form- OMNIA VINCIT AMOR. 141 ing a more brilliant alliance, and, in fact, accepting what to worldly folks is the ne plus ultra of terrestrial bliss, the coronet of a peeress, — for Violet had no paucity of offers, both from titled men and commoners. Her fortune in itself, was a sufficient bait for needy noblemen seeking to re- suscitate their finances, had she been hideous as a Gorgon ; but wealth, united to a beauty, that in its radiance completely paled the loveliness of other women, made her a beautiful and golden prize, naturally desired by most who looked upon her. Poor Maurice, in the midst of all his short- comings, was assuredly no " detrimental ;" he loved the girl too truly to be selfish, and he never attempted to monopolize her by word or deed, if a rival appeared 142 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES, in the field ; but would yield her up, without a murmur, to any aspirant to her society, although his cheek would grow pale as death, as he watched her from his distant corner, on another man's arm; and up in his breast would rise an involuntary sigh, smothered back by a valiant effort — a sigh which though voiceless, never failed in finding an echo in the heart of her whom he had relinquished, accompanied by a mutinous feeling at his unselfishness in giving her up. The diurnal meetings were brought to a summary termination, by a sudden decision of Sir John's to eschew parties for a while. Invitations were steadily refused, and eyes as curious as Argus's were kept on un- happy Violet's movements, so that the lovers were as totally separated by the insurmountable barriers that conventional- OMNIA VINCIT AMOR. 143 ism often raises, as though miles of land and sea had divided them from one another; but Eloisa and Abelard were not the only fortunate pair that rejoiced when " Heaven first taught letters for the wretch's aid, Some banished lover, or some captive maid." CHAPTER III. IMPARADISED IN ONE ANOTHER S ARMS. " Not Jove himself can now make void The joy that winged the flying hour; The certain blessing once enjoyed Is safe beyond the Godhead's power. Nought can recall the acted scene; What hath been, spite of Jove, hath been !" '?'? Oh, love ! oh, fire ! once he drew With one long kiss my whole soul through My lips, as sunlight drinketh dew !" Tennyson. NFINITELY more dangerous to peace became the inter- views, perhaps doubly sweet because they were stolen ; for what fruit << IHTT^AT^ AT^TC-r,T^ " IMPARADISED. 145 is so delicious on earth as the fruit that is forbidden ? The meetings that were unsanctioned by the presence of parents, unwitnessed by the prying eyes of the world, could not be silent ones, and the burning words that Maurice had bravely restrained himself from uttering in the solitude of crowds and ball-rooms, burst involuntarily and vehemently from his lips, surrounded by sylvan shades, and wdth no one near him but the woman that he madly loved. He could have ex- claimed with the poet — "No eye to watch, and no tongue to wound us, All earth forgot, and all heaven around us," as he stood with her clasped closely in his arms. The two had not met for what, count- ing by Cupid's Almanac, was an eternity, though calculating the time by the com- VOL. I. 10 146 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. monplace method of seconds, minutes, hours, and days, a fortnight might have summed the period of probation. Any way, the souls of both were literally thirsting for a sight of one another, just for one long look, one fervent hand- clasp. Chance favoured them at last, and seizing the golden opportunity, Maurice slipped into Yi's little palm a note, pre- pared ages before — a tiny billet, measur- ing not more than a couple of inches in circumference, but containing more en- trancing food for the imagination than the most romantic, closely written, three-volumed novel, author ever pro- duced. The midnight hour, the hour in which the outcast and the homeless prowl out, too-ether with the hardened felon that " THirr^.T^ A-r^TCT.,. " IMPARADISED. 147 shuns the light, and the wretched being to whom that hght is a hateful mockery. Yet there was one who kept a tryst in this hour, whose days had seen far more of sunshine than of shade, one whose ways were good and pure, and whose breast harboured no guile. It was one of those sultry summer nights when the vaulted sky is shadowed by hazy clouds, with just here and there a twinkling star shining down through them. But even if, instead of this, the heavens had been one mighty expanse of '^ silver sheen," it would have been almost impossible to distinguish the contour of the form that glided, closely cloaked, under the trees. All that could be seen of the delicate apparition, was a pair of bright dark eyes, restless as they 10— i 148 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. hurriedly glanced from side to side. A pair of eyes that loohed a rendezvous. Yiolet crept noiselessly along, with a step so wondrously light, that her tiny feet w^ould hardly have dashed away the dew from a daisy, or bent the swaying stalk of the tenderest fern ; and she started perceptibly like a guilty things at each low whisper of the west wind, at each trembling of a feathery spray in the breeze, and at each rustle of a fallen leaf, stirred by the trail of her training skirt. The eiFort that it had cost her to go thus far alone, and at such an hour, was so great, that she sank half-faint- ing down upon the trunk of an old elm. For an instant or so, she scarcely seemed to breathe, her cheek flushings " IMPARADISED." 149 and lier heart beating to suffocation. The impropriety of a meeting at the dead of night appeared to represent to her pure and fresh young mind the terrible aspect of a crime. She had but a short time before, in the sanctuary of her own bed-room, absolutely trembled with impatience to be where she was, ^nd now she would have given the Avorld never to have come ! She feared one instant that Maurice might fail in keeping the appointment; the next moment she dreaded his comins; to find her waiting for him. What should she do ? retrace her steps at once ? Alas ! she might never look upon him again if her resolution to return home was carried out, so — she stayed. She looked very lovely on the lowly seat she had chosen; the moon was 150 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. rising slowly higher and higher, and she sat bathed in a sheet of light. Oppressed with the sultriness of the night, she had unfastened her cloak, and it had partially fallen off her, revealing the white swan-like throat, and display- ing the symmetry of her figure. Her hat lay neglected by her, and in the restlessness of watching, she had pushed her hair aside, and escaping from the confining comb, the lustrous masses hung in undulating waves below her waist. With her white garments gleaming in the moonlight, and her hand like a snow- flake, pressed upon her breast, she looked like a " spirit from above that had wandered down to earth." A step resounded on the turf, and for the very first time in her life, Yiolet was caught in her lover^s embrace, with 151 his lips against her cheek. " Imparadised in one another's arms," the rapid beating of their hearts was all the sound they heard, except that to amorous ears the gentle flutter of Cupid's wings might have been audible, as he flew through the air close by ! Maurice felt that the fairest creature the earth held, was his ! upon hi& breast ; her long hair swept over him, she loved him, he alone occupied her heart ! What more of happiness could life ever brino; to him ao^ain? He was alone with her for the very first time, — he could gaze upon her beauty, with no stranger intermeddling with his joy, with no other eye feasting on the charms that his jealous soul had longed so many a time to hide away from all but him- self, — and yet he restrained himself from 152 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. many a word and look that miglit have too fully revealed the ardent feelings withm him. He had for this girl, unprotected and alone as she w^as, at an hour when all the tenderest feelmgs of his nature were aroused, and when all the surroundings were provocative of human passions, a sentiment that was of the purest and noblest kind. He was close to her; the fragrance of her tresses,*; of her breath, swept over him, her luminous eyes gazed up into his so lovingly out of their frank depths, and he felt the sweet contact of her form ; and yet an invisible distance divided them that he would not have dared, or even desired to encroach on, one step. Her youth, her innocence, her evident faith and love, were all-powerful pleaders " IMPARADISED." 153 in her cause, and for their sake he kept the strictest guard over his words and actions lest they should lead him out of himself. It was wrong of him to have tempted her there, but '' sin itself lost half its evil, by. losing all its grossness," "My dear one, my ownP^ he whis- pered, drawing her close to him, " but a short time back, and I believed that no love could stir my pulses, and now I know that my heart lives and beats as ardently as man's can do ! Until I saw you I was an infidel in affection. It appears to me as if my past life has been one long miserable prose — that the poetry of existence is only opening before me now !" "Did you love me at first sight?" she asked him, shyly. 154 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. " At once ! It seemed as if my eyes and my heart went to meet yours in tlie very first glance! And should not love always come thus, instantaneously, spontaneously, my darling? But then it should also be overpowering and lasting as eternity itself! Oh, Violet! will eternal love be ours? It is now that I feel I really care to live. Until I knew you but why should I speak of that wretched time — let the " dead past bury its dead." The future, with your presence to make sunshine for me, will atone for all I have suf- fered — for the bright illusions of boy- hood rudely dispelled — for the lone and loveless life of many a weary year !" And as his thoughts travelled back quickly in sad retrospection, his voice " IMPARADISED." 155 sounded almost painfully mournful to her ear. " My dearest ! if you only knew how sad a life mine has been, your womanly heart would plead for forgiveness for one who has, alas ! no right to hold you thus! But it seems hard, terribly hard always to resist, when the thing you most long for on earth is within your reach ! I have resisted to the utmost ; I can do no more! I want your love, Yiolet — will you give it to me, in spite of anything that may happen — in spite of any barriers that may rise up between us?" "In spite of anything, Maurice!" and she blushed rosy red as that name passed her lips for the first time. "Do not look so sad, for I love you with all my heart, dear Maurice !" she 156 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. said beseechingly, flinging her pretty arms round his neck, and forgetting her maidenly reserve in the natural desire of an honest true woman to see the man she loved happy. " Maurice, why did you never tell me that you cared for me? It would have been far kinder, far better to have done so! It w^ould have saved me so much pain, and then they might have known it at home, and we should not have been parted all this time! Why have you not spoken before? Tell me," she coaxed. " My own, donH ask me ! I cannot even now — I dare not tell you the exact truth. God knows it has been hard to keep my lips closed, when words of love for you were ever hover- ing upon them. But, Yi, we love one " IMPARADISED." 157 another; can we live without each other? Will you sacrifice a little for my sake, will you consent to meet me here some- times, and to keep our meetings con- cealed? Miserable circumstances, over which I have no control at present^ make me ask this — beg this on my knees," and he threw himself before her and grasped her two hands. " Will you grant this, Violet? For you must know that if it were otherwise, not a day, not an hour should pass before I claimed you openly before the whole world !" Poor Violet ! She was a good and well-principled girl, naturally averse to everything that was underhand and savouring of deceit, but she was like wax in the grasp of the man she wor- shipped and believed in so implicitly, 158 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. and he could have moulded her to his slightest will. Upon his upturned face the "twin stars" shone down a perfect firmament of tenderness, and away from her memory flew the golden precepts of rectitude and truth that she had been taught so carefully, and trained in so strictly. Love ruled — mighty, omnipotent — but with a sway so unutterably sweet that she never dreamed of resisting, and she murmured out in the low and cooing tones of a dove to its mate — " It is wrong and very deceitful — but I will do wdiatever you ask, for I could not bear the misery now of never seeing you !" The misery of absence would indeed be aggravated sevenfold, she thought, now that she had tasted of the ''know- " IMPARADISED." 159 ledge of good and evil," and had learnt that to lay her head on his breast, and to listen to the words that fell from his lips, was a fore-glimpse of a terrestrial paradise she had pictured, but never imagined really existed. Then came a recollection of her parents — their anger if her duplicity was discovered, and she asked anxiously — "But it will not be for long, this con- cealment, Maurice ?" " Xo, dearest, not for long, God willing ! The day may come sooner than we think when no silence will be necessary. Until then you will be true to me? — true to the very core?" he said, passionately, and she pressed closer to him in mute but earnest assent. The moon grew larger and larger, and sailed in majesty above like a 160 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. gigantic Koh-i-noor upon the shifting fleecy clouds, and the lovers looked up at it, and felt their love increase each moment, like the glorious planet. And whilst it flooded all around wdth silver, they traced its flickering light upon each leaf, and indulged in the fond fancies that naturally spring from such an hour. Before they parted the summer dawn was breaking, with a faint pink tinge just here and there ; and the birds, that had been eavesdroppers to the murmured love ^vhispers were twittering amongst the branches and flinging off" the dew from their glistening plumage. "Maurice, have you ever loved any other woman?" she asked. Poor child, she did so thirst in that most blissful hour of her life, for the precious assurance that every really 161 loving woman craves for — namely, that the man she adores has never expe- rienced in the past, the feelings that are his and hers, in the present. Rechauffes never satisfy like fresh originals, no matter how much an ex- pert hand may endeavour to flavour them, and render them palatable. Maurice hesitated ere he replied; his conscience smote him sorely enough for having yielded to the temptation of meeting her, of avowing his love, and of receiving her sweet confession in re- turn. He felt that he could not add deceit to the fault he had already com- mitted, even though the deceit might be denominated mildly, a "white lie," an ignoring or diplomatic evasion of her question. The simple, but heartfelt pathos of her VOL. I. 11 162 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. tone touched Mm to the heart. He knew that all deception in the course of life is '^nothing but a falsehood reduced to practice — a lie, passing from words into things;" and he loved her far too sincerely to allow her deliberately to rest under any false impression. Yet in spite of the occurrences of the past, he knew his feelings for this girl were no rechauffes^ and that what he had exaggerated and dignified as true '4ove'^ before, had been nothing but a phantasm of youth. Taking her hands into his own, and look- ing steadfastly into the brown eyes, ^vith an expression that made their owner believe implicitly every Avord he uttered, he said — " You are my first love, and my last 1 If you ever cast me off, never shall woman on this earth, hear words of " IMPARADISED." 163 affection from my lips. But you never will desert me, darling! You will cling to me? — have faith in me — and when the blessed time comes, belong to me, my dearest one! Promise me this, just once more before you go." " I will always love you, and will be your wife whenever you ask me, Maurice — I swear it !'' " Then seal your oath thus, and thus," he said, kissing her lips for the first time during their interview, and feeling dreadfully guilty at his deed the while. What business had he to succumb to the weakness? Only, he could not deny himself just for once ; when those lips were so near him, invitingly luscious as twin cherries ripened beneath southern skies, ready to be plucked, and yielding to his touch ! 11—3 164 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. It was very wrong of him, but few men in his place would have resisted, even as he had done. "May Heaven keep you for me, my own!" were the last words that kept ringing in Violet's little pink ears, as she fell asleep with a happy smile parting her lips, and a fervent prayer for her lover in her heart. CHAPTER IV. •'uncertain, coy, and hakd to please." *' By those sweet eyes where light is ever playing, Where Love in depths of shadow holds his throne, And by those lips which give whate'er thou'rt saying, Or grave or gay, a music of their own ! A music far beyond all minstrel's playing : I love but thee ! I love but thee ! *' By that fair brow where innocence reposes As pure as moonlight sleeping upon snow. And by that cheek whose fleeting blush discloses A hue too bright to bless this world below, And only fit to dwell on Eden's roses : I love but thee ! I love but thee!" — Moore. LEVEN A.M., in the most per- fect little baclielor's apart- ment in the world, commenc- ing from the grey and gold-starred walls, 166 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. and rich oriental hangings, down to the thick yielding Turkey carpet under foot. The furniture of carved hois de chene, was an importation from Paris; some ex- quisite proofs of Landseer and Herring, a statuette of Mercury by Thorwaldsen, and another of Bacchus and Silenus, besides one or two rare vases of old Buon Retiro porcelain, adorned the room. A huge tiger skin was spread before the fireplace, and on it, extended at full length, lay a magnificent deerhound. In a luxurious arm-chair, with his feet rest- ing upon the sleeping dog, lounged Arthur Gordon. " By Jove, I know she'll end by driving me mad, stark, staring mad ! It would be easier to follow the caprices of a feu foiled than hers! Talk of the delusion of a mirage! Why it's nothing compared "uncertain, coy." 167 to lier ! and as to the tortuous windings of her will, the evolutions of a serpent would be a joke to them! Oh, Letty, I owe you several! and if I ever have it in my power to pay you out for *-the dance you are leading me, I swear I'll do it. She's such a dear, soft little thing though, I think I would try what effect love w^ould have first! How nice she looked last night !" And as an appropriate accompaniment to this last little "spoony" reflection, he w^histled a bar or two of— " She danced like a fairy, She sang like a bird," "But how devilish ill she behaved to me! Why cant I screw up enough courage to ' put it to the touch and win or lose it all,' instead of incessantly dangling about ajiche-ing my feelings 163 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. everywhere like a fool?" and in his impatience he struck the dog with his boot. "Beg your pardon, Hector, old fellow! Yoa are about the only thing that really loves me, I believe!" he sighed, stooping to pat the animal, who by way of showing his acceptance of the apology, licked his master's hand affectionately, and wagged his heavy tail slowly backwards and for- wards, in a serious regal fashion that was peculiar to himself. The grievance of the night before, on which Arthur was so bitterly ruminating, had consisted of a rebuff from Miss Lettice Grey, in one of her ordinary capricious fits. He had hovered near her and her party for some length of time, anxiously await- ing a chance of a word, and longing yet fearing to approach the girl, wdien Mrs. "uncertain, coy." 160 Smith, a kind-hearted though worldly woman, divining the state of his mind, suddenly remarked, — " Letty, you have not been dancing much this evening, there's a set just form- ing, and Sir Arthur Gordon looks inclined to join it." " Thanks, Janet dear, but I am very tired, and Mr. Terence has just offered to give me an ice," and the wilful fairy, casting a sly, triumphant glance at Arthur's crestfallen countenance, moved quietly away. " It's no good — she is determined to avoid me, she positively hates me," mur- mured poor Gordon to himself, as he lit his cigar and sadly wended his Avay home- wards. The depression of the night ^vas heavy upon him still, as he lay back with his 170 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. eyes half closed, " chewing the cud of sweet and bitter fancy." '^Open Sesame!" exclaimed a clear ringing voice, and light-hearted, and fresh as a lark, Reggy Peel entered the room, " Hallo ! Arthur ; what's up ? Your face looks as blank as my account at my banker's! Hipped, eh?" " No, not particularly. Have some breakfast?" "Yes, I don't mind; why you haven't touched a thing ! Try a glass of this Yolnay, and some of these cotelettes aux tomates. They are first rate. They'll give you more stamina than that Soda and B, you seem to be imbibing. How did you amuse yourself last night?" "Not much; there was no one worth speaking to scarcely." "Did you see Miss Grey's new man? She took up with that fellow Terence, and seemed to have eyes for no one else. What can she see in him?" " Yes, what can she see in him, or in all the other puppies that she takes up and puts down again, as if they were senseless dummies, and had no feelings whatever ? she has no more heart than that chair there !" and he kicked the offending sample of Miss Lettice Grey's nature, and angrily and viciously champed away at the drooping ends of his moustache. " She is a desperate flirt, and no mis- take," asserted Reggy, adding in a com- miserating tone, '^ I pity her husband if she ever has one !" Arthur's blood boiled up to fever heat in a second. " Talk of women's spite, why you fellows 172 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. beat them hollow! What on earth has Miss Grey done to rile you, that you should depreciate her like that?" "Why, Arthur!"— and Reggy Peel, with his mouth full of pate de foie gras, and his eyes wide open, stared at Gordon in astonishment. "Oh! I see which way the land lies I forgive and forget, old chap, and accept the sincere wishes of your humble servant for success. Bless me, I have been blind as a mole, not to find out that the spell of other days was over you !" The two men smoked away in silence for several minutes after this. " What's become of Lynn, Arthur?" " He was ailing, more in mind than body, I fancy, and has gone away for a few days' change." " That accounts for the milk in the -cocoanut," as a vulgar old Puerto Rico Consul used to say in the F. 0." ^' I wondered why Miss Chesterton danced four times consecutively with Lord Harcourt. Is that to be a match? She does not look as if she cared one straw about him, and he has a little affair on hand elsewhere. A villa at Brompton, and a dark green brougham, with a tiny face with big blue eyes peeping out of it; but of course that needn't clash with a matrimonial alliance in high life. Cecile's steps tend towards Cremorne and the Argyle, and the future Lady Harcourt's dainty tread will be confined to more exclusive soil." " It is lucky for the ambitious old Chestertons, that Lynn has taken himself out of the way at present." " Rubbish, mon cher^'^ ejaculated Gordon. 174 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. " Harcourt isn't a bad sort of fellow, although his morals may not be A 1, but he is much too lied with cocottes to contemplate marriage. As for Maurice, he never went in for flirtation in his life — men of his calibre never do — they are in the habit of taking everything too much au serieux. I would not mind wagering a good round sum that he never looked upon Yi Chesterton but as a beautiful clever girl, whose conversa- tion is more edifying than half the ' Misses' one meets." " If there is nothing beyond a common- place sentiment between Lynn and Miss Chesterton, I am egregiously mistaken! Any one can see that she loves him, even by her eyes. But I must be off, and having reversed the adage of ^ business first and pleasure afterwards,' I will tell UNCERTAIN, COY. 175 you my principal reason for dropping in upon you this morning. Mrs. Smith — Marmaduke Smith I should say, for la belle Jeannette confided to me the other day, that without that euphonious prenom^ her cognomen was perfectly odious to her, has sent you a little message. She gives a fete champetre to-day at some tumble- down place that she calls " classic ruins ;" t}iQ party are to meet at her house at three precisely, and she par- ticularly desires your company. Will you go? " Perhaps, if I feel up to it by and by-" " Ta-ta, then, and au revoir I hope !" Punctually at three o'clock, Gordon reached the appointed rendezvous. He 176 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. had fortified the inner man by a strong cup of coffee, and one or two petits veri^es, by the aid of which he had managed to pull his spirits up to the requisite pitch. The fete champeire was nothing more or less in itself, than the stereotyped pic- nic of all classes. A ramble over un- comfortable ground, detached couples whispering soft nothings behind a hedge, or within the shadow of a dilapidated archway, and groups of people, growing rapidly hilarious over frothy Moet and baskets of broken victuals. But if an insight into the hearts of the revellers had been feasible, the fete would have acquired far greater interest for the looker-on. The hostess herself was a study, as she sat there comparing furtively and "uncertain, coy." 177 regretfully ^^ggy Peel's thoroughbred look and features, with the plebeian physiognomy of her vulgar but good- natured stockbroker, who, desirous of doing honour to the party, had donned the most flashy tie and waistcoat his w^ardrobe could supply, and who, suf- fering from the united efi*ects of the summer sun and champagne, persisted in energetically passing over his rubi- cund visage a large yellow bandana, that was his wife's pet aversion. Let- tice Grey, too, was in an unsociable mood. Her ordinary vivaciousness seemed to have entirely deserted her, and she appeared both bored 'dud preoccupee. It might have been chance, or a chance aided strongly by purpose, that made her creep stealthily away from the scene of festivity towards the wood- VOL. I. 12 178 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. land sequestered paths, where she amused herself by crowning her pretty brow with wild - flowers, until she im- personated the loveliest Ophelia in the world. She was not however doomed to waste her sweetness on the desert air. Arthur had followed on her track, and was an admiring spectator of the picture she made. In the sudden surprise of actually finding herself in close juxtaposition with her ex -fiance^ she forgot for an instant that they had quarrelled, and starting forward, she held out her hands towards him ; but the next moment recollecting the past, she dropped them again, and half averting her face, stood like a statue of Undine, waiting until her lover should with his voice and "uncertain, coy." 179 touch awaken the soul within her into life. He was not tardy in obeying what both instinct and inclination bade him, and in a trice the girl's slight figure was in his arms, the flower - decked tresses lay on his bosom, and two pairs of lips ratified the contract of mutual forgiveness and an everlasting truce. " Oh, Letty! it seems such a century of grief and pain since we parted," he whispered. " For Heaven's sake become my wife ere aught can separate us again !" Lettice nestled up lovingly into his embrace, but pouted like a spoilt child. "Not so fast, Arthur. You were very unkind, very cruel to me, and I 12—2 180 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. have not forgiven you yet. I don't be- lieve I ever shall." '' Not forgive me, my pet? Why it is / who ought to pardon you! But now, try not to be wilful for once in your life. In the first flush of my re- newed happiness, do let me enjoy myself without any specks overhead. I am so happy, little woman! — happy as a king — holding you like this, and being allowed to " The rest of the sentence was in- distinct, being " acted instead of spoken," and Letty had to submit, and was forced to cry de grace! before she was released. • '' Arthur, promise never to be jealous or doubtful of me again." '' Never ! I swear it, unless you make inc so ; but never mind the past, dar- "uncertain, coy. 181 ling, we have the present and the glo- rious future, and the sooner that future begins the better for both of us, I say ? or who knows but something may occur to dash away the cup of happiness from our lips a second time." She was seated on the grass by this time, with Gordon half lying beside her. He held her hands firmly in his own, and Lettice, rosy and pale alter- nately, gazed down on the dear chest- nut head, and longed to imprint a kiss on his clustering curls. " Could you bear to part from me again?" he asked her. '' No, I could not ;" and Xh^ light- ness was gone from her tone. " You cannot have suffered more than I have, <lear. I never forgot you for a mo- ment." 182 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. " Then all your avoidance of me was mere acting — your apparent dislike a sham. Oh, Letty!" And he shook his head gravely at her, but his eyes laughed as they met her deprecating glance. " I am quite content nou\ any way, that I know you are mine again, that my eyes seem to see you and you only in the world, that I am at your feet, and that my existence is all sunshine." " Arthur, what syren has been teach- ing you the art of making pretty speeches ?" " No one but my own heart. Look here, Letty, I have never loved any other but you. I vowed, when you discarded me, that no other woman should ever have an influence over me; "tjncertain, coy." 18B besides what chance could any one have of '^ainino; the heart that was filled with you, only you ?" "And there is no one else you care for, Arthur, anywhere, in some little corner? Tell me," questioned the girl with a moue mutine, and with her breast heaving with the jealousy of a southern maiden. " No one, dearest." " Ton honour?" "On my life!" " I should die if there were," she said, passionately, with great flashing eyes. "I believe I should kill her, and you too! or neither, perhaps, but only my- self," she added, in a sad little voice. All the flippant repartee that characte- rized her had died entirely out of her manner, and she only remembered 184 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. the truth, the depth of her love for this man, whom she had so nearly lost for ever. "My darling child!" — and after the custom of lovers, for awhile their dis- course w^as completely made up of sweet phrases, of which tautology was the principal feature, and which a third party would inevitably have stigmatized as hosh, " Arthur, they say that excess of hap- piness makes people very selfish; but I do not think that. Being so happy my- self, I wish Violet was happy too! Poor girl, she was looking awfully ill yesterday; and sometimes, when I pop in suddenly, 1 find her eyes all full of tears; and there are tears in her voice as well when she answ^ers sadly, ^Nothing,' in reply to my anxious questions. I cannot "uncertain, coy." 185 imagine why Mr. Lynn acts so very strangely." " Maurice Lynn ? Why, what on earth has he to do with Miss Chesterton's illness or happiness ?" "I am certain he cares for her; and yet he has never really proposed. He must see how she loves him, if only by her eyes !" Gordon started. Letty had uttered almost the very same words as had fallen from Keggy Peel's mouth that very morning. Could there really be any foundation for an idea that he had scouted as ridiculous and improbable. "Maurice care for Miss Chesterton, and propose to her ! Why, you are dreaming ! Lynn is a married man !'' " Married !" she cried. "Oh, how cruel, dishonourable of him, to have behaved 1S6 T^OT WHILE SHE LIVES. as he has done! Poor Yi, it will break her heart to hear this ! But who will dare to tell her ? And you, Arthur, you must have surely seen what was passing, and yet you never stretched out a saving hand to her. ^Vhy did you not mention a fact long ago, that every one here is in ignorance of?" " I was far too much occupied with you, Letty, too perplexed and miserable about my own troubles. I never thought of Maurice as a lover; he is usually so cold, so wrapt up in his books, and I fancied he rather disliked women. Be- sides, he knew he w^as bound long ago, and that some reason existed which pre- vented him from having a divorce. You must be making a mistake, my dear one; I sincerely hope you are, or I shall never forgive myself for having been the un- ''uncertain, coy. 187 fortunate medium of introduction between them." " No mistake, but sad, sober, stern reality ! I shall go home at once, Arthur. I could not stand the dancing and laugh- ing at this fete, when I know what a fearful trial is in store for Violet. We were schoolfellows together, and have always been such close friends. She is so good, Arthur, and I am so sorry for her,'^ she sobbed. "Don't cry so, for mercy's sake, my pet, my little one ; I cannot bear the sight of your tears. Nerve yourself to the task of telling her the truth; you will do it better than any one else. Let her be undeceived as soon as possible; and we must trust that pride or anger will give her strength to bear the blow bravely." CHAPTER V. MARRIED ! When hope is chidden that fain of bhss would tell, And love forbidden in the breast to dwell ; When fettered by a viewless chain, We turn and gaze, and turn again ; Oh, death were mercy to the pain Of those who bid ' Farewell !' " Heher. Eyes look your last, arms take your last embrace !" Sliakspeare. HOT day, savouring almost of the Tropics, with the brilliancy of the blue sky unflecked and untempered by speck or MARRIED ! 189 cloud, and only enough air stirring to waft the scent of the summer flowers into a pleasant room, whose green jalousies were partially closed to exclude the garish noon. A charming demi-jour light fell on richly gilded jardiniers heaped over with various freshly cut blossoms ; on costly tables loaded with expensive hric-a-brac ; on soft downy cushions fashioned in Eastern looms ; and numerous objects of virtu, denoting considerable wealth, with the ofttimes unusual accom- paniment of a pure and refined taste. The v/alls were of a delicate cream colour, panelled in dead gold; a few choice oils embellished them here and there. One or two rare bronzes and some priceless specimens of old china adorned the white marble mantelpiece, and a couple of huge mirrors in elaborately carved frames, placed 190 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. within opposite niclies, reflected the whole of the interior of the apartment, as well as the form of its sole occupant. At one end of a luxurious lounge half- reclined Vi Chesterton. A book lay carelessly in her lap, open; but had a curious observer peeped over her shoulder at its contents, they would have been puzzled to decipher letters that were upside down — even the pages were uncut, although the girl's dainty fingers played restlessly with an ivory paper-knife, with the blade of which she unconsciously turned over leaf after leaf of the volume. Her head was bent slightly downwards and her eyes were completely veiled under their thick lashes, as though she did not care to reveal their tell-tale glances even to the mirror opposite. Every now MARRIED ! 191 and then she sent a rapid furtive look towards the casement, at each sound of a twig fluttering against the sill, or a human footfall on the gravel paths of the garden. Since the ball at which Maurice had first seen her, she was strangely altered. She had sufi*ered from the million hopes, fears, and uncertainties attendant on Love, so erroneously apostrophized as the divine passion, when to most mortals it presents oftener the torments of Inferno. Violet's countenance, that was wont to be characterized by a calm and regal type of loveliness — lacking perhaps, in the estimation of many, a sufficient mo- bility of feature in its rigidly classical contour — had lost its erewhile serenity, and in lieu of a want of animation showed various expressions flitting quickly 192 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. across the pretty red lips and shining out of the great dark eyes. She looked a little pale and wan too^ even a shade older, and her figure was not so full as of yore, though none the less symmetrical and graceful. The warm summer afternoon had lagged wonderfully on its course to her, in spite of its beauty and brightness, as she sat there alone intently listening Avith a strained ear, and impatience in her breast, for a tread which to her bore upon it the "music of the spheres." Her people were absent, and she had, after much hesitation and w^avering, yielded to her lover's earnest solicitations, to give him a rendezvous at her own house. The fact was that their meetings had somehow^ become far more difficult to compass than they used to be in earlier married! 193 days. Fate seemed to have set its face dead against them, and no sooner was an interview arranged than some circum- stance cropped up, as it were on purpose to prevent its taking place. The house was built in villa fashion, with long French windows opening down to the lawn, and it was through one of these that Maurice would come. She sat still as a marble statue of patience, out- wardly. Inwardly, her heart was beating fast, and exaggerating the length of each w^inged moment into hours, as she looked hurriedly at the tiny jewelled watch at her side, and marvelled at the snail-like progress of time on this particular day. Over the stone ledge of the window stepped at length a foot, but not Ins ; and she started up, annoyed at the un- VOL. I. 13 194 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. timely intrusion, to feel Letty's cold hands clasping hers, and Letty's unusually pallid face, with a sad and almost scared ex- pression in her blue eyes, looking piteously into her own. "What is it?" she exclaimed, whilst a firm conviction came over her that, if ill news was at hand, it must of necessity relate to the one beloved object on whom every feeling and thought she had, turned. " Nothing, dear ; nothing! Now, please sit down, and let me talk to you." " Cannot you come a little later ? " Vi stammered, blushing rosy red, and feeling terribly unmaidenly and guilty as she asked the question. "I am anxious to be alone just now," she pleaded, coaxingly; then seeing her companion disinclined to move, she sum- married! 195 moned up courage to speak more de- cidedly, fancying that each moment might bring him. "Do not be angry, Letty, but indeed I must be alone now." "Alone, Vi? What for? If it is to see Mr. Lynn, yoa cannot ever see him again !" " Never see him again ! "What is the matter? What has happened? Speak, Letty. He is not ill or hurt ?" "Far worse!" " Not dead'^ she shrieked out, throwing herself down on her knees, and catching nervously at her friend's arm. " No, no, not dead, Yi ; but you must look upon him as dead to you. You must see him as he really is — worthless, dishonourable, deceitful ; a man to be shunned by you — despised !" 13—2 196 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. "I think your senses must have left you, or you would never speak to me like this," Violet said, coldly and delibe- rately, rising slowly from her kneeling position, and drawing up her figure to its full queenly height, whilst her eyes flashed down scornfully and even a little contemptuously at Maurice's de- famer. ^^ Do you know how I love him ? — re- verence him, worship him ? — and yet you dare, — yes, Letty, 'dare' is the proper word for me to use, although you may resent it, — to breathe such bitter words as worthless, dishonourable, in conjunc- tion with his name! Are you leagued with all the rest to vilify him in my eyes? It is useless! for these eyes will be fast closed within the grave before I credit one foul slander of the man MARRIED ! 197 who lias deigned to let me love hiirj, and to love me in return !" " Do you know what this man has done? He has deceived you by his looks, by his tones, even if he has failed in courage to utter lies ! He has made you believe in his truth and honesty, when his life is one long falsehood ! Violet, you must give him up!" " Never ! so help me Heaven !" the girl said, determinedly, whilst her lip curled at the very suggestion of infi- delity to any woman who had once loved Maurice, or been cared for by him. '' So long as he is true to me, I will be true to him. Nothing on '€arth but his own will can ever sever -us." " Yi, you know my only desire is for 198 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. your happiness. I should be the last to hurt you by maligning the man you care for. Believe me, he does not deserve your affection, dear ;" then, seeing an incredulous smile on Violet's face, she added, hastily, " Oh, Yi, forgive me, but I must tell you, — Maurice Lynn is a mar- ried man !" "Married! My God!" and poor Violet fell like a crushed flower to the ground, insensible. The next moment the footfall for which she had listened so eagerly, and longed for so earnestly, but to w^hich her ear was deaf now, echoed on the garden-path and crossed the room with hurried steps, and Maurice Lynn, with astonished wonderment depicted on every feature of his face, blanched as a spectre's, lifted up his love, and held her on his MARRIED ! 191> breast, whilst Lettice with trembling fingers sought restoratives for her aid. " What ails her, Miss Grey ? Tell me, I beseech of you," interrogated poor Lynn, aghast, as he noted Letty's averted countenance, and watched breathlessly, but vainly, for the colour to revisit Violet's cheek, and the light to come back to her eyes. " You had better leave at once before she revives," she answered him, curtly and angrily, as she glanced compassion- ately at her friend. " Poor girl, how she suffers ! You have almost killed her by your cruelty !" " My cruelty ! Great Heavens ! what do you mean. Miss Grey ? Be explicit, I pray you ! Cruelty ! /, who would willingly sacrifice every hope on earth 200 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. to give lier the smallest happiness ! what have I done ? but love her — adore her, as all must do," he said, passionately. " Oh, speak to me just one word, Vi, my darling — my own !" he implored, W'hilst he chafed her icy hands, and pressed her inanimate form vehemently against him, and even imprinted a long and fervent kiss on the pale brow lying upon his shoulder, callous to, if not forgetful of, Letty's very presence in the room. After a little time she revived, but it had been infinitely better for her to have died in that trance, than to have awakened to find her life a misery — her love a crime. And she spoke to him at last the words he had begged for; but she spoke MARRIED ! 201 them in a voice tliat he could scarcely realize as the one that had so often and so tenderly breathed sweetest love- words to him — a voice harsh, almost stern, uncompromising in its accents, hard as adamant in its ring. Drawing herself slowly and shiveringly away from his retaining embrace, she essayed to re- ofain her calmness, and strove to stand erect and firm, but her figure swayed in spite of her efforts, and she was forced to lean upon Letty, who clasped her affectionately, and in whose eyes great shining drops gathered as she marked the real suffering of the two before her. " Maurice, is it true that you are married ?" And poor wretched Violet bent upon him a long, steady, and harrowing gaze that seemed to look 202 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. hi in through and through, and to ques- tion and to crave for a denial to her question, with a mute but intense pathos and pleading in the once ra- diant, proud eyes, like the dying glance of a dumb animal stricken down by the very hand that had hitherto caressed it. No answer came. Maurice was si- lent perforce, for the only words that he could utter, and which would be corroborative of the miserable truth, seemed to cleave to his mouth, and he vainly essayed to articulate them ; and yet what could have been more pain- fully convincing to the girl than this very failure of speech ? He who asserted that small griefs can speak, but that great ones render us dumb, knew the human heart well. MARRIED I 203 Just for one second Maurice bowed his head down on tlie sofa near liim, and almost appeared to cower as if in shame at the discovery of his long- deception ; but the next moment he looked up with a valiant effort to ex- plain, and found that Letty had noise- lessly vanished from the scene, leaving Violet standing alone. A rapid move- ment, and he was before her, clasping her hands, pleading eagerly for pardon as for dear life — gazing passionately, pitifully upon the white cheek, the lips quivering with an intensity of emotion that she bravely strove to conceal, the eyes so touchingly mournful, with pu- pils dilated by unshed tears, and yet filled with a sort of resolute light as they sadly confronted his own. But he had only to look at her to know 204 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. that the death-blow to her happiness had failed to annihilate her love; that she was still unchanged; that the reso- lute spirit was but transitory; that his delinquencies had not dispossessed him of his power to turn at will the marble image of beauty before him into a creature of flesh and blood, rife with warmth and feeling ; and that by the mere contact of his touch he could tint its pale features with a deep crimson tide. He recalled to himself a thousand deliciously-whispered assurances that she had breathed, pledging herself to him in spite of anything that could occur; and he could not persuade himself that her pride and determination would prove dominant over the love that she had so often fully and freely vowed, MARIIIED ! 205 and he had so implicitly believed in. He would trust to the mightiness of that love now ; he must trust to it, for it was the only thing left to him to cling to, in the maelstrom of misery in which he was shipwrecked. He knew, and the knowledge was sweet balm to him too, that though he must seem in her eyes to have acted vilely^ yet she Avould never fail to hold out to him a saving hand, and if she could do so, would land him in a haven of safety and peace. They loved one another, and it would be death to part. Should he ask her, now that she knew everything, to go away with him, to forego the sanction of her parents, to defy the world, to leave her home with all its associations of innocence and happiness, to share 206 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. his fortunes in another land? His own, and his only ; worshipped and waited on by him as never empress was be- fore ; adored more than woman had ever been ; but still with her proud brow, that a diadem would have suited, branded with the fatal brand of in- famy, her purity blasted, her life a daily lie, her name unblessed by the holy title of ^' wife!" Should his be the cruel hand to hold to her lips the '^ cup of doubtful bliss " that must be drunk by those who believe in " all for love, and the world well lost?" When such terrible trials might await her at each turn, could he let his dear one, his innocent darling, run the gauntlet with the world's fierce scorn, and stand meekly by to see her spirit first wounded, MARRIED ! 207 then crushed, by perpetual slights, re- pulsed by all, rebuked by many a scof- fing word or covert sneer? Could he make up his mind to submit tamely to the bitterness of her humiliation, of knowing that, with all her peerless beauty and angelic nature, she would fall immeasurably lower in the social scale than the Messalinas of society who never hesitated to break the holiest ties for the gratification of passion or vanity, but who erred secretly, manag- ing to cast a mantle of outward re- spectability over their sins ? Could he survive the horrible torture of feeUng that, though his breast would pillow her head, his love would be powerless to insure peace to her heart? It was true that he had learnt to idolize her ; that he had garnered up 208 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. his soul in her ; that she had become part and parcel of his existence ; that her smile made him forget that Heaven existed not upon this earth ! He cursed bitterly, for her dear sake, the weakness that had taken hold of him, now that he was fully and most pain- fully awakened to a sense of what would have been right and honourable. He knew that he ought to have left her whilst her affection was yet young ; trusting that in the trials of absence the love that had only blossomed for him, might expand into flower for some happier man than himself; but it was not too late to make the sole amends that lay in his power, to leave her at once, and prevent all further sacrifice on her part for him. He never re- membered though that his self-abnegation MARRIED ! 209 -came but tardily, that lie had seared her heart with a wrong no other hand would be capable of erasing from it. He determined on going away at once, broken-hearted, but alone, trying to believe that "all was not utter darkness, because a black cloud overcast the sky — that when the gloom is most dense the brightness of the morn is nearest at hand;" but before he went he would have her pardon, nay even a reiteration of the love that in this hour seemed more precious than ever to him. " I have acted vilely — wickedly !" he began, in deprecating accents, ''but don't condemn me unheard! Listen to me for one moment, my darling! Have I in- deed been so much to blame that my heart would cling, in spite of me, to you ? That I yielded myself up at length to VOL. I. 14 210 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. a passion that I had in fact from the very first lost all real power to stem or control ? A passion a thousand times stronger than myself! That I gave the reins after many struggles, the magnitude of which none can tell, to a feeling that I ought to have curbed and tamed. Ought! How easily said, how seldom done ! A feeling that swept away by its depth and violence all recollection of honour and rectitude. I only remembered you! Oh, my own, I should have been more than mortal if I had possessed sufficient moral strength to sever with my own hands, by my own will, the link that has lately bound my life to all that could give it hope and joy. But although I have treated you horribly, I don't ask for mercy, or for pardon ; I want your heart to pay back the deep and undying love that fills married! 211 mine! And you do not hate me even now, Yi ! Though I deserve all your hatred and scorn to the uttermost, you even care for me still ! I feel it ; I see it in your dear face, your eyes, in the cold clamminess of these poor little hands that feel my kisses on them for the last time ! Think, Vi ! for the very last time /" " Xo more of this, I beg of you," she whispered, in broken tones, trying to with- draw her hand from him, but her voice had quite lost its hard adamantine tone, and her accents wxre breathed in a low soft, cadence, full of saddest music, that sounded like a dirge for lost happiness ! " I have been tried enough : I can bear no more," and the hands grew more icy still, that he held in his strong clasp, whilst big tears welled up fast, dimming her vision, and she endeavoured to avert 14—2 2lZ NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. her face, to hide its agitation from him. " Oh, Maurice, let me go, I beseech of you! for we must part now and for ever!" " Not yet, not yet, for God's sake, Vi !" he exclaimed ; and as the thought came to him, of the ' arid waste his existence would become when she was gone out of it, his voice grew hoarse and troubled. *' Darling, just think how many long and weary years we may both have to pasSj and do not try to shorten the space of this one little hour! Tell me that you wall strive, at any rate, not to think too harshly of me; that the very extent and madness of my love for you will in some measure plead its excuse, for I do love you, Violet, more, I think, than man ever loved Avoman before! I know it is very wrong of me to ask it, MARRIED ! 213 but Heaven will surely pardon me for the sake of the long suffering, the terrible expiation I have before me ! But I want you to lay your head just once more down upon my breast, and to put your lips upon mine, and say ' Good-bye' to me there! God knows my future lowers dark and gloomy enough. Do not grudge me the memory of a last caress. Let a happy vision of these moments rise up to cheer my lonely life sometimes ! I way 'belong,' as it is called, to another woman, but you know that I am yours to all eternity ; that I shall never know another love! Child, dont turn away from me: it cuts me to the very heart! You cannot surely be grown hard and cruel in so short a time?" "I do forgive you; I am not hard or cruel," she tried to articulate. 214 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. " Then give irie one kiss — one fond word — that T may carry their memory as my only comfort into the world where, perhaps, we two shall never meet again ! Think what a world that will be to me, and that death were a million times pre- ferable to the life of a living corpse ; a life that can own not one single moment of happiness, bereft of the only thing that could bring it warmth and light, the sun- shine of our love. I have erred deeply ; I know it ; but my punishment is adequate to my fault. You will not, you cannot, ^dd one grain to the already overflowing measure of my misery. Once more, only once more, Yi, tell me that I am dear to you in spite of all !" She had listened to him, silently, in- tently, trying to take in his words as they 4 fell from his lips; but her brain was in MARRIED ! 215 a whirl, and her heart was beating to suffocation. She could only realize to herself that they must part ; that a dreadful barrier had suddenly arisen be- tween her and him; that their love must be stifled ere it became a greater sin. It seemed to her as though life had come to an end, and a grave, but a grave with a consciousness of its attendant horrors, was yawning at her feet. '' Maurice was another woman's hus- band !" she kept repeating to herself. These few but terrible words were her death-warrant, condemning her to leave all that life owns of happiness, for a desolate, loveless existence for the re- mainder of her days. He was another woman's husband, and yet he dared to kneel before her, to insult her by breathing such words as 216 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. he was doing! In the world's censorious^ eyes, what a contemptible position she must hold ! Ah, what had she done to- merit falling so low, to have been marked- out, in the fulness of her pride, as an object for an unlawful passion — a married man's plaything, to be toyed with for awhile only — to be cast aside later; — to- have been led into revealing openly, un- reservedly as she had done, how entirely a forbidden love filled her every pulse ! No, she would never utter one phrase of tenderness to him again — this man, who was worthless, base; who had sacrificed every proper feeling to his own inordinate selfishness, to his insane and insolent fancy for herself; who had held her up as a target for malicious shots from all around ! He should not dare ever again to contaminate her by his presence,. MARRIED ! 217 or pollute lier by his touch, but teanng his image ruthlessly away from her, she would be brave and strong, and learn to look upon him at length mth the indiiFerence that duty rigidly extorted from her. "Kiss him just once again !'^ Why, he must indeed be stark, staring mad to ask it, she thought, when the very kisses that were past and gone, seemed even now to be burning upon her brow, and scorching her lips like coals of living fire, recalling vividly to her mind the shame those kisses had been to her — the dishonour of him who had given them! She would nerve her- self up at once to be properly calm and cold; to say her final words quietly and firmly; that all her puny miserable efi*orts to hate him, for which she disdained her- self, might be efi'ectually hidden from ^IS NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. him; that her pride might not suffer more by his pity; that he might not scorn the soft womanliness that her deep wrong had failed to destroy; that he might be compelled to respect the Spartan fortitude that could smile, whilst life itself appeared to her, to be ebbing in agony aAvay ! And then she turned and looked upon him. ^'The quicksands are not more easily changed by the wind, nor are the leaves more readily whirled by the winter's blast, than woman veers in her wrath." Vi looked at him steadfastly for a moment, and her breath came quick, and her cheek crimsoned all over as she saw him there, crouching at her feet, more like a slave or a criminal, than a libertine exulting over his victim, or a conqueror regarding his captive. MARRIED ! r2 1 9 His eager eyes, lifted up with such a wan, haggard, hungered expression in them, craving with a silent prayer for a loving glance from her. His face, whose every feature was indelibly en- graved on her heart, so set, so drawn, with the concentrated misery of the last short hour — the brow, usually haughty, unruffled, contracted in pain — was it strange that her whole soul suddenly melted in divine pity and love ? What could be the world's verdict to her, an evil spirit whispered, weighed in the balance with his smallest good or happiness? What could anything be to her in comparison with the everything that he had become ? What right had she, weak, erring creature as she was, to set herself up as his judge, to blame him for having succumbed to a love 220 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. whose power at this very moment was omnipotent over herself! Her eyes re- turned him loving glance for glance ; w^arm, tender kisses, but pure as un- driven snow in their source, rained down upon his brow; and with her world within the circle of her arms, he became again her all in all. She realized the perfect impossibility of tearing herself away from him; she felt that she could not doom herself deliberately to the tor- ture of separation; she dared not face an existence in which he would form no part. What could life be worth if its best element were wanting ? How could she get through the weary, lagging days of absence, when that absence must endure for ever ? To fly with him, whom she loved so utterly, without any home blessings ; pursued, perhaps, by a parental MARRIED ! 221 curse, Avas a terrible prospect ; but the thought that to go with him, to belong to him for ever whilst she lived; to see him daily, hourly; to devote to him the best energies of her heart and brain, and to know that he lived for her, and her love alone; conjured up such a vision of bewildering bliss, that she lost herself in its ecstasy, believing that she was his, to do with as he deemed best; that her future depended on his will ! But such a delirium of feeling Avas but ephemeral, and utterly foreign to her right-thinking nature. Her better angel resumed its sway, and she became her ow^n true self again. But though conscience was awakened, and she was brave to do her duty, love for him was not lessened one iota in her heart, and compassion filled the place 222 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. from which a temporary ebullition of anger had a few moments before, banished it. " Maurice — dear Maurice !" she whis- pered, agitatedly, " have pity upon me. Save me from myself! Strengthen me in what is right, and leave me while yet I have the sense, the power, to bid you go ! It is a sin to say so, but you are more to me than all the world. My very soul is yours ! Not an hour of the day but you are in my thoughts ; not a night but I see you in my dreams. The present is a wretched blank — the future will be a long, lingering torture; the past only is precious to me, for it is filled by you! Oh, my darling one! I do forgive you and love you still ! Never shall I cease loving you! but I am looking upon you now as though death MARRIED ! 223 were dividing us for ever. God guard you always, my own dear Maurice, and bring you the happiness that / shall never feel again !" She wound her arms passionately round his neck, holding him to her as though nought should separate them more. Then she gave him one long long pressure from her lips on brow and eyes and mouth, and was gone — leaving him alone, not only where he stood, but in the wide mde world! "^ L<f. ,>' CHAPTER YI. PARTED, I found her not ! The chamber seemed Like some divinely haunted place Where fairy forms had lately been, And left behind their odorous trace !" # * * # * It felt as if her lips had shed A sigh around her as she fled !" * * * # * Oh, my sweet mistress, where art thou ? In pity fly not thus from me ; Thou art my life, my essence now, And my soul dies of wanting thee !" Moore. iAURICE stood where she had left him, stunned ; then all at once his mind seemed to take in, with wonderful avidity, the PARTED ! 225 Avhole of the terrible reality. The blow had indeed fallen, dashing away in one rapid swoop the cup of delicious nectar from his lips, demolishing in a tiny second the whole fabric of happiness that he had so carefully built up around him during the last few months of his life. And yet, could he wonder at the sudden demolition of a fabric, slight and intangible, shadowy in its nature, with nothing but dishonour and falsehood as the basis on which it had been erected ? The veil, which he had so carefull}^ striven to draw over the hideousness of his past, had not been gently lifted aside, so as to reveal gradually — piece by piece, as it were — to his dear love's gaze, all that he had wished so strenu- ously to conceal from her knowledge. VOL. I. 15 226 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. No time had been given him to explain to her assuredly sympathizing ear and pitying heart the extenuating circum- stances of his case — the undeserved misery his antecedents had entailed, and the immense magnitude of the temptation which she in herself had presented, to prompt him to a course of apparent deceit, sooner than to lose for ever the sunshine of his existence — her presence; but the veil had been wrenched asunder rudely, as it seemed ; allowing him neither hope nor opportunity of clearing himself to a certain extent in the eyes and estimation of the only being upon earth, whose continued affection and good opinion were infinitely more precious to him than food and raiment ! She was gone from him, never to return ! and she had taken with her PARTED ! 227 everything that made life valuable to him. All in that room where he stood seemed to speak of her — the impress of her form against the cushioned sofa; the open book flung on a chair close by; the scattered petals of the flowers, in the arrangement of which she had essayed to pass away the lagging hours until he came; the very breath of the wind stealing in at the open lattice, that had so lately kissed her cheek! Her voice came to him again in the fragrance of violets that rose from a little laced handkerchief, lying neglected on the floor at his feet. Stooping, he seized it, and covered it with mad kisses, as though it had been a living, breathing thing. It was all that was left to him of her! Then, hastily thrusting it into his breast, he left the house, and with rapid steps 15—2 228 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. pursued tlie first quiet road that led out of tlie town. He walked on and on, unmindful of time or of physical fatigue; he knew not w^hither — he cared not where. What W'as, in fact, anything, every- thing to him, now^ that Violet had given him up? For was " She not his life, The ocean to the river of his thoughts, that terminated all?" It did appear so fearfully hard to him that his whole happiness should be a holocaust to that one miserable act of his life — that he should suffer so ter- ribly for the sin of another — for he knew that he had been more sinned against than sinning in that wretched fatal epi- sode of his youth. In all the many years that had gone by since that autumnal parted! 229 day, when lie had gone down on liis knees and sworn to God, in the enthusiastic fervour of boyhood, never to break by his own will the vows he had breathed at the altar; when he had implored the help of Heaven to aid him m keeping the oath that, whilst she lived, no other woman should fill her place, he had religiously endeavoured to avoid all temptations that might lead him into infringing that oath even in spirit. Since that autumnal day he had been haunted continually by the face and form of her who had so utterly ruined his life; amidst the gayest scenes, at every feast, like the Egyptian skeleton, veiled and chap- letted with funereal flowers, she had seemed to sit for ever at his side, scaring away by her dark presence everything that savoured of joy or light. 230 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. Just for the space of a few short montlis, when he had drunk deeply of love at one glance — when love's glamour had completely blinded his vision and bewildered him with its ecstasy — when love's elixir had steeped his senses in temporary oblivion, and lulled him into an Elysian dream — the miserable spectre of the past had faded out of mind, and left him free for a little while to revel in all that life holds of hope and hap- piness. But now it was back again at his side once more, clinging to him tena- ciously, binding his hands more closely than ever with cankering, loathsome chains, mocking at him with its well-remembered taunting smile, flashing its strange eyes into his face, and reminding him, in the harsh discordant accents of old^ that he was still a fettered man ! PARTED ! 231 And a poor consolation it was that all this misery had come to him for the sake of a transient passion. Alas! alas ! Why had he not remembered in time that '^ passions are the gales of a man's life, and that it should be his care not to let them rise into tempests." Just as one loves to look upon the pretty wavelets and the white surf of the sea dancing gently towards the shore, until suddenly, the wind rising, the tiny waves become lashed into fu- rious billows, that dash over and sub- merge one, so he had gazed too long and too curiously, and toyed with the attractive emotions of a new and in- viting pleasure, until it had first fasci- nated him, then imprisoned his feet and swept him into destruction. 232 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. It was summer time, and the country into which Maurice had wandered was enlivened by the season of haymaking. Brightly in the sunshine gleamed the brown, ruddy countenances of the reapers, whilst their merry peals of laughter kept ringing through the air- the subtle scent of the new-mown hay, united to the scent of an adjacent clover-bed, came wafted on the wings of the wind. The luxuriant verdure in which the fields had lately been clothed had yielded to the ruthless scythe, but around la}' big bunches of flowers, all bruised under feet, but still emittino; dying odours as a sweet and lingering farewell to the bright earth they were leaving for ever. But Maurice was in no mood to admire the beauties of nature. The PARTED ! 233 clover-bed, showing up a silvery aspect of green, interspersed with the rich hue of its manifold blossoms, on which the busy bees feasted to satiety, possessed no possible attraction for him; and his glance never wandered towards the tall hedgerows, through which purple buds, intermixed with snowy petals, peeped gaily out. The corn shone yellow in the sunlight, the dark shades of the sycamores mingled with the tender emerald foliage of the stalwart oaks and elms, " and from tlie soft vernal sky overhead, down to the grassy turf at his feet, there Avas beauty around him," but touching him as little as though he were instead in the Great Desert of Sahara, surrounded by arid wastes and sandy plains. For his " soul Avas sick even unto 324 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. death," and his brain thoroughly upset; doubts and fears had created a havoc within it that he deemed himself power- less to bring again into reasonable order; his heart was one chaotic space; he felt that — " 'Tis not the whole of life, to live, Nor all of death, to die !" There was only one question he kept reiterating again and again to himself: " Had happiness eluded his grasp for ever?" And in this, the first hour of Violet's loss, no power on earth could have called up a shadow of a belief that he would ever experience an emo- tion of joy again while he lived. As he soliloquized mournfully, lean- ing against a stile that separated the meadow in which he stood from a small stream that swept along, with PARTED ! 235 tiny force and a gentle murmur, over the big shining pebbles that lay in its course, his eyes rested dreamily on the clear water, vaguely pursuing the career of the little objects that floated on the surface. Suddenly the idea struck him that, following the example of some one he had read of, he would constitute one of those floating trifles his fate, and, paltry as it was, allow its evolutions to govern the current of his thoughts. He was far too miserable to be wise; he wanted something, no matter how trivial, to decide for him, whether he should succumb to the Fates, that seemed to have set their faces dead against him, or whether he should encourage " Hope," that might give him sufiicient strength to grapple man- fully with the positive despair and des- 236 NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. peration that appeared likely to over- whelm him, deadeinng his faculties, and reducing him to a misery which was almost stupifying. In the midst of his grief, the utter absurdity of letting his reason be swayed by such trivialities struck him with a keen sense of ludicrousness, and brought a bitter smile to his lip ; but still he determined to pursue the idea, and not to swerve from the rules laid down for the somewhat original trial of destiny. So he tracked one particular straw in its progress; there was an angle in the bank close by, and he made a vow that that straw should be the umpire to decide between hope and despondency — that according to its safe passage, or otherwise, round the diminutive promon- tory, he would have weal or woe ! PARTED ! 237 Gordon liad said, " Vive la Bagatelle/'' and he liad ironically, and even a little coin- miseratingly received the sentiment, be- lieving that it did discredit to his friend's heart and brain ; and now in this mo- ment, a mere bagatelle seemed every- thing in the world to him, so absurdly superstitious he felt in his anxiety to hnd an omen of good. He stood and watched the " pilot-boat" with eager eyes and throbbing breast, ashamed of him- self, and yet he could not have turned away his gaze for a second to save his life. It enchained his frlance as thouo^h it had been a basilisk, as it came gently down the stream, and he ejaculated, after the manner of the model he had chosen, " Bonum veliis /" It passed quickly on, now and then it met with a slight obstruction, but the 23S NOT WHILE SHE LIVES. stoppage was but momentary. " It doubled the cape — the Cape of Good Hope/' as it was to him; and foolish Maurice, heaving a sigh of positive relief, ''for love will subsist on wonder- fully little hope," retraced his steps home- wards, with a lighter heart, and sat down to write Violet a letter. END OF VOL. I. CHAPTER T. AD the shadow of the asylum quite passed away from Barbara's soul ? If so, why is there some bitterness in her heart to-day as she watches Rose arraying herself in bright fresh toilette for this promised drive ? As she sees the girl's joyous face flashins: into, smiles of happy vanity, or sparkling with gay anticipations of pleasure, Barbara con- fesses to herself that her nature has not this freshness of childish glee, and she feels that the realities of life were forced upon her too soon, and she was cheated out of the best illusions of youth. In looking at Rose she longs wistfully for the happiness — the innocent, unconscious happiness — which shines about her, wdiich has never yet felt a VOL. II. 1 For () often Lives. chilling touch ; and she knows it can never be hers, and says to herself bitterly that the ignorance and pain, the humiliations and suffering, of her young life — her asylum life — have put a blight upon her, and its seal is on her face. '' How can I think to erase it ?" she says. " How can I hope to recover all the years wasted, all the young, hopeful time drearily withered away in that dreadful prison? And yet I have worked so hard ! But what then ? — the root of bitterness is in me still. Oh, I have been sacrificed to Moloch, and the world has called it charity !" '' Eose 1" slie cries out suddenly, " do I look as I did in the asylum? Am I just the same gaunt Cecilian that I used to be ?" " Goodness, Barbara ! how can you talk such nonsense ? Is a bird a bit like an Qg^ ? When I look at you now I can't see even the ghost of the old Barbara in you." " But he said I had the same face." " He ? Oh, Mr. He Beauvoir you mean. Yes, you have the same face, but wonder- fully changed and glorified. I wish I could change like you. Now I have just the same baby, childish visage that I had three years ao-o ; it can laugh and it can cry, and that's Forgotten Lives. about all it can do. Why don't you grow more intellectual-looking, you stupid thing ?" And Eose shook her little fist at her own laughing face in the mirror. She spoke truly in saying Barbara's whole aspect was changed and glorified. It would seem that the girl had resolved to grow beautiful, and had succeeded through force of will. But pure air and freedom, health and happiness, and the delight of intellectual attainments had been her talismans. And the grey, cold look, the wistful, broken-hearted aspect, which had made the Cecilians call her ugly, had vanished, yet the spiritual and sorrowful character of the face remained. It was this which Oliver had recognised when he declared it to be the same. The brow was as broad and clear, the eyes as dark and deep, the mouth as calm and firm, as of old, only over all now there was a glow of life, a recovery of hope and faith, which made her beautiful. The depression, the ache, the emptiness, the weary patience of her life at Saint Cecilia's had been felt like a branding iron through all her nerves, but the force and power of her nature, which made her thus understand and feel her wrongs, gave her also strength to rise above them. She worked with an i— 2 4 Forgotleii Jjives. energy, a persistent patience past belief, to overcome tlie defects, the ignorance, the anguish, and the waste of that asylum time, and she succeeded. The cravings of an eager mind, the thirst of the soul, denied so long, unsatisfied so long, brought her joy here, where she was free to taste of knowledge, and drink at wis- dom's fount. No longer self- suppressed, down-trodden, annihilated in spirit and in will, because she was poor and an orphan, and, above all, a girl. She had fulfilled her dream : she could stand face to face with Oliver on ground not so far beneath him that she need shrink as she had done on that bitter day, when the shame and pain of her ignorance had burnt into her soul. The shadow of a long humilia- tion was on her spirit then, the ungainliness of a prison garb about her still ; and she looked on Oliver with dazzled eyes. He was a bright denizen of a world of which she knew nothing — the free, rich, intel- lectual, glorious world of which she had visions, as she sat cowering by the dying embers in her poor asylum uniform. But now she had come out of that dearth and drought, she had left that weary land Forgofien Lives. of salt springs and bitterness, she Inid casfc off tlie slough of her old despair, and she was to see Oliver with new eyes, with keener perceptions, and read him, if she could, not with her heart, but her under- standino". This was the girFs dream, and she did not call it love. Yet what a happy day was this as they drove through the streets of the old city, and on to the woods and meadows, where they alighted, and sat on the grass talking of England, while madame, at a little dis- tance, played dragon amiably, and monsieur ran after butterflies with nimble feet, and returned in an ecstasy of triumph, his prey in the net. Oliver de Beauvoir was delighted with monsieur. He was so charmed with mon- sieur, so impressed with his genius, that, as he told madame, he felt constrained to remain at Blois a few days to have an opportunity of cultivating his acquaintance, and, above all, of seeing his collection — his unique collection of insects. Praise of her husband, pride in her hus- band, were madame's weak points. The citadel was gained, and thenceforth Oliver 6 Forgoiien Lives. was no longer a person of whom it was needful to be suspicious, about whom one was always to be on one's guard, and make oneself a dragon of the sleepless order. On the contrary, a gentleman who could appre- ciate her husband's talents was no fool, no mauvais sujef. . He might come and go much as he pleased, but only to the porter's lodge. Men entendit ; the jjensio?i itself could only be entered on ceremonious occasions when madame received in the grand salon. However, if the two English young ladies now and then ran down the allee defendue leading to the lodge — called, by the way, for grandeur's sake the pavilion — to see some new take of butterflies, or some big moth with fat body and a death's-head, there was no need to become aware of the fact seriously, for was not mon mari always there to report the slightest inconsistency between the young man's conduct and his avowed love of entomology ? Ahj how fast Time flies when he borrows Love's wings to help him ! How curiously swift are the golden days, the silver dawns, and rosy-tinted twilights when Love is intermingled v/ith the time ! Then the hours fly indeed, and have a light in them For(jofteii Lives. that all the suns that rise upon our future years can never bring again. It was well for Barbara there was a vein of sadness and distrust in her strong, patient nature, else this period of her life might have been the seedtime of a deeper bitterness, a crueller harvest, than she could bear to gather in. The distrust was of herself, not of him. She could not believe he loved her. She felt the Molocli taint still upon her soul, the asylum livery still upon her free limbs. Her long, painful subjection to ignorance, to famine of mind and body, to coarseness, to humiliation, rankling silent within her, had left the mark of its chain upon her spirit. She was subject to fits of over- sensitive pride, to shrinkings of the heart, that happier, less humbled creatures never guessed at. It was an ugly servitude to which she had bowed. It was not only the subjection that man puts on Avoman in denying her education, property, freedom, and just laws ; it was a crueller yoke still — a subjection which trod down self-assertion and raised in its place a wounded sense of humiliation and wrong ; a subjection which Forr/ofteu Lives. made lier feel lierself an inferior creature not worth caring for — a creature to whom it was virtually said every day of her de- pressed life, " This poor food, poor garb, poor education are good enough for you. You are a reci23ient of cliarity and a girl ! Therefore only the scrapings of charity shall be yours, because of your sex. If charity has any gifts, any endowments, any scholarships, any better garb, or better food, all these shall be for boj^s. You shall shiver without the gate that shuts in good things ; you shall share in nothing but contempt and miserj^ No matter what your natural gifts may be, they shall gain you nothing; your young years shall run to waste, your brain shall be uncultivated, your hands kept unskilled. You are a girl, and lower still, a charity giriy And this is the one of Grod's creatures to whom the least is given of any human being upon the earth, not even a slave excepted, if that slave be of the male sex. Can such a teaching, such a training as this give honour, independence, dignity, and usefulness to a human being ? Would it not be better -to wipe out the brain entirely rather than leave quick feeling, bright- Forgotten Lives, 9 ness, intellect, and hope to these poor female creatures, in whom these attributes must all be crushed and to whom all things are denied, except the poor privilege one day to please a man ? This was Barbara's privilege now : she pleased Oliver de Beauvoir. And she mistrusted her little power and the duration of it. The fault might be in herself, in the training of her whole life, or the fault might be in him ; but she felt that a man's love is too unstable a thing to build happi- ness upon, to cling to as the one sole good the world could give her. No ; charity had knocked down romance in her, and her sad, earnest eyes saw many things truthfully which youth and illusion glorified for others. Yet it was a happy time, a time of girlish laughter and bright hopes ; a time when love rested lightly on the heart, too young as yet for sorrow; a youthful time which scattered the scent of flowers as it went, through all the rosy light, and breathed Iresh joy into every awakening dawn. The days flew swifter than a weaver's shuttle, and lo ! Oliver had been at Blois a month. 10 Forcjotten Lives, One summer afternoon tliey all sat in monsieur's cool, shady salon, a little silent, as if some cloud were in the air. It was 2^ fete day, and Oliver's soul had been vexed within him by processions, and banners, and music. " I must really go to Paris soon to meet my sister," he said, seriously. " Llonsieur, I can give you only a week longer in which to find that wonderful butterfly you have been hunting so long. Yes, I positively leave Blois in a week." He looked at Barbara as he spoke, but she did not answer him. Her face had a shadow of unrest upon it, a weary line or two about the mouth, a look of sad thought in the grey eyes. " Monsieur will do well to stay till I can show him this rare specimen. It is one of the species " Here Eose put her hands upon her ears, and observing her action the little man smiled and stopped. " Is that Latin, Greek, Sanscrit, or Phoenician word, whichever it may be, gone out to the winds yet?" asked Eose, unclosing her pink ears. Forgotten Lives. 11 " It was not spoken, mademoiselle — I should but have wasted it. Ah ! what a pity you despise butterflies — you who have such an affinit}^ with the tribe !" '* Me !" cried liose ungrammatically. " Yes ; are you not a Eose ?" " Very prettily said, Achille," observes madame. Thus approved of, Achille — oh, what an Achilles ! — plunges into a labyrinth of com- pliments. '' The breath of flowers is the soul of the butterfly," he says ; " without them he dies. Look at our young Englishman here — he was a butterfly once ; he hovers over the flowers still." IMadame frowns, but her small Achilles is elated, and he goes on without a pause — " At one time it is the rose, another the lily" — a wave of his mummy hand towards Barbara. "But what will you? It is his nature, his life ; we must not call him fickle who only seeks to breathe." A moment's silence, into which there flickers a faint laugh from madame, while Eose has blushed very red and Barbara grows pale. Oliver is angry at the 1 2 Forgotten Lives. impudence, as he calls it, of ce ixiuvre AcUlle. " Keep to your butterflies, monsieur," he says, '' and leave the human species alone ; evidently you cannot class them. I do not belono^ to the fickle order of beings, and I decidedly object to the metempsychosis you have ascribed to me. I never wore wings of any sort^ or looked out upon the world with a pair of feelers !" " My husband puts butterflies at the pinnacle of creation ; he intended you a compliment," observes madame smoothly. " Doubtless," returned Achille. " I am sorry monsieur vexes himself. We were all insects before we changed to higher forms. Monsieur was undoubtedly a butterfly, my wife was a queen bee, and I was a lizard. Lizards eat flies, you know, and I still retain my liking for the crea- tures, only in another way." They all laugh except Barbara; she is looking fixedly at the little dry entomologist as if she saw a new phase in him to-day — a latent humour or sly power of reading- character. The old ache and weariness, and distrust of all things, are heavy at her Forgotten Lives. 13 heart ; the asylum taint is in tlie very air she breathes ; nothing is fresh, or sweet, or pure at this dark hour — least of all man's love — and she sits apart pondering. "And what was I once ?" asks Eose. She is quite eager, though she laughs. The old man lifts his thin, earnest, simple face from the glass case over which he is bending, .and looks at her ponderingly. His eyes burns strangely, and Rose grows uneasy beneath their piercing gaze. " Well !" she cries at last ; '' what was I, monsieur? A wasp, perhaps ?" "No, mademoiselle," he answers her sadly, and goes back to his beloved butter- flies with. a sigh. But Eose persists. " Mr. De Beauvoir, do make him tell ; madame, do ask him to tell me !" " I would rather not tell you, made- moiselle. What will you ? it is but a fancy of mine." " But tell it — tell it," cries Eose. " I don't mind even if you say I was a cat." The entomologist bends lower over the case, rearranging his insect mummies, and pretends not to hear. 14 For(/oiten Lives. " Mon clier^' says madame ; " it is but a folly we know, yet pray oblige us." Never yet had any request of hers been refused by this poor simple child of sixty years, who dimlj^ felt that he was foolish and weak, and her love for him was sub- lime, and she was his only wall against the world, and without her he would fall a prey to the net of the wicked. " Estelle, my angel, I oblige you by speaking. That's enough — I speak. Ma- demoiselle" — a little gravely as he turned to Eose — " you were a creature very beau- tiful — as you are now — and glittering, bril- liant, and graceful, and dangerous to offend — as you are now, likewise. So you perceive, mademoiselle, you are not so much changed as perhaps you think, only you are young now and sleeping." This last he said very softly to his dead moths, and he looked pale and odd as he leant over them. "What is it? "What does he mean?" cried Eose, ''I don't in the least under- stand." " He means a compliment, of course," says madame, a little drily. " How unfair to poor Eose !" whispers Forf/offen, Lives. 1 5* Barbara to Oliver, who is, as usual, lier shadow. " How could he dare to say any- thing so cruel ?" " There's a good deal of the lizard in him to-day," answers Oliver. " Serpents are on his mind." " Oh, hush, pray ! Eose did not under- stand him, and he will not explain his im- pertinence. It is so horribly unjust !" con- cludes Barbara with indignation. " I am sure he meant no impertinence," says Oliver ; '' he honestly believed it. You know he has but one faith, and that a queer one. He believes in the indestructibility of life, only it passes on to another creature when its original possessor dies. Hence he asserts that our vitality has endured through an infinite variety of forms^ before it reaches us, and thus we find ourselves full of shadowy memories too weak for thought to seize on, yet these link us with our past forms of life, and in many instances are even strong enough to give us some of our old habits and feelings. It is rather a consoling theory, for if no life is lost, from an insect up to man, it permits us to make mutton without any compunction for the sheep." 16 Forfjotteii Liv^s. Barbara did not smile at this climax. " I have no belief whatever in the trans- migration of souls or of mere life either," she says impatiently. '' The falsehood of the theory is proved by that unfair, ugly assertion monsieur has just uttered respecting Eose." " I think he has made a mistake there. I should say Eose was once a gazelle, or a lovely little King Charles's spaniel, or — or anything, in fact, that was pretty and good and very much petted." Eose catches her own name, and taking a cautious, soft step or two, she manages to hear the conclusion of this sentence, and as it sounds flatteringly, she stretches her white neck past monsieur's bald head, and rewards Oliver with a sweet smile. Then, all unseen by Barbara^ she nods and points inquiringly to an empty chair close by him. She does it in such an infantine way, with such a childish, coaxing air, that Oliver smiles back enchanted, and his eyes say plainly — " Yes, come, you will be wel- come." So in a moment Eose glides gracefully into the vacant seat, and leans affectionately towards Barbara, and smooths her cheek with her soft white hand. Forgotten Lives. 17 " I am so glad to be uear you again," slie says. And her eyes look up at Oliver and smile. As he catches that look a little flash of light gleams in his hazel eyes, and taking a rose from a vase close by, he holds it an instant to his lips. He is standing at the back of Barbara's chair, so she sees only the flush of delight on her friend's cheek, and loving all things lovely, her eyes rest there kindly. Then turn- ing her head a little, she says softly to Mr. De Beauvoir — " She is worthy of her name to-day ; she is all roses." At the sound of her voice Oliver almost forgets that Eose Carteret lives ; he bends lower over her chair, and drops tli« rose he is holding into her lap. Meanwhile madame is whispering a little gravely to that simple, antiquated child, her husband. " Mais, mon cher Achille, how could you say anything so little agreeable, so cruel even : But liere madame stop^, for Achille looks up from his moth mummies with a wan, deprecating smile, which, plainer than VOL. II. 2 1 8 For(jofien Lives. speecli, says — " You would have it, Estelle, you asked me for it. Why are you angry Madame understands every shade of ex- pression on that thin, unworldly face, so she answers him, though he has not spoken — " Never mind ; it was my fault, I know. We'll forget it." " Pardon me, Estelle, you must remem- ber it — remember it always. It is better to know these things and be on one'& guard." Madame laughs incredulously, but the little man looks so pale and odd, that she spares him any sarcasm on his theories. " There is so much of the lizard in me to- day," he murmurs, with his hand caressing the glass sepulchre of his beloved butter- flies. " And the recognition — the natural antipathy — yes, it makes one feel odd, almost ill — and, in fact, I shall never like that pretty Eose again." " Don't be absurd, Achille," observes madame with some irritation. But the wan smile is on his lips again, and his eyes are fixed, gazing into some Forgotten Lives. 19 far-off lizard world, where he made his first acquaintance with flies and reptiles. So his wife, touched with that pity she always has for him, worries him no more. She goes over to the other end of the long room, and taps Oliver on the shoulder with her fan. '' Has Mademoiselle Lethbridge told you the great news?" " No ! what news ?" " Oh, I certainly thought you were talk- ing of it all this time 1 Is it possible you don't know ?" Oliver thinks it is some schoolgirl news, some fete or folly, so he shakes his head again laughingly. " What ! has not she told you she is going away ?" " Going away !" And Oliver looks in wild surprise into her calm, handsome face ; then he turns to Barbara and sees her cheeks pale, and notices for the first time the weary, sad expression in her eyes. " It is true, then," he says. " Why did you not tell me ?" " I only knew it this morning myself," Barbara answers. "It was quite an un- expected announcement to me." 2—3 20 Forgotten Lives. " An announcement ? I don't under- stand. AVliose orders are you obeying, tlien ? — an uncle's ? — an aunt's ?" " ]N^either," and a vivid blush covers Barbara's face. " I have no one to give me orders but ni}^ cousin. A letter reached me from him to-day." Oliver observes the blush, and a sense of irritation and annoyance makes him hot. " Indeed ! And to what part of the world do your orders take you ? To Eng- land, I suppose ?" " No, it is a roving order. I am to make the tour of Europe." "By yourself, or does this charming cousin accompany you ?" Oliver's voice is not quite steady as he speaks, and he smooths his moustache with his fingers to hide his quivering lip. Madame laughs at his question. " That would be joli'' she says, " that a young lady should travel with a bachelor cousin ! No, no, monsieur, I give up my charge to a highly-distinguished American family, with whom she will remain for a year — so Mr. Lethbridge tells me." " And they are coming for me to- morrow," Barbara says. Forgotten Lives. 21 She cannot help it if her eyes travel upward to Oliver's face, and stay there a moment in fixed mournfulness. As for him, he feels as if an earthquake had happened, and life was not worth a straw. " To-morrow !" he repeats. " No, you cannot be going to-morrow ?" Madame listens to his English words with her keen ears, and puts in her French say again. " But I assure you, monsieur, she is going to-morrow. She must, I am sorry to say, for the American lady writes me she cannot delay even an hour at Blois. It is very sudden certainly, and I am infinitely vexed to part with you, ma chere, at such short notice." This to Barbara, with a little tap on the hand ; then again to Oliver — " Is it not provoking, monsieur, that she will not be here for my fete day, when I have arranged to have a charming little dance ?" " But Mr. De Beauvoir will be here," observes Eose. " I heard him say just now he was going to stay another week." Madame is charmed, enchanted to hear this, and babbles on infinitely, while Oliver, 22 Forgotten Lives, remembering his words, feels like a man who has chosen the tree for his own hanging. " I could have gone with her/' he says to himself. " I could have fastened on the American woman like Sindbad, and made her take me wherever she and Barbara go. "What shall I do? I must invent letters, telegrams^ business, fires, to take me away now. ' What is this monsieur is saying in his clear childish voice ? It has passed over Oliver's ears without entering in. " Ah, Monsieur De Beauvoir ! I do not forget you promised to stay a week longer. You shall go with me to a charming spot about six leagues away, where one has seen the butterfly I am searching for so long." " Oh, do make it a picnic — an English picnic, madame !" says Eose in her most coaxing voice. "That would please mon- sieur so much, and then you would take me too." "Noj mademoiselle, I s'll not tak' zoo !" exclaims monsieur, j)lunging into sudden English. " I vant no pique-nique. I vant my butterfly." Forgotten Lives. 23 And so saying, he subsides again into silence among his winged mummies. Eose looks at him from between her eye- lids, a quiet, narrow look, and her little white teeth, too, go sharply together, and with finger and thumb she pinches a pleat tightly in madame's gown. This relieves her, and in another second her face is dimpling into smiles again. '' It is a horrid bore," says Oliver in a low voice to Barbara, " but I am afraid I am pledged to stay another week in this place." " Is it such a hardship ?" asks Barbara. "Yes, now you are going." Barbara's eyelids fall, and her cheeks grow red and pale, but she dares not answer him a word. " Where are you going first?" " To Paris," she says, in a tone a little weary and sad. " But we are only to stay there a week." " Then I shall go to-morrow. Why should I not ?" asks Oliver in a decided voice. " I can make some excuse, you know — a telegram or something." " Oh, no, indeed you must not," break.. in Eose, quite seriously. " Must he, Bar- 24 Forr/often Lives. bara? It would make such a talk — such a fuss here, if he left on the same day you did, would not ifc ?" '' I think it would/' Barbara answers quietly. '' And why should you go ?" she continues, looking for a moment into his vexed face. "Your sister will not be in Paris for a week." '' And you will have left it then ! Unless you will stay to meet Theresa, as she so much wishes,'' he adds eagerly. " I will try." As she speaks some of the weight is lifted from Oliver's heart, and, bending forward, he endeavours to read her face, and gather, if he can, more hope. '' If you try you will succeed. Your friends will certainly oblige you." '' They are strangers to me ; they are Walter's friends." This is a cold shock again, and Oliver's quick nerves are getting rasped. " Walter ! Oh, that's the cousin whose orders you obey !" " Yes," Barbara says simply. * " And such a good cousin," cries Eose in her brightest voice. " I wish I had such a cousin. His letters come to the hour like Forgotten Lives, 25 a clock ; and then he is always sendmg her presents. Isn't he, Barhara?" Barbara has blushed painfully. Her cheeks burn, and tears are very near her eyes ; it is so hard he should hear all this, and gain a false impression of Walter's kindness. She tries faintly to remedy thino^s a little. '' Walter is very good to me," she says. " He is the only relative I have ; he is more like a brother than a cousin." Barbara is looking down to hide the un- shed tears in her grey eyes, so she loses the pretty glance that Eose bestows on Oliver, the upraising of her brows, and the half- smile, all which, plainly as looks can speak, negative the words^ she has spoken. But she feels the clasp of Rose's soft arm around her waist, and the touch of her caressing hand, and thanks her with a smile, not dreaming of the little treacheries of friend- ship. " Doubtless he is a paragon of cousins," Oliver says, with a short laugh. '' Does he meet you at Paris ?" " No ; he is in America. I have not seen him for three years." This is reassuring, and the clouds break 26 Forgotten Lives, a little. But Eose, with lier hand on Barbara's shoulder, says innocently — " But he is coming to England in a year or two to see her. And he is making money as fast as — as a coiner." " What an agreeable occupation !" returns Oliver, with a scornful curl on his lip. " Miss Carteret seems to know all your secrets, Miss Lethbridge, and I fear she is betraying confidence." " Miss Lethbridge !" thinks Barbara. *' Yesterday and to-day it was Barbara." " I have no secrets," she says, " I assure you." " I am not betraying anything, am I ?" asks Bose, in prett}^ anxiety. " Barbara, you never desired me not to tell that you heard always from your cousin, and expect to see him next year, did you ? You don't mind any one knowing it,, T think ?" " You are perfectly welcome to tell all the world/' Barbara returns coldly. " I am not ashamed of my cousin." She is vexed at last and indignant. She feels a false impression is made on Oliver's mind, yet she cannot say that Eose's words have fixed it there, neither can she try further now to undo it without being Forgotten Lives. 27 ungenerous to Walter, and that she cannot be. Only, as Oliver stands cold and silent, more angry than ever at her last words, she lifts her eyes to his, and lets love and sorrow speak for her in their tender gaze. It was but for an instant, yet her lover's heart is beating faster and happier, and he longs for a moment's free speech to hear from the lips what the eyes have said. Eose seems but a tiresome child . to him now — she is nearly sixteen — and he wishes her away as he leans over Barbara's chair and whispers — " Do try to let me speak with you this evening somewhere — anywhere, so that I see you." " At the reception this evening, in the music-room," Barbara says tremblingly. He clasps her hand suddenly with a great throb of the heart. He feels as if he had already asked her to be his wife, and he is both glad and sorry. The joy comes first; but he knows that behind it there lurks the thought of having done what the world calls a foolish thing, and he must fight its prejudices and the anger of his family. The. vexed heat of this battle is on him, and he does not touch Barbara's hand again 28 Forgotten Lives. or seek her ej^es. Time enough for that when they meet again in the evening. These reflections, this joy and grief, have taken but a moment to pass through his soul, and the thrill of Barbara's hand is still in his veins when he hears madame's voice accosting him. ''I must leave you with my husband now," she says ; " my half-holiday is over. Miss Letbrids, you must say good-bye to your friend." " jSTo, no," returns Oliver a little blankly ; " I shall see you and Miss Lethbridge too this evening at your reception." Madame smiles sweetly, serenely up at him. " T do not receive this evening. I have two little pupils ill. I have put off my reception. I shall have it — let me see — yes, Friday. I shall be charmed to see you on Friday." This is Tuesday, and Barbara goes to- morrow ! Blank dismay sits on Oliver's face, and rage gnaws his heart. Not a word reaches his lips. " Dere is de bell," says madame in tran- quil English, as the cling-clang of that respectful summons comes echoing up the Forgotten Lives. 29 garden. " You must mague 'aste, my dears. You are long time to say adieu to 3^our friend, ma petite!' Barbara stands up very cold and pale, and holds out her hand to Oliver ; he takes it mechanically, and stares into her face bewildered, He is utterly annihilated, lie is in a state of collapse physically, while his soul is boiling over with rage. Can this be good-bye ? this transient touch of cold fingers, these few cold words, with a lizard and a she-dragon looking on, and that little sp3^ Eose — yes, he called her that in his heart — smiling at his discomfiture ? Must he bear all this with the smirking, bowing hypocrisy which the world calls politeness, and which society demands ? He bears it — he drops Barbara's cold hand — madame's eyes are on him, soft and smiling, but very like a lynx, and he even wishes her a pleasant journey, in a voice that simu- lates cheerfulness with very creditable success. It is over ; the last look is given, the last word said ; that act of his life is closed for ever. And now that it is gone he feels he has lost opportunities, wasted hopes, flung away happiness. 30 Forgotten Lives. He has, like a stoic or a martyr, duly escorted madame to the end of the garden avenue ; he has stood there and received with eminent politeness her last smile, her sweet " Au revoir ! a vendredi,'' and her final wave of the hand. Moreover, he has caught Barbara's last look, he has seen the last glimpse of a pale, quiet face with stead- fast power and patience on it, and he still stands beneath the trees in dazed pain as if an arrow were quivering in his flesh. CHAPTER II. EAES and kisses — tears for parting, kisses for love." So Rose whispers, as, vvitli pretty, cliildisli, coaxing wiles, she lavishes tendernesses on Barbara, and so softly wipes away that sense of sore- ness in her heart, that faint fear of deceit, which had shadowed their friendship for a moment. In the morning all is confusion and hurry, for Walter^s American friend — a gentleman, to madame's horror — presents himself at her door at 7 a.m., and declares peremptorily he intends to start back for Paris by the 8.10 train. He thinks nothing of his night's journey, he wants no rest; he has come from a continent where people travel for seven nights and days consecutively, and come out fresh at the journey's end. Madame sees it is useless to ask such a man for delay — useless also to express her French ideas of propriet}'. An American. Forgotten Lives. would escort a girl from the North Pole to the South, with a mixture of honour and gallantry unknown to Europe. This Ameri- can in particular is still so unconscious of the suspicions and distrusts of the civilized society in which he finds himself, that he is ready not only to take Barbara to Paris, but Eose also, and he is quite surprised and dis- appointed when his proposition is refused. Barbara had cherished a faint hope that she might see Oliver at the station, but this is quenched now, as she knows he will not imagine she can leave by so early a train. But she, who has borne so long that w^eary, patient ache of the heart which St. Cecilia taught her, can bear this pain also, and so she says her adieux to all firmly and bravely, only with lips a little pale. The drive to the railway is a little dreary, a little dead, having no hope at the end of it, and the station looks drear and empty. Finally she takes courage, and writes her new friend's address in pencil on a card, and slips it hurriedly in the hand of Eose. " Give it to Mr. De Beau voir for — for his sister," she whispers, " and tell him I will try to wait at Paris to see Lady Theresa." " Oh, he will be with you in a w^eek him- Forgotten Lives. 33 self/' answers Eose, as she puts the card in her little glove. "I'll give him this on Friday. How happy you are going to be, Barbara !" And the tears fall fast on her rose-leaf face. " I wish I ^vas o-oino- with you. " I should have been very happy to take you," says the gallant Mr. Dale. " You had better change your mind and come; you'll have an elegant time. We are going all over Europe." " It would be delightful," returns Eose tearfully. " I wish I had had time to ask mamma ; she lets me do everything I like. Now I suppose I must stay in this dull place another year. And when shall I see you again, Barbara, I wonder?" " Next year," Barbara answers cheerfully, " when I come to England." "And you'll come down to Cornwall? You'll visit our grim old castle if mamma invites you ? And she must, you know, if I ask her. But no ! you'll get married, I am afraid," concludes Eose dolefully. " Then married or single I'll visit the castle all the same," says Barbara. " There is no French lover in the way, I hope," cries Mr. Dale, looking anxiously, VOL. II. 3 34 Forgotten Lives, at Hose. " We want this young lady in America, where some one you know is wait- ing for her." Through Eose's tears there gleams a flash of triumphant fire, which she covers with white lids and curled lashes, and looks up again with grief in her eyes. She made no response to Mr. Dale, perhaps she wishes to hear no disclaimer from Barbara. And there ^ is no time now, except for one more hurried farewell, then the train departs and Barbara has quitted Blois and left the kindly lizard and his dear spouse ; and all that period of her life henceforth is to be reckoned among the things that are past. This is a story of patches and of broken tln-eads; we drop one and we take up another ; or it is like a journey in which one com- panion joins us and another leaves, and we see him no more for ever, though we miss him, and his memory lingers with us from stage to stage. A week went by in Paris, and another week, and no English visitor came to Bar- bara ; then she felt tliat Oliver De Beauvoir was as one of these. He had travelled with her for a little while till their roads changed, then he had gone on his wav, as she must Forgotten Lives, 35 go on hers, and if she shivered somewhat and felt her path lonely, she could bear it bravely; for she had borne worse things, and she could hide it too, troubling no one with a gloomy look. Eose had written that Oliver had left Blois. So now he was out in the wide world, and there was no spot in all the universe that she could fix upon and. say, " He is there !" And with this thought, hope died quite aw^ay. ^ * * * ^ On that black Friday, while a fiddle, a harp, and a piano, and four human voices are all combining to make what music they can. Rose takes Barbara's card from the heart of her bouquet, and wrapping it round a flower, she permits Oliver to perceive that she means this little mystery for him. This brings him to her side, and he bends over her and says eagerly — "What is it— a letter?" " Oh dear no !" answered Rose, holding back the flowers from his eager hand. " Why should you suppose Barbara would write to you ? I have never known her cor- respond with any one but her cousin." " Hang her cousin !" returns Oliver as 36 Forgotlen Lives. the music rolls down into the bass. "What is it, then, if it is not a letter ?" " It is Barbara's address, and — and I am quite afraid to give it to jou." " I don't see why," answers Oliver, a little drily. " Well, firstly, madam e may see me ; and then Barbara seemed so afraid herself." Oliver tries to snatch at the flower, but Eose holds it back resolutely. "Afraid of what?" he says impatiently. " Oh, she was so fearful of your mis- understanding her — so afraid you would think the address was for you." " And is it not for me ?" " No, it is for your sister. And Barbara was so particular in impressing on me that it was for Lady Theresa, that I felt I ought to explain this before giving it. Here it is." The rosebud is in his hand — the little coquette has been careful to select her emblem for him — and he tries at once to unroll the card. "Oh, don't do that!" she cries eagerly; " madame is watching you. How sly it makes one, all this watching and spying ! I am sure you think me very sly, Mr. De Beauvoir." Forgotten Lives. 37 " !Not in this instance at all events. And you might have given me the card openly. Madame knows quite well I want Barbara's address for my sister." He is not at all dejected by the elaborate explanation he has received, and Eose sup- presses a little sigh of disappointment. A man generally thinks that his sister means himself, and a vain man is certain of it. " So Barbara was particularly careful to crush my conceit,'' he says in quite an elated manner. *' She never thought you conceited, but I believe she is anxious that — that you should not fancy she wants to see you again." Oliver stares at her and plucks at his moustache angrily. " Did she desire you to tell me that; Miss Carteret ?" '' Oh, I can't answer, you now. Do you see this fat girl behind us ? Well, she is learning English, and she knows it pretty well, too. And she is listening to us with all her might." ''Let her listen. I defy her to under- stand if we mumble a little. Now tell me." Thus pressed, and resolved on victory, 38 Forgotten Lives. Kose makes a dash for it, and skirts a lie as near as she dares. " She did not exactly say it, but she im- plied it. I am sure she feels she has flirted a little with you here, and I think she is sorry for it." Oliver still stares at her and is speechless. At this moment he has no words in him. He feels his face is getting pale, and his heart is angry and sore. " Sorry for it !" he says at last. And an abrupt laugh rings out of his lips, which makes the fat learner of English start. " Yes, sorry ; and I believe I guess the reason." K little silence. And Eose, who was looking down, fidgeting nervously with her bouquet, glances upwards quickly, and sees a troubled face with eyes fixed on the floor, and fingers and thumb twirling a long moustache. " You know her reason," he says slowly ; " you are Miss Lethbridge's friend — you are in her confidence ?" '' Oh, yes, her dearest friend. You know I told you I came to this place because she was here." " Yes, I remember. Then you are old Forgotten Lives. 39 friends — you are likely to know her feelings, of course ; and you think she would rather not see me at Paris?" Eose hesitates an instant ; if she goes on she must tell a lie, a direct lie, and she has never gone so far as this yet. Once more she tries evasion. " I think she would like very much to see your sister/' ''Would she, or would she not, like to see me ? You are her friend — you can tell me. If she would, I go to Paris to-morrow; if she would not, I wont trouble her." So the truth will send Oliver away to- morrow, and Barbara will be happy with him in Paris while she is left here alone, dull, in prison, wearying over lessons — a mere schoolgirl still. To think of .others happy while she is unhappy, others enjoying gaiety while she is dull, Barbara gaining a lover whom she covets — this is too much for Rose. The vision lashes her into anger; two crimson spots flame on her cheeks, her eyes grow full of fire, her red lips tremble, the words, " I hate Barbara !" burn on her tongue. She has just time to change their, a little as speech bursts forth. '•' I hate — to have to tell you the truth," 40 For (J oil en Lives. slie saj's, '' but Barbara lias loved her cousin all her life, and I am quite certain she is afraid to see you in Paris lest he should grow angr}^ Mr. Dale, who is his friend, told me at the station that he and Barbara are going to be married, and he said he hoped there was no other lover in the way. Barbara looked so frightened when he said that. Oh, I am sure she is very sorry now Eose stops with a little gasp. She has said more than she meant to say, as we often do when env}^ moves us, and we are afraid our friends are going to be happier than ourselves. " You seem indignant, Miss Carteret," ob- serves Oliver in quite a quiet drawl. " I hope you are not expending your indignation on my behalf. It is quite unnecessary, I assure you. If Miss Lethbridge has flirted with me a little, I believe I have repaid the compliment with interest, and I don't know that we have done any large amount of injury to each other. I think Mr. Lethbridge is the fellow who ought to complain. As for me, I count myself lucky, and I have reall}' been very much amused." For cj of ten Lives. 41 Eose is new to the world. She does not know how much greater than woman's is the vanity of man. She has never heard of the Spartan bo}^ and the fox. Her little cruel, selfish heart beats triumphantly. " He never cared," is her thought, '' or he would be more vexed." '' I am very glad you don't mind much," she says, with small tact. " Mind ! Why should I ? I am only a little sorry for Mr. Lethbridge. Poor fellow ! it is rather hard lines for him to be in the backwoods, and have his fiancee flirting in Paris. But it does not matter much" — in the quietest tones of his languid voice ; "we all flirt. Even you and I have done a little that way, have we not?" The consummate ease of Mr. De Beauvoir's manner has returned to him^ and he is able to say this impertinence with cool grace. " I don't flirt," Rose says sharply. " Of course not ; you are too young yet. Like our fat professor of English (who is still listening), you are only a learner. When you get out into the great world. Miss Carteret, you will be amazed 42 Forgotten Lives. to see what a vast amount of flirtation is managed comfortably, without hurting any one. I advise you not to give me rosebuds then. I am a younger brother — in fact, a detrimental. Do you not think we have given an English lesson of sufficient length toFatima?" He half rises in saying this, but a word from Rose retains him in his seat. CHAPTEE III. HAT word was Caerlerrick. " Caerlerrick is such a dismal, mysterious place," she says, and stops. " Well ?" very curiously, yet suppressing liis eagerness. " Why do you stop ?" Eose looks round upon Fatima. " I am really afraid to say a word before that girl, she is so curious about Caer- lerrick. She has even succeeded in read- ing some of my letters, and has discovered that something there makes mamma un- happy. In fact she sees there is a mystery, and she is so determined to find it out that lately she has taken to walk in her sleep." " Walk in her sleep ! What a singular development of the effects of curiosity !" They are both speaking in a very low tone, and Oliver is himself so curious that 44 Forfjotfen Lives. he finds it hard to keep face and voice in differ ent. " Eather singular," Eose returns, " but it is true. She prowls into my room in the middle of the night and begins fumbling at my keys. And when I spring at her and seize her as if she were a burglar, she screams, wakes up, and says ' Dear me ! I was asleep.' " Oliver is obliged to laugh, and he looks round with interest upon Fatima, whose odd greenish eyes never wink under his inspection. " If you look at her she will know we are talking of her, and I am afraid of her as it is," Eose continues. '' It is dreadful to see her walking round like the ghost of Bluebeard's wife searching for keys. Be- sides, mamma would be so angry if she succeeded in reading my letters." ISTot by a single betrayal of interest does Oliver stop either her eagerness, or her volubility. To get a clue which would lead him into the Caerlerrick mystery he would give much, for even Barbara in his mind is linked with it. Tor a moment he forgets the soreness of his heart as by a glance he encourages Eose to go on. Forgotten Lives. 45 "' Not that mamma downright tells me anything — only — only she lets me see she would rather I stayed here than came home. So I was going to say I shall not have much chance of flirting, or of seeing an}^- body at Caerlerrick," concludes Eose with a great sigh. Oliver ponders a moment, and then says boldly, " You'll see me." "Oh, shall I?" laughs Eose. "I don't believe a human being ever gets into the castle." " Then we'll meet outside it. We have been very good friends here, have we not ? Of course we shall be friends ag^ain. You can't think I am going to forget you." All things are fair in love and war. This is a stratagem of war in reality, the first stroke against Caerlerrick, but Eose takes it for something sweeter, as he meant she should, and her eyes brighten as they smile on him. *' Y^ou mean you'll remember Barbara ?" "Certainly. I shall not forget Mrs. Lethbridge that is to be, but to remember a person and to tJiink of her are two different things." The tone of his voice, the glance of his 46 Forgotten Lives. fickle eyes, imply tliat slie will be the one thouo^ht of. What does it matter? She is only a little schoolgirl. And she began it, too ! Anything to batter down Caerlerrick ; it is quite fair. This is Oliver's mental aside as he takes a new book of photographs in his hand — they have been apparently studying the photographic branch of art all this time. Close by them sits a big governess — a heavy dragon — who is supposed to under- stand English since she teaches it, but who nevertheless comprehends not a word. However, as she would not confess this even under torture, though the whole school is aware of the fact, she behaves as if she were making a third in this con- versation of two, and thus she satisfies the exigencies of French society. If a spy and listener is present with young people the Gallic Madame Grundy is content. Aware of this beautiful fact, Oliver is polite to the Heavy, and hands her the books occasionally and bestows on her scraps of French, as if they were parts of his obser- vations to Eose. Sometimes he wickedly tries English, a system which frightens the poor dragon and makes her excessively Forcjotten Lives. 4i7 civil. Behind Eose sits Fatima, who does understand a word now and then, and who, in the depths of her own brain, is convinced of plots, intrigues, assignations, and horrors, especially when she catches the word Caerlerrick, the sound of which is associated in her mind with a mystery whicii even sleep-walking has not yet enabled her to unravel. Delighted as Eose is at Oliver's flattery, she is not pleased to see her somnambulist friend listening with a serious intentness that deprives her fat countenance of all expression. She turns over a page hastily. " What an irritating picture !" Eose ex- claims ; " it is so stupid and staring, and looks asleep, but is just as wide awake as when it haunts people at night. We had better not talk any more." This last in a mumble. ''Indeed I mean to hear a great deal more," returns Oliver under his moustache ; '' we'll get rid of this picture altogether. Madame," to the heavy dragon, " these books are rather inconvenient to hold. May I place this small table here ? Now if mademoiselle will move her chair a little further back there will just be room nicely.'' 48 Foraotten Lives. t/ The thing is done. Fatima is politely put out of earshot, and understands the manoeuvre completely, although her coun- tenance, like a masked battery, keeps blank. She gives them one fat smile and then sits ruminating revenge. They are a close party of three now, but the poor Heavy has no chance against Light Horse — she counts for nothing. Oliver de Beau voir enjoys a comedy and 23lays it well. He mingles French and English, music, photographs, and travels, with his talk to Rose. ^'What is the mystery at Oaerlerrick ?" he asks boldly. " There is something odd there I know besides ghosts, skeletons, and the mummy housekeeper, who is a female Methuselah." *' There is a queer secret room," Rose anwers — ''a dreadful place !" " Which is no secret at all ; strangers go to see it. The staircase by which it is reached is within the thickness of the wall, as you often see in ancient castles. This one especially, Madame Dalle, has a dun- geon, a big cask holding a thousand gallons, and a horn which the devil blows once a year. There is some story about a bell, Forgotten Lives. 49 too, wiiicli the gliosts ring sometimes. Has Lady Tregethas told you that ?" This soft! 3^ to Eose. "No," returns Eose; "she never jests about Caerlerrick." " This is no jest — it is true. Servants leave the place sometimes in consequence. Either they have been too curious or they are terrified." "What nonsense!" Eose says; "you quite frighten me !" " I am sorry you are going to such a place. Yes, mademoiselle" — in French — "this is a terrible castle; its master is a moody, gloomy tyrant who shuts himself up there alone with his beautiful lady, and never permits her to see a visitor. He has a reputation for being half-mad, and his temper is at times furious. Moreover, his first wife ran away from him." Eose listens with parted lips, and a shade of fear darkens her light eyes. " And how does the story end ?" asks the deluded dragon. " I am vexed to say I cannot tell you. But I have a half promise from a friend, who is going to the castle soon, that she will enlighten me as to the rest." VOL. II. 4 50 For (/off en Lives. "If I were to make such a promise," Eose says in her own tongue, " T should not dare to keep it." '' Yes, you would to me. I would have told your mother much about Sir Cuthbert Tregethas had she been frank with me. I have often thought of her since. I fear she cannot be happy ?" " Not very, I think," Eose says. " But Sir Cuthbert is wonderfully rich, is he not?" " Yes, and tyrannical." Eose is thinking of the beauty of money, and scarcely heeds this. "And he hates his nearest neighbour," continues Oliver, " my brother-in-law, Bosperis. He finds out the oddest ways of annoying him." " Does he ? How curious 1" " Then you know nothing of it ?" And Oliver looks into her little rose face keenly. "Nothing, I assure you. And I think it very unkind of mamma that vshe never tells me anything — except, you know, what she cant help, such hints as peep out of letters when one writes in gloom and soli- tude, as I suppose she does. Oh, what will Forgotteii Lives. 51 become of me when I get to Caerlerrick? I can't bear being unhappy." " Neither can I. We'll meet and amuse each other." " That's not likely." " But suppose I promise you that we will?" " I should not believe you. You'll never give me another thought after you are once gone." AVith his long fair moustache Oliver hides a tendency to smile. " I shall give you many thoughts. I shall look forward to our meeting." " You are much more likely to see Barbara than me," retorts Itose, as her red lips pout at him in ripe beauty. " Thanks. I don't intend to risk a bowie- knife in my ribs. I have a wholesome fear of American lovers. Come, let us make a compact, Ptose. I'll travel all the way to Cornwall to see you, if you'll promise not to cut me when I arrive." "Why should I do that?" " Because most likely you will be for- bidden to speak to me." " I am not under Sir Cuthbert's orders. I shall not mind them." 4 — 2 UN/VERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARf 52 Forgotten Lives. " Then you'll acknowledge my acquain- tance by a bow, I suppose ?" '^ISTonsense ! I shall speak to you of course." " That's a promise, mind," very eagerly ; then quietly to the big governess, "1 fear you are tired of these castle legends, madame, especially in English." " Alt contraire. Je voiis ecoute avec plaisirJ' " I am exceedingly glad to hear it, as I am just in the middle of a story. What a delicious old creature she is ! No, I'll go on in French. The knight returns un- expectedly, and seeks his lady-love at their trysting-place. Before they parted he had gained a promise, that she would await him every evening at five, in the ruins of a chapel on his enemy's domain. You'l] easily find the place" — this in English. " But when — what month ? It would be rather tiresome, would it not, every even- ing of one's life ?" " When are you going home ?" " Next May." " Then it shall be July. I'll come down to Bosanken sea-fishing. You follow me in English, madame ?" For (J off en Lives. 53 ''Je vous compr ends parf ait ement, monsieur.^'' '' What a comfort she is only fibbing ! You 11 come ?" anxiously to Eose. " Yes." Beneath the cover of the album he touches her hand for an instant, sending a little thrilling flame straight from her heart to burn upon her cheeks. '' She looks suspicious," he continues. "I'll tell the rest in French. Now the enemy holds a secret in his castle by which he injures and torments the knight's sister, and he has sworn upon his sword that he will never marry, and never love till this sister is freed from her foe. The beautiful damsel, though watched continually, gains this secret, tells it to her lover, and wins his heart for ever." " Very well, very pretty !" ejaculates the duenna. But Eose is silent and somewhat frightened, though vanity, and coquetry, and triumph are thrilling through her veins, and lighting up eyes and cheeks in brilliant beauty. " You don't like the conclusion ?" Oliver says, glancing at her curiously. " You are vexed ?" 54 Forgotten Lives. "No, not vexed," she answers; "but I have heard another ending." " Yes, the lady refuses to help the knight, and he rides away and forgets her." Eose grows crimson. "JSTo, not that. The lady is unable to discover the secret, the dragon watches her too closely." Oliver laughs, and comes back to English again. " What are dragons ?" he says. "Look how you treat them here ! Poor things ! they are so easily overcome."^ " I don't mean a governess," Eose re- turns; "it is a dragon of quite another sort." " At Caerlerrick ?" " Yes." " Please explain. I am lost." " The explanation is mere nonsense. It was a sort of fairy tale mamma made one day when we were talking of her marriage. She said such a fortune, such a castle would not come begging to a stranger unless there was a dragon in it. Then afterwards she wrote and said — ' There is a dragon, and an ugly one.' There, that's the dragon I mean." For(joiten Lives. 55 This speech tells Oliver more than Eose thinks. He is doubly curious, more firmly bent now than ever on carrying on an adventure that may lead to the truth. He has been happily careless all his life ; he does not stay to consider that Eose may suffer a little. Meanwhile the fagged duenna has caught the word "dragon.'' She believes . they have plunged into the army. She considers it improper a young lady should ever name a dragoon. *' Of what dragoons does monsieur speak ?" she asks stiffly. Oliver punishes her by answering in Eno^lish — ? " Oh, an awfully swell corps — a crack regiment called the Queen's Heavies !'' Then seeing her comically distressed face, the simper of feigned comprehension, and the real anxietj^ in her eyes, he goes back to French. " iSTot a dragoon, a dragon, madam e. Miss Carteret insists that in her version of the legend there is a dragon." " Eh hien .^" And the poor creature yawns a little, being tired of duty. 56 Foffjotten Lives. " Oh, nothing ! He is a myth ; he can't molest the lovers." *'But what if he did?" asks Eose. " Oh, then there would be bloodshed of course. The knight slays him." '' Or he kills the lady," returns Kose with a little shudder. "It is a great risk for a girl to beard a dragon in his den." " No risk at all," rejoins Oliver. " I shall expect to see you in July at the ap- pointed place. Promise me you'll keep your word." He looks up for her answer, and catches the eye of the lizard fixed upon him watch- fully. He turns away at once, but some- thing in his look makes Oliver uneasy, especially as he sees him turn to his wife and speak earnestly. His words reach madame only. " Estelle, what is that pretty little serpent doing to-night ? Look at her quietly and tell me. I know by the glitter in her eye she has poisoned some one's life." " My dear Achille, what ideas you have ! The girl is simply an ordinary girl. And that good Madame Dalle is there. She Forcjotien Lives. 57 understands English perfectly. I have no fear of the least inconvcnance!' " I am not thinking of les convenances. I tell 3"ou she has poisoned some one. And I believe it is poor Barbara," adds the kindly lizard to himself. " Go, Estelle, make her play or sing. She has had her own way too long." There are times when madame obeys her husband implicitl3\ She. obeys now, and Eose finds herself led awa}^ captive. When she has left her seat, Oliver shuts the book in his hand w^earily and saunters away. " Ah ! she has got that young man in her folds ; she will never let him go. You are going to sing. Mademoiselle Eose ? Petite vipere ! I will accompany you. Part of this is of course soliloquy, and part is said aloud, as the lizard seizes his violin and flourishes the bow with fury. Meanwhile, madame, -smiling and saying a vv'ord or two to her guests as she passes, makes her way to heavy Madame Dalle and beckons her aside. " What have those two been talking: of?" 58 Forgotten Lives. " Nothing particular, madame — photo- graphs, Ehiiie legends, castles, ruins." " You are quite certain ?" " Sans doiite, madame." " Have they spoken French or English ?" "Both; sometimes one, sometimes the other." " And have you understood all that was said ?" " Have I understood ?" in pained sur- prise. '' "Why, madame, certainly yes." A slight cough here attracts madame's attention, and she perceives Tatima, and catches from her round bright eyes a curious inspiration. She addresses the governess in the tongue she teaches. " You haf hear all dey say, and you haf comprehen' — very sure ?" Now the poor Heavy understands ma- dame's English perfectly. If only the English themselves would speak their language in this clear style, how easy her path would be ! She answers without a moment's hesitation — " I listened, madame, as was my duty, and heard all the conversation." This is said with sorrowful dignity, as feeling herself unjustly doubted. Madame Forgotten Lives. 59 retires satisfied, but in passing Fatima stops a moment. " You perceive," slie observes, " Madame Dalle understood me perfectly. I can- not permit tlie slightest imputation even in thought on the efficiency of my teacher." The stout somnambulist bears this re- buke meekly. She is too wise to cast any shadow on madame's English, which throughout the school is generally held to be more perfect than the native article itself. But as madame sweeps on she cannot help looking after her with one of those fat smiles on her oyster face which express so much. " It would be curious if that poor Dalle could not understand her,'' she says to herself. " It is rather different, as I know" — with a deep sigh — " when English people mumble and gabble together like monkeys. And so she'll find out when there's a grand scandal through the plots, and assig- nations, and secrets of those nasty English girls." Fatima ends with a virtuous groan of disgust, shutting her eyes the more deepl}^ to enjoy the pent-up conviction of coming 60 Forgotten Lives. horrors on wliicli she sups so pleasantly and sleeps upon her feet so adroitly. "You are tired, mademoiselle/' says a pleasant voice. And positively here is this handsome Englishman seating himself by her side, looking at her, willing to be attentive — no ! to amuse himself at her expense. With one glance of those queer sea-green eyes, she sees this. Impervious as a rock grows Fatima, she makes her face expressionless as a mutton bone ; Oliver might beat his brains out against her fat body, and yet learn nothing of the thoughts v/ithin. " You look weary, mademoiselle. Let me fetch you some refreshment." There is never any objection on the part of Fatima to refreshment. It is fetched ; it is eaten. She opens her mouth widely enough for Oliver's inspection, but shuts up her cunning little mind the tighter with every mouthful. " Does supper ever deprive you of sleep ?" asks Oliver in his most insinuating lone. " Oh dear no !" "I was interested just now in hearing you were somewhat of a somnambulist." For(joUen Lives. 61 " Yes ?" returns Fatima with the slightest tremble of her eyelids. " Who told you ?" " Oh, a friend. And do 3^ou often walk in your sleep ?" " No," a little sulkily. " I think I or your friend must inform madame of it. The custom is dangerous at times." Fatima blinks visibly now, and the dull yellow of her face deepens. " I run no risk ; there is no need to mention it to madame." " Pardon me, you run great risks. But if you feel jo\x are cured, and are Reve7' likely to be afflicted again, there will of course be no necessity for your friends naming it." The impertinence of this threat is masked by a perfect politeness of tone and manner. Fatima writhes inwardly, and breathes vows of dire revenge, but sees never- theless that her sole course now must be submission. " Thanks for your kindness. I feel my- self perfectly cured." " You are quite convinced of that, I trust, because otherwise madame ouglit to get you medical advice." 62 Forgotten Lives, She glances at him in comical terror; she looks so helpless, fat, and miserable that Oliver smiles with cruel satisfaction. "There is no need, I assure you. I know quite well it will 7iever happen again." " I am glad to hear it. Somnambulists sometimes have strange faculties ; they can compose music and poetry, and write and o^ead letters. A curious gift, is it not ?" " I don't think she will annoy Eose Carteret again," Oliver says to himself as he saunters away. He has made a great mistake, and gained for that young lady a bitter enemy. CHAPTEE IV. the cousin wins !" said Oliver in angry soliloquy :, as lie sat smoking liis solitary cigar, " and I have wasted six v/eeks of my life on a schoolgirl ! Tell it not in Grath, lest the Philistines re- joice and make merry. Yet on the whole I ought to be glad. Yes, I am glad in fact, for I am saved from proving myself a fool. It would have been a mistake altogether. I was mad to think of it ; but when a man gets infatuated his senses leave him. Well, now the comedy ends, as it should, with a marriage, and that marriage, luckily for me, not mine. But I have had a narrow escape. ' Master Oliver ! Master Oliver ! take better care of yourself next time !' That's what my old Devonshire nurse used to say to me when I had had a bad tumble. I must lay her counsel to heart for the future. Ah ! Theresa little thinks how, in following up her myth, her brother has nearly fallen into 64 For (J often Lives. the pitfall and the snare laid for the nn- warv. The little jilt ! the miserable, deceit- ful little flirt ! and engaged to her cousin all the while ! In love with a lout, a lean Yankee, his head bristling with bowie- knives, and his body lurking behind a belted barricade of Colt's revolvers. I wish her joy of him !" Here Oliver flung his cigar through the open window, and began pacing the long polished boards of his chamber. Again, again, and again he turned, and lastly halted before the table on which his letters lay. Then he took them up one by one, and some he read, and others, in big blue envelopes, he flung aside with an ugly frown upon his handsome face. '' Psha 1" he said sulkily, " a fellow never has money enough to live on, that I see. I am getting into a fix and a quagmire with all these bills. And I see no way out of it either, unless — unless a rich heiress fell in my way. What a madman I was — in debt as I am — to give myself the privilege of falling in love with a poor girl — a girl not of my class — not fitted for me, even if I were rich enough to indulge myself in such an extravagant freak as matrimony ! And I Forfjoiten Lives, 65 was thinking of it in ni}" mad way, seriously. I was in tlie vortex, drawing on towards the fatal plunge, when little Eose Carteret's hand plucked me out. Upon my word, I am infinitely obliged to her. Not that her' motive is a very noble one — a little feminine spite, a spice of jealousy, a very laudable desire to flirt with me herself. By-the~bye, that mad old baronet has no children ; she stands a good chance of getting all the Tregethas property one day. It might be worth my Avhile to make that impromptu legend into a drama of real life. We shall see ; it can stand on the cards till next year, when, at all events, I'll dive into the Caer- lerrick mystery with that little girl's help." This idea gave him food for thought, and as he paced the room again he went over mentally all his conversation with Eose, and dwelt on the feasibility of his plan for pierc- ing the enigma which perplexed him. His thoughts were not all selfish, mixed though they Vv'ere ; he loved his sister, and the de- sire to see her happier was ever a dominant motive amid the complicated feelings now moving his rather narrow heart. If Eose should prove to be an heiress worth winning, the possession of the Caer- VOL. II. 5 6(5 Forgotten Lives. lerrick secret avouIcI be of invaluable service, as it vv^ould place Sir Cutlibert in liis power, and prevent all opposition on liis part. Un- consciously, perhaps, his thoughts took this shape, adding that leaven of selfish- ness to his desire to aid Theresa which had already governed his actions in his search for Barbara. Among the letters he had thrown aside was one from his sister. He selected it now from the heap, and read it through slowly, stopping to reflect on each paragraph as he proceeded. '' Bosperis wdth her ! What a singular anomaly that man is, hating and slighting his wife at home, yet accompanying her abroad as if she were the dearest object of his tenderness 1 ' Come to Paris and in- troduce Miss Lethbridge to me yourself.' No, no, that is impossible ; I cannot do that !" A sudden movement of impatience seized him, and he started up and paced the room again. There was a pang at his heart at sight of Barbara's name which almost startled him from his careless selfishness. " I dare not see her. I should do some mad thing. I cannot trust myself with the For(jotten Lives, 67 siglit of lier and her lover togetlier. I should carry her off from the fellow, that would be the end of it. What chance would he liave if I chose to compete the prize with him? The girl has a tendresse forme, that's certain, and the Yankee could not stand his ground a moment if I came into the field, even if all the advantage I have over him socially could be left out of the contest, which it can't be." The inferiority of his rival, the vulgarity of his rival thus dwelt on, sootlied him con- siderably, but somehow they also detracted from Barbara's worth in his estimation. " After all," he said, pausing for a moment in his hurried walk, "he is most likely the girl's equal in every respect; and-^-and things are better as they are. She acts wisely in wishing me not to follow her to Paris ; it shows she recognises the difference between us, and the utter impossibility — yes, it is impossible. I discard the thought from my mind for ever. When T think seriously of marriage again, it shall be of one befitting a De Beau voir, and it shall have in it that one sure element of success — money '^ More than half his soreness of heart had 5—2 68 For (/of ten Lives. arisen from that unexpected turn of affairs tlirougli which Barbara had quitted him, leaving him no longer the liberty to quit her. The latent determination to do this one day, as generously and magnanimously as circumstances would permit, had always lingered with him, and a great vexation overwhelmed him when the tide of events left him stranded alone, to play the part of the deserted one himself. To draw off one's hounds from the hare is a thing not unflattering to one's prowess, but for the hare herself to double and escape, and set one at defiance, is a sting to vanity hard to bear. Now, however, that by dint of self-flattery Oliver De Beauvoir had set things right with himself, now that he was persuaded he had only to hold up his finger to win, and was magnanimously abstaining from consideration to his family and his caste, the fever of his anger abated, his love ap- peared to him once more as a romantic episode in v/hich he could not afibrd honour- ably to indulge, and his old self-content sat again serenely on the careless beauty of his face. He drew writing materials towards him. Tor (J of ten Lives, 09 and, with a hand grown cool and steady, lie penned a few lines to his sister, inclosing in his letter Barbara's card of address. " You wall find her perfectly presentable," he wrote, '' and even charming, for she has a peculiar quiet grace of manner wdiich makes her presence as soothing as music. I never knew any one but a Quakeress possess the charm of simplicity to the degree she does. I cannot make you any promise with regard to her surroundings, for I know nothing of them beyond the surmise that one of them will prove to be a Yankee lover, to whom she is engaged, and who is also her cousin. This fact alone should convince you that she is a very unmythi(;al person- age, and far too sensible ever to be mixed up with the Caerlerrick madness. " I cannot come to Paris at present. I have promised to join Winterholt at Dieppe, where he has his yacht, and I may go on to Norway with him,'' '' In fact I shall," said Oliver to himself musingly. " It is the best thing I can do. Her face wont haunt me in Norway as it would in France or England. Next year, when I go to Bosanken, she will be away in America — and — married." 70 Forgotten Lives. And here for awhile we leave Oliver De Eeauvoir content, in spite of some mis- givings, with the self-laudation of a man who loves wisely and not too well. * Tif * ^ * Paris before the days of the Prussians and the Commune, Paris in the pros- perity of its Empire time — this was the period at which Barbara saw it, and won- dered at its beauty and its wealth. She was plunged at once into a whirl of gaiety. Skilful tacticians in all things as they are, the Americans excel especially in that diplo- macy which may be called social. Salons the most exclusive throw their doors wide for them, and talent, rank, and fashion seem ever ready to give them a welcome. In a strange city, where an English middle- class family would have moped alone, sulky at their isolation, and yet suspicious of every human being who drew near them, these happy Americans had found friends every- where; and they enjoyed themselves with a zest, and yet with a careless ease and grace, which charmed, as the happiness of childhood charms, by its freshness, sim- plicity, and reality- Barbara thus, for the first time, found Forijoifeii Lives. 71 herself in societ}^ and nnder happy auspices, for she was with people who enjoyed it with fresh hearts, people whose curiosity was un- sated, and whose belief in pleasure had as yet received no check. She herself lived as in a dream. Things took an unreal shape to her, and flitted by her sense like visions. There were times when she doubted her own identity, and felt as though her real self were still shut up in the asylum in the old ignorance, hunger, ugliness, and pain, and this self, bedizened with jewels and finery, w^as a false Barbara, a mere shadow tak- ing her shape, and striving to beguile the world. And she was right. The Barbara of that long, sad, bitter time had a deeper, a more living reality than the Barbara of the salons smiling at her own pain. One night, at a ball given by a princess, she sat apart at the end of a long conser- vatory, and through the leaves and flowers she watched the dancers flitting to and fro. They flashed and gleamed, like moving pictures, nothing more to her, and the sound of their laughter came upon her abruptly through the music, like a startling voice; from some mocking and unseen world. She 72 Forr/oflen Lives. felt utterly alone, as some exiled and sor- rowful spirit might feel, watching the revels of fairies — a spirit who had fought and wept, suffered and died, while the fairies were thoughtless, soulless, and light as the lightest gossamer floating on the wind. She sat in the solitude of her own soul, the sound of music and laughter, dancing feet, and murmuring voices mingling, like the flow of many v/aters, while she went back in spirit to St. Cecilia's, and sat again in the dreary schoolroom by the dull, dwindling fire, cheerless and shivering, hungry and forlorn. Once more she seemed to see the pale depressed crowd of girls, the pinched, blue look on their sharp faces, the apathy and dejection in their hollow eyes, the awkwardness of igno- rance in their gaunt limbs, and as they passed before her, vivid and intense as her own memory of them, they shut out flowers, and lights, and dancers, and grew more real a thousand times than these could ever be. Once more she mingled amongst them, silent yet angry, weary yet eager, patient yet burning with a sense of her wrongs, ignorant yet yearning to be taught, with brain perishing in the ache and emptiness For(jotten Lives. of lier life, and heart on fire with its own anguish. Once more she saw herself thus among" the crowd, and felt the pressure and ugliness of the old asylum uniform, and the shiver creeping over bare neck and arms. Then she started and looked down to see them glittering with jewels, and smiled with contempt of herself for wearing them. It was but the opening of a door, that shiver which awoke her, and, as some silent hand closed it, she returned unconsciously to her old dream. " Why am I here ?" she said to herself. " What have I to do with scenes like this ? I have nothing in common with these people. Their memories are not like mine ; they never knew hunger or thirst, or <cruelty or scorn ; they have never worn the livery of charity, or wept in bitterness over the waste of years, and the quenching of young hope and energy. No, the world has been sweet to them, life has been a fair pathway, and their souls have been watered by loving hands. My life lies hid among the shel- tered and covered sins of which the world never thinks. My soul stands always among the forgotten lives of the helpless, who suffer daily death under a system i\\Q world 74 Forfjotten Lives. calls charity. Oh, I am sick of lies ! But the lie which fattens on Benevolence, and clothes itself with Pity, making a market of the orphan, is the direst lie of all !" Her indignation flushed her face and made her lips tremble, and she rested her brow upon her hands, overcome for a moment by the fire kindling within her. " I cannot escape from my old life," she said to herself wearily ; " the memory of St. Cecilia burns in my spirit unceasingly. I am not fit for the world of rank, of pleasure, of wealth, like this I see around me. I do not belong to it. Who has been so quick to know this as Oliver de Beauvoir ? He has seen it, and he has left me. No denizen of his world shall ever touch my heart again." Her lip curled half in scorn of her own weakness^ but her tears fell also, quenching pride in love's bitterness. To give way to weeping is eas}^, but it is hard to restrain tears when they once find a way to fiow. In vain Barbara dashed hers aside; they rose to her eyes again and again, and the sense of her loneliness giving her freedom, she gave way at last, and covering her face with her hands, she wept for a few Forgotten Lives. 75 moments in unrestrained passion and re- lief. " I fear you are not well," said a sudden voice, in tones more than courteously anxious. Starting up in burning confusion, Barbara saw the figure of a gentleman standing near the closed door of the conservatory, over which a silk curtain now fell shadowy. "I — I am quite well, thanks," she answered hurriedly. Her tears were all gone. The shock, the surprise, had stilled her emotion instantly, and she was only angry it had been wit- nessed. " Then you are in grief," said the gentle- man, coming forward from the shadow in which he stood, " and a grief to the young is enormous and terrible." As he spoke again, the light falling on him now, Barbara recognised the voice and face of a gentleman whom she had met several times in society, and always with renewed interest. He was. not a young man, but he was still handsome, though his hair was gre}^, and his whole expression cynical, proud, and somewhat hard. In addressing Barbara, however, this expression 76 For(jotien Lives. vanished, and there was a kindness in his eyes, a gentleness in his tones, which ap- peared to say that he made an exception in her favour, and singled her out from the crowd as one standing apart. This manner of treating her had its charm, and though Barbara did not know his name, and had never asked it, she had not refused many a silent attention from his hand. Somehow he seemed to divine her wants, and a win- dow was opened or closed, refreshment sent for, or a seat found just as she needed it ; and all this was done quietly, with just a smile between them for thanks. He never asked her to dance, though he was often among the dancers, and Barbara knew, by some subtle intuition, that he would never ask her, and in her heart she thanked him. She had perceived that he chose his partners neither for rank, beauty, nor wit, but simply be- cause they were good dancers, and she guessed that for him dancing was a mere animal pleasure, and he took the best of it he could get. He would no more ask lier to share this pleasure with him than he would crush in his hand a delicate flower that he admired, or drag a nightingale, whose music soothed him, from its native grove- Forf/otfcn Lives. 77 to a prison to sing to him wliile he slept. How or wherefore slie liacl won the high and chivah'ous respect of this unknown heart, this silent, reserved spirit, Barbara knew not, she only felt it was so. She felt also his was a devotion of the spirit only, not of the senses, for the gallantry he dis- played too lavishly to other women never floated near her even in a single breath. Often she caught his eyes fixed on her in an earnest and almost yearning look, and there was no more of earth in them than there is in the steadfast, longing gaze with which our eyes follow the lark in his upward flight to the clear calm of heaven. As Barbara recognised this unknown friend she smiled, and her anger vanished. " I am sorry to be childish and nervous,'^ she said, '' especially at such an ill-chosen time, but I am thankful to be spared the pain of being seen. You saved me from intruders, you closed the door just now ?" " Yes," he answered simply. Then, after a moment's hesitation, he added — " I hope you do not think me intrusive in remain- ing here myself I feared you might need help." 78 JForgoUen Lives. Barbara was silent. '' I perceive you would have considered me kinder in leaving you alone," he con- tinued almost sadly ; " but — yes, I'Jl con- fess the truth — I was so astonished to see you agitated — you, usually so calm — that I lost my presence of mind in the fear you might be ill. You spoke just now of being nervous, childish, but you are neither. You were not frank when you said that, so you are ill, or you have some real sorrow. Which is it ?" " I am not ill," returned Barbara, " and my pain of mind is not new to me." " "Will you believe when a stranger says he is sorry to hear you say that ? Not sorry for you only," he hastened to add, as he saw Barbara look towards the door, as though anxious to escape, " but sorry for all the unhappy still young enough to weep. Tears, you know, mean hope, and the day comes to us all when hope seems the bit- terest mockery ever flung upon a mad world. You see I am like all the tribe of comforters, I mingle gall with the drink I offer." Barbara smiled again. " In my case tears may not mean hope," Forgotten Lives. 79- she said ; " i\\^y may belong to me- mory." " To memory ! And yon so yonng !" and a smile half tonched his lip, then vanished. " And a yonthful sorrow seems to yon a foolish or a light thing," said Barbara, answering his thought ; '' but you forget it may be the fate of some to have even the remembrance of childhood made bitter to them." He looked at her in momentary surprise. " It may be so, but it is a bitterness they can recover." " No, they cannot/' returned Barbara sorrowfull}'. " The first fifteen years of life are the root of all future years, and if the root be sown with salt the leaves will be bitter and the fruit sour. And wayfarers and friends will turn away with distaste," she added, with eyes looking into his face straightforwardly in candid sadness. He drew nearer to her and sat down, and Barbara saw with surprise that her words liad agitated him strangely. " You remind me," he said in a moment, " of a lady I once knew — not that you are like her — Heaven forbid ! But she pleaded so Forr/offen Lives. in excuse for the narrowness rind bitterness of her nature a cruel father, an unhappy childhood, and — I would not allow the plea/' It cost him an effort to say this, and there w^as silence an instant before he went on again.* '' I confess the repulsion, the aversion of which you speak were ever present with me, while the apology was far off. I could not recognise it. I had no mercy. Do you know your words struck me as a reproach ?" There was so much pain in the look with which he regarded her that Barbara had a strange glimpse of his heart, and felt like one wdio looks suddenl}^ down into a dark place. " I was speaking only of myself," she answered. " I could not mean a reproach to a stranger whose life is to me a blank." " I know it," he returned hastily ; " but there are coincidences, strange associations of ideas, at times — never mind them now. Will you let me speak to you of yourself again? I am fearful the avowal I have made may strengthen you in a morbid belief. I want to say, that although I have Forgotten Lives. 81 confessed to a dislike for a person whose childhood was unhappy, I will not allow that that unhappiness was the cause eitlier of my dislike or of her gloomy nature. And I will adduce yourself in proof of my asser- tion. Your childhood was hard, you say, perhaps it was even terrible, yet your nature is pure and true ; and although you may not think so, you can never inspire any other feeling but love and esteem, except in the case of meeting with a narrow, envious, or worldly heart. There you would be hated, I grant." Barbara blushed painfully, not at the compliment his words implied, but because her thought rushed towards Oliver with the sad conviction that were she " one pure and perfect chrysolite," and yet not of his caste, he would pass her by, or hold her only as a toy to be flung aside. "I am a rebel against fate," she said, trying to smile, " and I fear even your good opinion will not reconcile me to the past, the present, or the future." " Your answer means that you retire behind your armour of reserve," returned the stranger, ^'and will tell me no more. I am trying to reconcile you with yourself VOL. II. 6 82 Forgotten Lives. — ^your liappier self — and not with time or circumstance." " But I must always stand in the place where these have put me," said Barbara sadly, "because I am a woman. Every career of enterprise, of honour, of ambition is closed to me. Dull discontent or settled apathy alone lies within my choice. Which of these will reconcile me to myself?" Her companion was silent. He had thought he was speaking to a girl only. He found he was dealing with a human soul which has no sex. After a moment's thought he gave her the consolation a man always offers. " Surely you have love within your choice," he said. ''Is it not enough ? Is it not better than discontent or apathy ?" " Eather is it not the worst of the three ?" asked Barbara, hiding her trembling lip with an attempt to smile. "' Has it sufficed to you for all your life's hunger, or has it been like the Dead Sea fruit, sweet to the eye and ashes in the mouth ?" He laughed, a short, abrupt laugh, and glanced at her as if he thought she had some deeper meaning in her words ; but she looked back at him with honest, For (/off en Lives. 83 sorrowful eyes, and her face was pale and earnest. " Never mind what love has been to me," he said, " I am a man ; it must be far more to a woman than a man/' " Believe me, it is no more to her than to him,'' answered Barbara a little scornfully. "It is made more through the cruelty of custom, because she is expected to win her bread through love — not her own, but the man's. In marriage I see constantly her affection or her indifference alike counts for nothing. Man is rich, woman is poor ; thus all the anxieties and fears of poverty, de- pendence, and failure are laid upon our young girls' heads in England till they marry. I am an English girl ; would you add love to the miseries of husband -hunt- ing ? Surely you would give me a bitter burden to bear." She spoke in irony, but frankly and fear- lessl}^ because in her heart she knew she was not placed in that race. She was no competitor for any man's love, and never would be. Oliver had left her. Hence- forth she meant to find strength to walk alone. *' You hold odd opinions," said her com- 6—2 84 Forgotten Lives. panion, bending on her a penetrating look, " and you speak too bitterly. At your age you should be enthusiastic for love. You should wait for grey hairs like mine, and perhaps for grief like mine — though I hope that will never come to you — before you should speak thus." '•' Would you advise me to beat my heart against a rock, or remain a child till grey hairs come ?" asked Barbara mournfully. " Illusions and snares are for the young, not for those made old before their time, not for those taught the bitter lessons of life in childhood." "Ah, I see the salt is still at the roots. It is only a generous love, a long-enduring, patient love, that can cure you — a nobler love than you can find in such a w^orld as this." "Always love," saidBarbara,alittle angrily; " never ambition, never fame, never honour. You men confess that love never suffices for your own lives, and yet it is all you offer to us women — that and coarse drudgery, the lowest drudgery the world has, and ignorance and poverty. As if we had not passions, ambitions, and eager desires for fame, like yourselves ! — all crushed," she added; drooping her head forward on her Forgotten Lives, 85 hands, " yet burning within us like sup- pressed fires, devouring heart and brain. Ah, the dull discontent or the dead apathy is the sole relief we can hope for. Happy is the woman who is born stupid, content all her life to ' suckle fools and chronicle small beer !' " " And you would leave love to them," said the gentleman, " and make the nobler women nuns? The stupid ones are good enough for wives and mothers ; is that your idea ?" " No, no ; the mothers should be the noblest of all. Whose fault is it they are not ? It is the man, who chooses the mother of his children ; it is man, who has decreed that slavery, ignorance, poverty, a depressed vitality in all things — physical, moral, in- tellectual — are good enough for mother- hood. In his abject fear of rivalship, these things suit him best in wives he thinks, and he forgets that his son's soul will one day be in his wife's hands, and she will mould it for good or evil. Mean, narrow- minded, ignorant women mar and wither the young souls given them ; they can but teach what they know, they can but mete out to the man-child the scanty measure that man has meted to them. Thus the 86 Forgotten Lives. whole human race suffers through this wrong, and the world is retarded in its path to the light. When sons turn out ill, it is too often because a man has chosen ill in marriage." "And put a heavy curse on himself. You speak to the point there. Perhaps you know somewhat of my story — do you ?" " Nothing/' said Barbara. " I do not even know your name." "Nor I yours. Yet I think we are friends. May I say so?" At this question Barbara blushed in sudden remembrance that she was pouring out her heart to a stranger, and she was here alone, sinning against French etiquette, exposing herself to the cruelty of French tongues. A sense of annoyance touched her at the smallness of her own freedom, yet she yielded to the coercion of custom, and she rose hastily and spoke in a timid voice. "I believe we can scarcely say that we are even acquaintances, but I thank you very much for listening patiently to some of my discontent. You have been very gentle towards it, though you could not sympathize with me. I must try now to Forgoiten Lives. find my chaperone. Once more thanks, and good-bye." " Are you going ? I see I have done wrong to speak personally. I should have allowed you to expatiate on the theme nearest your heart; you would have for- gotten time then." " Have I forgotten it now ?' said Bar- bara, looking at her watch. " I fear indeed I have stayed here too long." She had grown embarrassed, and angry with herself that she had talked with so much egotism, eagerness, and openness to a stranger, and that stranger a man. " Being a woman, I am a soul in prison," she said to herself. " Prisoners feign con- tent, but I have let one of the gaolers see that I feel my chains. I have sinned against the rules; all other women would hate me for it." "I would venture to ask your name," said this particular gaoler, getting before her, and standing at the door, "but I fear to vex you. Shall I tell you mine ?" " No, thanks," said Barbara gravely. " Well, you are quite right. It is not a pretty name ; it means * Haunted-house' in 88 'Fovfjotten Lives. English. And singularly appropriate it is too," he added with a sharp laugh. There was a curious change in him ; he had grown bitter, and Barbara saw it. "Are you not English?" she asked, her curiosity roused again. " I am English as much as a Breton is a Erenchman, if you can understand that. I am from C or n wall . ' ' "Are you indeed!" said Barbara with interest. " And do you know a place called Caerlerrick ?" " Caerlerrick 1" he repeated in an amazed tone. " Yes, I know it.'" "And what is it like?" "Like a private Bedlam. I hope you are in no way connected with such a den of savagery." Barbara looked at him in astonishment, his tone was so bitter, his voice was so full of hate. "I am not connected with it," she an- swered, "but I am rather interested in it, and am i^oiTy to hear a bad account of it." " Why ?" he asked harshly. " And what is your interest in that abode of ghosts and lunatics ?" Forgotten Lives. 89 Surprised at his tone, Barbara answered coldly — " I was interested in a description I received of it from a cousin, who visited it as a stranger about three years ago ; and since then a schoolfellow of mine has told me But here Barbara stopped, remembering the revelations Eose had made were secret. " Told you ?" said the gentleman im- patiently. "Nothing I can repeat. Pray let me pass. I fear my long absence will be sub- ject of remark." The real distress in her voice, the sudden reserve and timidity of her manner, coming so soon — woman-like — after a burst of courage and frankness, struck her com- panion almost painfully. His mood changed instantly, his voice grew gentle, even, anxious in its tone. " I had forgotten," he said, " that the French Madame Grrundy is a mixture of cat and cobra. Do stay here, and let me fetch the lady you are with. Mrs. Dale, is it not ? I will tell her you have been suffer- ing slightly, and are here alone. I will go this wav." 90 Forgotten Lives, He was gone before Barbara could answer, passing through, a glass door leading to an open balcony, with staircase descending to the garden. By this means he avoided the crowded salon, and rejoined the guests by another way. Barbara understood his motive, and a blush of annoyance tingled her cheek. " I should not care if the whole world had seen me here talking with him. Why does he act as if he thought it would be better for me that the world did not know it? Cannot I speak to a man frankly, face to face, soul to soul." continued Barbara to herself indignantly, " without his putting on the air of supposing it to be a sin against conventionalities ? And is it so ? Are the trammels indeed so strait around us that free discussion, free interchange of thought, by which we could help each other so muchj are made impossible, between man and woman? But I remember now he discussed nothing with me ; he never an- swered my discontent; he only bore with me as we bear the pleadings of a fractious child. The weariness and anguish, the dull ache and pain moaning through the heart of woman are things unworthy of man's Forgotten Lives. 91 notice. In a word, he is blind to the suffering, deaf to the cry of pain bursting at last articulately from the lips of half the human race." A rustle at the door broke upon Barbara's soliloquy, and she looked up to see her new friend approaching with a lady on his arm. The lady was not Mrs. Dale. She was beautiful and fair as a lily, her hair was golden, her eyes dark and sad, her figure very slender, her whole air sorrowful, yet proud. Barbara observed that her hand scarcely touched the arm on which it rested, and her face was turned away. "I could not find Mrs. Dale, but my wife will be very happy to take care of you till you are well enough to look for your friends. Lady Theresa Bosperis, Miss " " Lethbridge," said Barbara, instantly answering the demand in his eyes, while her heart bounded against her side, and lights and figures grew dark to her sight ; yet in her dimness she saw spring into his eyes, as she spoke, an expression that haunted her — haggard fear, amazement, pain, grief — what was it ? Then he turned abruptly away, and drew^ back the curtain, 92 Forgotten Lives, and set the door wide, and standing with his back to lier, he looked out upon the passing crowd with a scared smile on his paling lips. Meanwhile Barbara was conscious that her face was one crimson blush, and Lady Theresa was looking at her with wild eyes, and cheeks white as snow. CHAPTEE V. AEBAEA was the first to recover lier self-possession. She even felt some scorn at her own weakness, and asked herself piteously why the sight of Oliver's sister should make her heart throb with so much pain. " Thank you very much for coming to my rescue/' she said quietly ; "I felt very awkward at the thought of returning to the ball-room alone." A faint colour was creeping slowly back to Lady Theresa's lily face, but her eyes were full still of mingled terror and pain. " Excuse me," she said in a faint voice ; " I fear I am not well. I must speak to my husband." She rose, went to the door, and touched him on the shoulder with her fan. For a moment he took no notice, then he turned on her a face hard and cold as stone, with a gleam in the eyes which made the heart 94 Forgotten Lives. quiver, so terrible was the rage or agony burning in this silent fire. involuntarily Lady Theresa shrank back against the silken curtain, and clutched it with one hand. " What is the meaning of this ?" she said, very low. " The meaning of what ?'^ he answered. " All our bitter lives, or some particular malice or madness in them? Speak plainly." "Neither. You know what I mean. Who is this Miss Lethbridge?" " Upon my word I have not the least idea. Ask her if you want to know." He faced the crowd again, and smiled and bowed as an acquaintance passed. " You introduced me to her. I ask you." "You ask in vain then, for I don't know." Lady Theresa bit her lip, and her face grew white again. " Ernest," she said, and her voice trembled, " you cannot think I want to make this a subject of quarrel" "Not at all," returned her husband care- lessly. " I am quite aware you never think it worth your while to quarrel with me — nor I with you," he added, after a moment's Forgotten Lives. 95 pause. *' I am willing always to copy 3'our exquisite politeness if j^ou wdll allow me." "Is this a place ?" began Lady Theresa. "In which to show rudeness to a young lady ? Certainly not. Go back to her, take her to her friends, and drop her then and there, if you don't wish to know her." The sneer upon his lip was bitter, and taking a fresh pair of gloves from his pocket, he put one on leisurely, never changing the hard contemptuous look upon his face. When Lady Theresa spoke again her voice quivered, either wdth emotion or anger. " You mistake me wilfully, Mr. Bosperis." " Indeed ! I have mistaken you alh your life perhaps." She put these words aside, and spoke pas- sionately and fast, but still in a very low tone. " I must and will have an answer, Ernest. More than three weeks ago you forbade me — almost furiously — to make the acquain- tance of the Miss Lethbridge whose ad- dress Oliver sent me. Who, then, is this young lady ? What other Lethbridge is she ? — is it the one ? — my Grod ! is it ?'' 96 Forgotten Lives. The left glove was on bis hand, the right one fell to the floor ; he stooped and picked it np, and as he lifted it his face was dark with rage and pain. " Still mad on that point, I perceive," he said slowly. "She cannot be a creature that never existed. There are plenty of Lethbridges, I presume, in the world." He had kept his self-control, but the pas- sion in him shook hand and lips, and not daring to let his trembling fingers essay the other glove, he thrust it hastily in his pocket. Lady Theresa looked at him in a vague, bewildered way ; then she retraced her steps towards the spot where Barbara was seated, while her husband's eyes followed her, full of angry pain. Barbara rose as she approached with a certain shyness and wounded feeling which she could not quite repress. She felt sure the short, sharp colloquy between husband and wife had some reference to herself, and pride and love being both hurt within her, she resolved to let Lady Theresa understand that she had no need of her friendship. " I am sorry to be the cause of trouble to you. Lady Theresa," she said in cold, quiet tones. Forgotten Lives. 97 "Trouble!— you? Oli no, Miss Letli- bridge, it is not 3^our fault if ^^our name brings thoughts of trouble to me." " My nam.e ?" repeated Barbara. " When you wrote to me you said nothing of my father being connected with any grief of yours. But as a physician I can understand that he well might be." "Are you Dr. Lethbridge's daughter?" cried Lady Theresa, the whole expression of her face changing to a happier, brighter look. "Yes; and I thank you very much for the kind letter you sent me through Mr. De Beauvoir." There was amazement in Lady Theresa's eyes as she glanced from Barbara to her hus- band ; then she held out her hand cordially, and yet with a sort of nervousness, as if she feared to be as kind as she wished to be. " I am glad indeed to meet you," she said, " and sorry that I have been unable — I mean sorry that my letter seemed to pro- mise more " " She wishes to check my presumption," thought the girl ; " she intends to show me that Oliver de Beauvoir is of finer clay than the poor St. Cecilian, whose moulding was VOL. II. 7 98 ForgoUe7i Lives. tempered with sucli bitter tears. Well, I am prouder than she is !" And stilUng the passionate beating of her angry heart, she forced herself to speak with quiet dignity. " I believe," she said, " you were good enough to ask in your letter if you could be of any service to me ? I think not. I in- tend soon to quit England for America." She spoke with a clear enunciation which made every word fall distinctly on the ear ; and Mr. Bosperis, though leaning with ap- parent carelessness at the door, had been a sharp listener. He came suddenly forward now, and joined in this dialogue abruptly. " So you accompany your friends across the Atlantic, and soon?" ''• Yes, in about a month," said Barbara. '•' What a happiness for you !" he returned, with a sudden laugh. " You escape Europe, with all its luxuries, its miseries, and its sins, and you go to a new world, with a fresh heart and a clear conscience. I envy you. Miss Lethbridge." " No man yet ever really envied a woman," said Barbara ; " and I believe you would find it a great misfortune to quit Europe." "You are risrht ; it is old and worn out. Forgotten Lives. 99 like myself; it suits me. Miss Letlibridge, I perceive you like the truth. I am going, therefore, to confess my delinquencies. I hate all Americans, from North to South, and I would not let my wife make your acquaintance because you were surrounded by Georgians, Virginians, and Utopians. I declared you certainly spoke through the nose, and called slavery an institution. I now rescind all my old ideas and old opinions. The Americans are a delightful people, and Miss Letlibridge herself will be as charming on the eastern side of the Atlantic as she is on the western. Will you accept this late apology ?" he added with a curious and sud- den embarrassment of manner, " and permit Lady Theresa to be your friend?" ^ What had changed him ? Why was he anxious now that Barbara should be her friend ? Lady Theresa pondered over this and held her peace ; but her frank sweet smile, and the cordial pressure of her hand, did much to lift the shadow from Barbara's spirit. As their hands met Mr. Bosperis regarded them both with an odd smile — a smile through which there broke a revealing of pain, and bitterness, and fear. Barbara looked up and caught this smile, then a 100 Forgotten Lives. sudden paleness flashed white on his face, and he turned away abruptly, and opening the window passed out into the balcony. From thence in a moment his voice reached them, a little sharp and uncertain in its tone — "Theresa, I will go through the garden and order the carriage. You had better take Miss Lethbridge home. I will walk my- self." The echo of his step went ringing down the stone stairs, then Lady Theresa, with a happy smile in her eyes, turned to Barbara. " How glad I am he wishes us to be friends !" she said. But Barbara felt a strange tightening of the heart, and longed to be far away to escape from some sorrow — she knew not what — whose chill foreboding fell between her and Oliver's sister. CHAPTER YI. '^'T was veiy dull at Blois for Rose — very dull in the long schoolroom, where rows of girls with bent heads and inky fingers pored over tattered books — duller still in the flat, straight garden, where girls walked up and down in the broad sunshine, chattering or mumbling lessons to themselves, some with arms in- terlaced, airing ostentatiously their mighty friendships, others with equal openness dis- playing their little hates and enmities — dullest of all in i\\Q pavilion when monsieur lectured on caterpillars, and grubs, and mummy moths, and there was no Oliver to put life and interest into their dead, dismal bodies. Yes, here in the pavilion^ which used to be so bright with his pre- sence. Rose most missed that excitement, and felt her life dull, flat, and unprofitable. Then the blazing skylight seemed a furnace, the hot floor an oven, the narrow space a 102 Forgotten Lives. purgatory in which her small soul sat baking, fuming, conspiring and coveting. Barbara's letters made her cry. Barbara was going to balls and parties, and seeing sights, and having new dresses of the latest fashion. Doubtless, too, she had admirers, though she v/as too sly to say so, and per- haps even she had reached to the glory of being engaged, and would triumph soon in a rich marriage. All these childish, small, mean things Rose thought of Barbara, and gnashed her little white teeth over them. One gleam of comfort flashed spitefully into her eyes when she remembered Oliver was far away. Oliver was not by Barbara's side, doubling her enjoyments in Paris, and rejoicing her vanity by his attentions. It was a wonderfully little, distorted, ugly picture which Rose drew mentally of Bar- bara ; but a crooked mirror can do no more, and the small, muddy lake when it reflects the mountain gives back only a black image of its beauty. Amid all her little worries, and envyings, and spites, there was no room for a generous thought; she could not dieam that her lie had marred Barbara's life, or drifted Oliver away from a safe haven, and Eung him back into evil currents Forgottc)} Lives. 103 from which he had escaped for a time. She was o^lad he could forijet Barbara, and she did not care whether Barbara remembered him or no. She always thought of her as being quite happy, too happy, and it was certainly consoling to feel there v/as one thing lacking to her perfect contentment, and that a thing of which her hand^ her adroit tongue, had deprived her. The end of all her reveries came to this — • " At least she has not Oliver with her ; she cannot flirt with him or deceive him any more, when she means all the time to marry her cousin. I did right to tell him." Eose liked to cheat herself in saying this. It is always pleasant to be self-righteous, and suppose that in gratifying spite or jealousy one is doing quite a noble thing. Karrow minds never recognise the evil they have done, or see the good they might have done. Unlike David, ''' The overflowings of ungodliness do" {not) " make them afraid." After Barbara's departure, madame, with an eye to business, looked about her for a new pupil, and found her in the shape of a little, quiet girl, not quite clean, who was daughter to the town sweep — not a common sweep, of course, but one who contracted 104 Forgotten Lives. for wholesale sweepings, and who, never- theless, looked with a master's eye alter his soot-bags, his chimneys, and his black slaves, and hence brought at times the shakings of his trade into the presence of wife and daughter. Little Valerie, therefore, had a soiipqon of soot about her when she took her place among the genteel and unexceptional petti- coats of the boarders, and roused a rustling indignation and shrinking among them which did not escape madame's eye. She knew better than to hurt susceptibilities; she gave Valerie the unwonted luxury of a bath, and passed all the articles of her toilette through fire and water. Vainly; the child smelled of soot, and its subtle aroma around her defied the elements. In fine, the girls' noses, when they smelled ungentility, were turned up to too great an extent for madame's hand to put down, and Valerie was sent to Coventry. Madame was puzzled. One day she sat in her beehive chair in the garden, her fingers busy with knitting, her eyes watchful of her flock. The usual friendships and enmities passed up and down before her, and she let them {^o by Forgotten Lives, 105 witliout a word, knowing one would scarcely exist witliout the otlier. For tlie true use of a friend is to listen when we abuse a foe, and add a judicious sprinkling of pepper when our heat is failing. So madame's eyes only smiled as she caught a word or two of girlish chat, and her gaze passed the crowd by to rest on Valerie standing alone among the rows of cabbages with the forlornest aspect over all her little figure. Madame beckoned the child to her, and she came eagerly, and stood flushed by the beehive chair. "Valerie, why do you not walk in the path? Are you fond of caterpillars, that you get among the cabbages?" "Madame sees there i:? no room in the path for me." Madame sees there is plenty of room, nevertheless she does not contradict the assertion ; she goes on knitting, then in a moment says quietly — " Eest tranquil, child : I'll find thee a friend." Tears spring to Valerie's eyes. " Oh ! if madame would but take me out of the dortoir'' 106 Forgotten Lives. " Why ? what is the matter there?" "They don't speak to me, madame. They give me a big piece of the room all to myself; they wont touch my dress- ing-table or washstand ; and they laugh when I take my rosary, and w^hisper to- gether that purgatory must be a grand place for soot, and I shall enjoy it so much that I'm a simpleton to say my prayers, for I shall never want to come out of it." Does madame smile, or is it only a little grimace of the lips as she clicks her knit- ting-needles together tightly ? At all events, she answers with severe gravity — " In m.j pension I v\^ili permit no scoffing at religion. Wlio is the worst ? who is the leader among them ?" " Mademoiselle Valdelapins, madame." Mademoiselle Valdelapins is Fatima. As a rule, girls don't bully each other at school as boys often do, and as a rule, too, if they are bullied they tell of it. They do not consider it a point of honour to conceal the cruelty and cowardice of a bullj^ And I doubt if many a small boy in England really holds such a code. He would com- plain if he could get redress ; he is silent from expediency, knowing the masters wink Forgotten Lives. 107 at such things, and his last state would be worse than the first if he dared lift up a feeble voice against a tyrant. I will not presume to say how French boys act under bullying ; my pen makes no sally into unknown regions ; it deals only with things feminine and known to itself. " Ah !" madam e says quietly. '' Well, Valerie, I'll find a remedy for it all. Now sit down here, and hold this skein of wool while I wind it." Thus honoured, Valerie brightens up, and her poor little pinched, distressed face grows smiling again. '' Shall I tell you a story while I wind ?" says madam e in a clear voice. She is a great raconieiise — an impro visa- trice of power amounting to genius, and it is the very greatest favour a girl can receive to be told a story by madame. The crowd gradually stops and listens as her fine rich tones steal upon the ear — stops at first in wonder, and with a sneer that Valerie is so honoured, but stands at length entranced as wit and pathos, dialogue and repartee, fall sparkling from the speaker's lips, in a voice whose modulations express in music every passion pf the heart. lOS Forgotten Lives. It is the old story of Cinderella that she tells, but what a tale she makes it ! What invention, and fancy, and wit she wastes npon these young school-girls ; what poetry and pathos she pours out, as her spirit kindles with its own fire, and her eyes darken and glow, or fill with tears, respon- sive to the soul that moves them ! What a picture she draws of the little desolate maiden, oppressed and hated, used as a slave, maltreated and despised ! The girls shrink and flush when Cinderella, pale and trembling, ragged and beaten, creeps to the chimney corner, and kneels down in dirt and darkness to weep and pray. A sister steals upon her doleful solitude — a fair white sister, without a speck upon her satin dress, without a speck upon her satin skin, and her voice rings sneeringly upon the ears of the weeping child. *' Cendrillon ! what are you doing there ? Praying, are you ! Simpleton ! what need is there for you to pray? Purgatory is a grand place for soot; you'll enjoy it im- mensely, you'll never want to leave it. Soot in plenty for you there, Cendrillon. Ha ! ha 1 ha ! soot in plenty." Valerie looks up with wonder-wide eyes. For (/off en Lives. 109 the wools all tangled in her lap, and Fatima hides behind a tree ; and madame, though she sees them both, stays not the torrent of her words an instant. She is merciless from this moment to the sisters ; her scorn tears them all to pieces, and holds up their ladylike shreds to every wind of ridicule. Their petty malice, their meanness, their pride, their poor conceit of being better than the sister who works for them, all this she breathes upon with righteous indigna- tion, and fans the fire of her wrath till every evil thing shrinks and shrivels in the blaze of her anger. How small, how con- temptible, how infinitely mean and little the sisters seem, as her words, like a sword, divide flesh and marrow, baring their cold, narrow hearts to her gaze of scorn ! Behind the tree Fatima rages and bites her lips, and little Valerie is sobbing audibly. Then madame drops her voice to sweet- ness, and Cendrillon prays for her perse- cutors, the gentlest, Immblest, meekest prayer, full of love and pardon, and rises from her knees to work for them, to give them the skill of her helpful hands, as 110 Forgotten Lives. she arrays them for pleasures in which she must never share. The sisters depart brimful of vanity and gaiety. Then a time of bitterness falls upon their slave, and she sits down in her squalor and weeps. She too has yearnings towards earthly happiness — she too has a young fresh heart longing for love — she too feels her spirit leap up at the sound of music, and her blood rebounds as theirs to laughter and song. Was the world made only for them, has she no share in it but these rags, these cinders and dirt, this constant toil and pain, this scorn of the rich and contempt of the thouo^htless ? Ah me ! Grod has for- gotten her, and the derision of the proud bows down her neck always. Madame alters her theme here. No fairy comes to help Iter Cendrillon, no prince steps in to glorify her, no bright unlooked-for joy shines upon her life, and yet she is not forsaken. Duty is sublime, goodness is god- like, and its rewards lie far away from human ken, among the everlasting heights, to which earthly covetings can never attain. The improvisafcrice swells into the pro- phetess, and her spiritual vision soars from the wildernesses of the world to the plains of Forgotten Lives. Ill heaven. In the hrst, success, and honour, and wealth, are the tests of earthly glory ; he that has them shall he crowned, and wear a golden visible rohe on his rags of unrighteousness ; in the last, the soul comes meekly before the throne clothed only in the goodness that God gave. Out into the hard work-day world the preacher carried, her young hearers, and showed them how the Cendrillons of the earth toiled unrequited in misery, in pain, in poverty, and yet before Grod their garments were always white, and they were passing in every trial from glory to glory. She showed them that no human creature was " common or unclean," but the rich and the refined were the sisters of the poor and the ignorant, and if those- lived carelessly and at ease while these suffered and wept, then the earth would one day quake beneath their feet, their habitations would fail, and nothing be left them but their naked, shivering souls, shrinking, self- condemned, from the light into the depths of despair and darkness. The great army of slaves who did the world's work, who bore frost and heat, grime and misery — the army with the hard hands, the stammering tongue, the un- 112 Forr/otte)} Lives. learned brain, and hearts filled with a grow- ing, gnawing sense of wrong, were beginning to feel their strength, their ranks were mustering, their sword was calling to them from its scabbard. God only knew what things were coming upon the earth. Let us save the children — - the little children, and not set them to hate each other, but to know and remember that both rich and poor are one before the throne, and " their angels do always behold the face of their Father in Heaven." '' Take heed, therefore, that ye despise not one of these little ones." The sermon is over, the crowds disperse, all but Fatima, who slinks still behind the trees, and Valerie, whose small flushed face is full of awe, and whose heart has grown so big that it holds all her enemies, and loves them. Madame has more than kept her word ; she has found, not one friend for the little Cinderella, but many, for Valerie herself now will gather them to her by being the handiest, helpfullest, and kindest little maiden in all the school. Eose has felt simply amused and guilt- less. The sermon was preached to sinners, not to her. She takes the trouble to pursue Forgotten Lives. 113 Fatima among the trees, and gives her to understand that the whole school has singled her out as the chief delinquent. " You don't seem to like being preached at," she says with a little laugh. " You look so uncomfortable, one would think you were the eldest and spitefuUest sister." " Not the spitefuUest," returns Fatima blandly, " nor the one most disappointed at the loss of the Prince. Cinderella, Valerie, Barbara make but one text. Oh, madame is very clever ! She knows how to ' point a moral and adorn a tale.' " This quotation Fatima, of course, gives in English, with a little air of triumph inde- scribable. " A cat's tail or the tale, of a ^cat ?" responds Eose in the same tongue, with a play of words puzzling to the French girl. " Let us make a distinction, mademoiselle. I believe it was the latter, but I appeal to you as being necessarily more learned in cats' tales than myself." Now this foolish pun was in reality a cruel sting, inasmuch as poor Fatima's nick- name was the White Cafc, and she knew it, and knew, too, that wicked tongues had declared there was this difference between VOL. II. 8 114 Forgotten Lives. her and the cat of the stoiy — the fairy prince had only cut off her tail and left her head standing. Fatima for the moment is quite anni- hilated ; answers don't come quickly to her in English, and Eose rushes onwards vic- torious. " At all events, mademoiselle, I. am glad you have given up one old propensity — you don't prowl now as you used to do. Or if you continue this feline habit, at least you don't make my room your hunting-ground, and that I confess is satisfactory." This shows of what use sermons are to some natures : they turn the whole stream of the preacher's eloquence against their neighbours and pass on scathless. '' A satisfliction of which, doubtless, you know how to make good use, mademoiselle, for your secrets and your clandestine corre- spondence!" the emphasis and the force of that bit of French as Fatima' s tongue runs back glibly to her own language, with upper lip a little raised and face gleaming very white among the shadows of green leaves. " That's just like you French !" retorts Eose contemptuously. " A girl can't write Forgotten Lives. 115 to her own mother that you don't imme- diately conclude she is intriguing. But I am not surprised. We all know that spying and lying are two French virtues." The quarrel lias grown to be a national one. France and England are arrayed against each other now. '' And we all know the English are greedy, and cruel, and stupid. They starve their poor, and beat their wives, and flog their soldiers. And as for their women, bah ! they deserve beating, they are so betes. Who but an Englishwoman w^ould let her- self be beaten and robbed, and sold like a cow in a market?" " That's not true," breaks in Eose. " Will you tell me it is not true when I have read it in your English journal myself? And as for secrets," continues Fatima, going back to personal matters sharply, "I say you have plenty ; and you talked of them to the Englishman, and agreed to meet him at the chapel at five o'clock. I heard you, jjetite intrif/ante ! And I'll tell of you too." So it is open war, and Eose grows frightened at the battle she has raised. " You heard wrong," she says hurriedly ; S— 2 116 Forgotten Lives. " you don't understand Englisli sufficiently well to comprehend " " You are not dealing with Madame Dalle/' interrupts Fatima scornfully. " You can't turn my ears into the ears of an ass, as you did hers." ''Petite chatte, I despise you !" retorts Eose boldly. " And if you carry any of your tales to madame, I shall tell her it's a cat's tale, and she wont believe you. Voila ! J'aifini ; cest mon dernier mot!' This speech was a mixture of French and English as transcribed, for Eose knew she was strongest in her own tongue, so she had recourse to it not to be outdone by her antagonist. " BU Men, mademoiselle, what make you there to quarrel?" cries a sudden voice. " Yat is de matere ?" Sly, sleek, white Fatima is the quickest to regain her self-possession. " Oh, it is nothing, monsieur ! It is only a little dispute between Mademoiselle Car- teret and me about England and France." " You will not destroy the entente cordiale between the two countries, I hope^ my good children. What is the cause ?" Forc/oiten Lives. 117 " Schools," said Rose demurel}', " and wives." '' All ! school and wife ! France has both, England has sham and slave. No school for women, no wives for men. I know de English lady-school. One poor dowdy — veuve QIC vieille file — wisout money, wisout brain — ignorante, mon Dieu ! keep school to live, and take two, tree oder dowdy more poor, more ignorante, than elle-menie, and call dem teachers — ha ! ha ! ha ! — teachers ! Is it not true. Miss Eose?" Eose thinks of St. Cecilia's, w^hich had not even, the two or three dowdies, but left the ignorant girls to teach each other ; so she assents with a half-sigh and a .short word. " It is not pleasant to say yes of bad things in one's country," says monsieur, going back to French. "But what will you ? England cares nothing for its women — provides nothing for them — lets them live or die as they can. We in France do not permit a woman to keep a first-class school unless she has passed an examination v/orthy of a lirst-class certificate. It pays her to 118 Forgotten Lives. work hard to get one. In England neither examination nor certificate is required.* Any ill-educated woman — and, mon Bieu ! they are all ill-educated — can keep a school, and waste the lives of her pupils to sustain her own. That is the English system. It makes plenty of dowdies to set up school one day, but it does not make helpful wives and good mothers. Where in England shall you find such a school as this ?" con- tinues monsieur, rising as high as he can on his little heels, " and such a woman as madame ? You heard her just now — j^ou saw her power ? Yes, she is a poetess and an accountant, a painter and a cook, a lin- guist and a dressmaker, a philosopher and a housewife — in a word, she is one of the cleverest of clever French worn en. Ah! par- don me, I grow enthusiastic when I praise my wife." And with shining eyes the kindly little lizard passed them and went on to his moths. * Not for private schools. CHAPTEE YII. ADEMOISELLE VALDELAPINS was the richest girl in the school. Her father and mother — husband and wife, were partners — possessed an iron foundry which brought in fabulous profits, tlie glories of which were as good as fairy tales, and more substantial. Moreover, Fatima was an only daughter, which made her a sort of princess royal at home. True, she had two big brothers, but they were rather wild, and spent a good deal of the foundry money, mostly their mother's. So the daughter had her father's love, and the sons had their mother's tears, besides her profits in the business. To visit Fatima, Monsieur Valdelapins thrice every year left his resounding premises, his army of work- men, and all his responsibilities in the skilful hands of his sole partner — the wife who foi twenty-three years had sat in the same office with him,, worked at the same ledgers, and 120 For(joUen Lives. mastered every detail of the business in wliich their mutual fortunes lay. We have no such wives as this in England, for the simple reason that we have no such husbands. The Englishman pockets his wife's fortune by the lav/ which confis- cates it to his use, and treats her all his life as a grown-up child, more or less agreeable to him, more or less coerced or petted, accord- ing to his sovereign pleasure. As a rule, the Englishwoman's wits dwindle after mar* riage, because she has such small use for them. Accomplishments are given up, and no more solid intellectual pursuits take their place, neither does the knowledge of business come to her, for she learns nothing of her husband's profession, and is not expected to learn it, for he never takes her with him to ofSce or to factory. So at last, when the man dies, she is left a pitiful, aged child, weak and simple, a prey if she is rich, a helpless sufferer if she is poor. What can she do except sink into misery and perish, or linger on through a dwindled existence of privation and loneliness, on some small pittance or pension which she counts herself fortunate in possessing, though it brings her but dry bread ? She was never her For got tan Lives. 121 husband's partner, like the French wife, so when he goes all goes, and home and family are tumbled into a heap of confusion, and poverty, and dismay. In no country of Europe are there so many poverty-stricken, helpless, unskilful, uncared-for women as in this great England. The reason is obvious. Men legislate selfishly, regarding all questions from only a masculine view, hence they have fallen into cruel blunders, not perceiving that " The woman questiou is the man's," and injury to one is hurtful to the other. Gradually, as petty wars have ceased, all remunerative employment, all professions, all endowments and endowed schools, all occupations excejDt ill-paid drudgery, fall into the grasp of man, and woman, left far behind, cries out piteously only for the crumbs that fall from his overladen table. If she ask for more, let her be stoned and pelted as at Edinburgh, or sneered at and rebuffed as in London. And meanwhile our legislature keeps up to the old mark of self- ishness and prejudice by passing new laws for mothers, and wives, and daughters only 122 Forc/otten Lives. a little less singularly unjust than tlie old ones. Mothers are still counted under the law " strangers to their children/' not parents — not natural guardians ; wives are still stripped of property, and reckoned as idiots unable to sue or be sued ; daughters are still uneducated, unskilled in hand and brain, unfit to earn themselves a morsel of honest bread. So a girl must go husband-hunting, or perish in a madhouse a poor governess with reason broken down by anxiety, or die in some wretched lodging in neglected lone- liness, where her last agony shall be told in a line in a newspaper. And all this evil must and will continue to exist until the interests of women are represented in Parlia- ment. The unrepresented have no friends, their needs and then- miseries are ignored or unknown. It is nobody's business to find them out or study them, because it pays nobody to do it. When women have votes aspiring members will think it worth their while to inquire into the justice of their demands, and ascertain the needs of their position, and seek for a remedy where there is a wrong. At present, as a rule, the British Parliament knows little of the laws Forgotten Lives. 123 affecting women, and cares less. It hates dealing with social questions. It wants to many its wife's sister, but otherwise it would be glad to let woman and her <n'ievances alone. The whole thins^ is a sore and a bore. This is Saxondom ; it bores itself easilj^ and but for the Celtic leaven which mingles lightly with the heavy Parliamentary lump, there is no reckoning up the amount of weariness which honourable members might make each other suffer. It is hard when woman comes and adds her mite to all this boredom. Let us get back to Fatima. Monsieur and madam e are talking of her as they sip their small cups of Mocha together in a rare tete-a-tete. *' I must remove her from Valerie's room," says madame. " I cannot let her persecute the child. Bat how shall I do it without giving offence ? Her father will be here next week ; she might make a grievance of it to him." "What has she been telling you about that little Ensrlish Eose ?" returns mon- sieur. " Mon cher, what has that to do with it ? 124 Forr/otten Lives. She has been telling me some nonsense respecting the Englishman who had, we thought, a little tendresse for Barbara." '' So he had ; and that shining little ser- pent, with flower face and silvery tongue, has poisoned his heart against her. I am sorry for it. The poor child is an orphan, and her dowry is small ; she ought to marry young. . I was helping her. Yes, I am vexed she has lost the rich Ensf-lishman. I come back to my question : what does the Yaldelapins say about it ?" "Oh, something impossible? That Rose agreed to a clandestine meeting with him in the English chapel. Eolly ! the English keep their chapels locked "up." " Quite true, my dear ; their priests think it useless to pray in them except on Sun- days, when they are paid for it. Their D'leu has nothing to do with the days of the week — it is only Sundays belong to Him. But it is not folly to believe there is some secret understanding between Eose and the Englishman — not a meeting, the man is gone, but some other thing connected with Barbara. Now I return to your dilemma. Eemove Mademoiselle Valdelapins to the Forgotten Lives. 125 same room with Eose, and she will be delighted, not angry." Madame's lips break into a smile at this suggestion. " She would be more than delighted, she would be positively fjrateful. She would defend Valerie for such a boon. She has long been so curious about Eose, that she has even walked in her sleep into her room in the dead of night." This fact had not escaped madame's alert senses, and she shragged her shoulders a little scornfully as she told it. The lizard was amused ; his eyes kindled. " She grows interesting," he said. " What could she have been in Egypt ? Or stay, she is fat and white ; she began h^r life, perhaps, in Scandinavia. What was she, I wonder ?" Madame regarded her eccentric husband for a moment with wistful eyes, as a mother might some weakly child, whom she knew unfit to battle with the world ; then she spoke with a tender smile, and a little quiet humour lurking on her lips. " I don't know what she was, Achille, neither do you, but I can tell you that 126 Forgotten Lives. the girls nickname her ' the White "Ah!'' cried the little man, jumping up from his chair, '' that is it ! Exactly ! she loas a cat ! Yes, and that accounts for what I overheard the English Rose say : she accused her of proiDling when I came upon them quarrelling beneatli the trees." "They hate each other," said madame. " A nice couple to put together in the same room ! " Make them friends," returned monsieur, with a laugh in his eyes, "and the soft White Cat will discover what poison the pretty viper has put into the Englishman's veins. Then I'll get an antidote for him, clihe amie. I like the good to triumph ; they always do in books. I'll make my favourite Barbara's life like a book." Now there was something in this scheme not uncongenial to madame's spirit as a Frenchwoman. Spying is an honourable occupation to mothers and governesses, and madame was too wise to despise it altogether. Young people have to be managed ; a demonstrative and too blunt frankness frightens them and crushes back their con- fidence into silence : there is a coarseness in Forgotten Lives. 127 it from which tlie young heart shrinks. It abhors outspoken honesty at times, aiid yet it would not unwillingly be read with silence. So the Jesuit with soft hand sometimes saves the child from the precipice or the swollen river, while the loud rough cry of honest warning only hastens the catastrophe. Who could tell what calamity Eose was preparing for herself, or what injury she had done unwittingly to Barbara ? Fatima had many of the qualities of the Jesuit. She would prove a clever spy. Why not make use of her cunning to counteract evil and bring good out of it ? Thus madame argued the matter to her- self like a Catholic, and consented to the plan. " But I am afraid Eose Carteret will be very angry at first," she said. " She pays to have a room to herself, and has never had any girl with her but Barbara, whom she asked to be her companion." " She wont be angry long," returns mon- sieur ; '' cats are soft, caressing creatures." "My dear Achille," expostulates ma- dame, " let me entreat you to cease calling my poor pupils bad names. What would parents think if they heard you ?" 128 Forgotten Lives, ''They wont hear me, Estelle. And I call no bad names. I shuply say what they were in Egypt, in Chaldea, in Persia, when they first sprang into being from a mixture of sun, and air, and dust — much dust in some — or let us say mud, perhaps." " You arc incorrigible, Achille," replies madame. " At all events, then, cease to call poor Eose a viper. It is cruel. The child is pretty as a flower, and beyond a little selfishness I see no harm in her." " Ah, ma chere Estelle, you have not lizard's eyes." And here the dialogue stopped, for, hke a wise wife, she gave him the last word. CHAPTER VIII. N Eose Carteret's chamber are two alcoves from which depend snow- '^^ white curtains, lined with pink. Beliind these, hidden quite away from sight, are two dainty beds sweet to think of, downy, soft, gloriously comfortable. The curtains in one alcove are looped back, dis- playing the nest within; before the other the white folds fall softly, in perfect quietude, as they have ever rested since Barbara went away. Eose sits by her open desk reading a letter, a vexed fire in her eyes, a flush on her cheeks, her brow resting on one little clenched hand. The letter is from Barbara, and as she reads Eose weeps for spite and pain, and her small hard heart grows so full of jealousy that she would like the whole world to burst like a spent bubble, and go angrily out of the sunlight for ever. Still, when one is young, it is hard to be unhappy VOL. II. 9 130 Forgotten Lives. long ; the sun persists in shining, and the eartli looks green even through foolish tears, and hope and vanity are great consolers. So Eose, looking up in the midst of her weeping, meets her own eyes in the great mirror opposite, and sees them' flash into a smile. It is pleasant to be so fair, so wondrous fair, that even tears give a new charm, and sorrow only adds a grace to the small lithe figure leaning forward discon- solately on its bare white arms. l^ose throws the letter down, and walks to the mirror to take a nearer view of the pretty image, which even in this dark chamber looks so bright and beautiful. She stands before the glass, she turns her head to see her shapely shoulders, she atti- tudinizes with rounded arms above her head, she dances and sings, and lastly she pulls ribbons and pins from her hair, and lets it fall its whole luxuriant length, bright as amber, soft as silk, till it covers neck and arms in a shining shower of gold. Parting this shower with two small hands, she sets her face free, like a peeping rose, and peers into the glass quite gravely, saying aloud — *' Am I beautiful ? Yes, very beautiful. Why should I be afraid ?" Forgotten Lives. 131 A smothered giggle, a little squeak which stifles itself instantly, answers this query, and rustles the hair on Rose Carteret's head with terror. She turns instantly, her face blanching with fear, her eyes fixed and staring, and she sees the curtain in the empty alcove shaking to and fro by some invisible and mysterious means. " Who is there ? What is it ?" she cries in a tone of anguish. " It's only me, Blanche Yaldelapins," re- plies a tittering voice. Then the curtain is set aside by a plump white hand, disclosing Fatima ! — Fatima smiling from ear to ear, her eyes dancing in her head for fun. She has odd eyes has Fatima, eyes not without humour, not dis- agreeable, to beholders, sly though they may be ; now they seem so full, so intensely full of appreciation for all the absurdity of the scene — of satisfaction for her own triumph and share in it — that Eose remains dumb in utter confusion and dismay. " What are you doing here ?" she cries at last. " I never expected to be here," says Fatima demurely, trying to keep grave. But the attempt was beyond her power ; 9—2 132 For (gotten Lives. one glance at Rose Carteret's face, and all her risible muscles expanded into play. "'Am I beautiful?'" she said, mimicking Eose exactly. "'Yes, very beautiful !' del! it is too mucli ! Oh ! what a story to tell the girls !" And falling back on her pillow, Fatima rolled in her bed with inextinguishable laughter. "Now I am in that cat's powder," said Eose to herself, " and she can mimic and ridicule me to all the school if she likes ; and she will, too, unless I bribe her and make friends." " I am glad you are amused," she said aloud, trying to join in the laugh. " Un- deniably I am good-looking, and I am not ashamed of it, though you are welcome to laugh at the fact if you please." '• Laugh 1" repeated Fatima, wiping her eyes. " How can I help it ? And wont the girls laugh to-morrow when I tell them the story, and shov/ them how you danced before the glass, and held your head this way and that way ? Oh ! what a comedy, what a farce, what a ballet all in one !" Eose was conquered, and she knew it. She was peculiarly sensitive to ridicule j it Forgotten Lives. 133 rasped her terribly. She could not face the girls if this grinning White Cat betrayed her. Yet she tried the last arrow left to her. " I think I asked what you were doing here, mademoiselle ? I pay to have a room to myself I shall complain to madame to- morrow, and have vou turned out. " " No you wont, because madame put me here herself." " And why, I should like to know ?" At this question Fatima put on one of her slyest looks, and shook her head, with pursed-up mouth and green lights dancing in her eyes. Eose felt the whole thing in- tolerable. The girl's white face and flaxen locks, her broad chin and wide mouth, pro- voked her as a scarecrow does a bird ; she felt inclined to pull her to pieces. She set her teeth hard and thought of it, then spoke civilly, giving her shoulders a French shrug. " You are placed here as a spy, I suppose. Well, after all, you can't help it." "No, I can't," said Fatima, putting on a conciliatory aspect. " At all events I hope you wont walk in your sleep." "I don't think I shall, because I'm awfully 134 'Forgotten Lives. wakeful. I can keep wide awake all night if I like." Eose bit lier lip, while Fatima, with the green lights growing greener than ever, watched her, saw the conflict in her mind, and the conviction come that she was beaten at ever}^ point, and mnst make peace on the best terms she could. Then the White Cat stretched out a soft velvet paw of friend- ship. " See here. Miss Carteret," she said; " why should we be enemies ?" " Oh, T don't want to be enemies," re- turned Eose quickly. " I'm sure I'd rather be friends." " Well, so you can be if you like,'' says Fatima, with great emphasis. Eose gave a little sigh. " And if you trust me you'll find me a true friend too." " How can I believe that when you are put here to watch me ?" " No, I'm not," returns Fatima, shaking her head. " Madame can't take me in in that way. The truth is she has put me here to bribe me to be kind to that little sweep Valerie. And it does bribe me too. I mean to be a guardian angel to her henceforth." " What can you mean ?" asks Eose. And Forgotten Lives. 135 she draws nearer the alcove, and finally sits down on the bed, within reach of the white velvet paw. '' I mean that niadame is a very clever woman. I was the head and chief of the insurgents against Cinderella, and she has bought me over, that's all." " No, that's not all," returns Eose. "You must have said something to her about me." " Well, yes ; on the day we quarrelled beneath the trees I told her I had over- heard you agree to meet the Englishman." " That was mean of you," says Eose softly, with her cheeks on fire, and a tingling in- clination in her arms to bundle the White Cat ignominiously from the room. "Mean! I know it. But I was ^ angry, and madame understood quite well what I meant. She knew I had been longing for a year to be your friend, and if I could not be a friend I made myself an enemy. I was obliged to be sometldng, don't you see?" Eose sees this, and sees, too, that sly, white Fatima must be her confidante now, unless she declares war and can afford to treat her as a spy and an enemy — a thing not to be thought of for a moment. " Tell me what madame said," she inter- 136 Forgotten Lives. poses eagerly. " That is the chief thing I want to know at present." " Madame pretended to be shocked. She knew you were an honourable, good girl, she said, and to make me sorry for my slander she should give me MissLethbridge's place in your room. I should have an opportunity of judging for myself then of the falseness of my own words. In a little while I should be as grieved for my ill-will to you as, doubtless, I was now for my un- kind conduct to Valerie." "The old Jesuit!" said Eose sharply. '' How did you answer her ?" " Exactly as she meant me to answer. I snapped instantly at the bribe. I declared I was shocked at my former cruelty to that little angel of a sweep, and I meant now to be her best friend. Upon this madame dismissed me graciously." " So it is a compact between you and madame," says Eose bitterly. " She sacrifices my comfort to wash a blackamoor white." " There'll be no sacrifice I hope. I'll never annoy you if I can help it," says Patima, with a soft pat on the hand she is caressing. " But how can I tell this is madame's , Forgotten Lives. 137 only meaning ?" continues Eose. " Per- haps she believed what you told her about Mr. De Beauvoir, and she intends to make a cat's-paw of you to find out more." " Now don't say anything about cats," returns Fatima coaxingly ; " it only reminds me of our quarrel. Madame cares nothing about Monsieur de Beauvoir, because — don't you see ? — he is gone to Norway ; he is a danger too far off to be feared. But she does care about Valerie and the peace of her school, and she cares likewise to please me. My father comes, you know, next week. Now do you see it all ?" " I see that madame has left me entirely out of all these calculations," responds Eose gloomily. ''She counts my objection for nothing." " She knew you would not object." And the green lights laugh again in Fatima's odd eyes. "Not object?" " No. In her own heart she knows per- fectly I told her truth about you and the Englishman, and she counts onjowv gratitude. The man being gone to the Noiih Pole, she means to make no inquiries and no fuss. In return for that you'll have to put up with 138 Forgotten Lives. the White Cat. The whole thing is a comedy. Let us embrace." " It is a Jesuitical plot/' said Eose, sub- mitting to be kissed languidly. "But it does not matter — 111 turn the tables on madame. I'll like you honestly, and be as happy as a bird." " Don't say a bird." "Why not?" " Because of cats. A bird would not be happy with me." The two girls laughed — an honest young laugh, and with real kindliness hand met hand again. " That ever I should find myself here !" cries Fatima exultingly ; " and your friend ! It's downright beautiful." Flattery was an incense Eose accepted willingly ; she took this as her due. " You are a cleverer girl than Barbara," she said gravely ; " I shall like you very much." To her mind Fatima had in truth a much wiser brain than Barbara, and her influence over Eose and her destiny was fated to be far more powerful. " I am beginning not to like Barbara," continued Eose, growing eager. " It was Forcjotten Lives. 139 her letter I was crying over — it vexed me so." Fatima's curiosity grows ogreisli ; she opens her white paw beseechingly, and her curious eyes look like green stars. Eose puts the letter in her hand. '' It's enough to take one's "breath away with envy," says Fatima, as she reads of dances, and dresses, and balls. " But she'll be quite faded and old by the time you and I are out, that's one comfort. What !" as she turns the page, " she has renounced America and le beau cousin, and she goes to Eome with Lady Theresa Bosperis ! Why, that is his sister, is it not ?" And, laying the letter down, Fatima twists her lips in an odd way she has, and lifts her eyelids over her green eyes in feigned dis- may. '' Yes, Lady Theresa is his sister," says Eose sulkily. " And what then ?" '' Why then, ma chere, the thing is done. When sisters begin to patronize a girl, a brother is as good as married." " But he is not with them," persisted Eose. " He stops in Norway." " For how long ?" asks the Valdelapins with provoking emphasis. 140 Forgotten Lives. "Oh, go on reading the letter," cries Eose impatiently, " and you'll see she has not given up the cousin, or if she has, he does not know it/' The White Cat smiled — one of her long, big smiles, which some called a grin. Not an ugly smile for all that, because there was so much enjoyment in it, so much apprecia- tion of her own sense, and humour, and cunning, that it excited sympathy by its very satisfaction. She understood, as by a flash, what Eose had done. She had lied to Oliver. " She praises her cousin very much," re- marks Fatima as she reads on, growing grave. " She has found out he is her good fairy. So it is his money has procured her all these grand things, and she thought it was her own. She'll be vexed at that, not grateful. He has done a stupid thing if he wants to marry her ; he should have let her feel her poverty. I did not know she was poor. Being so, she will not marry Mr. De Beauvoir." Eose Carteret's cheeks flush, her eyes glitter. " Do you really think so ?" she says in almost a whisper. " I am sure of it. She is too proud to For (/often Lives. 141 marry that man, and he is too selfish. She'll go to America, and he will propose to you, Eose." It is delightful to have a friend who says exactly the right thing. Eose is com- pletely won ; she kisses soft white Fatima gratefully. " But my chances are so small," she mur- murs in a quiver of impatience. "Not at all. You are rich, and your chateau is close to his sister's, and you have agreed to meet next summer. I heard you, and so I congratulate you, madame. Now I am sleepy. You shall tell me more to- morrow." This was the beginning of an odd friend- ship. 7^ * * * * The next week Monsieur Yaldelapins came to Blois. He was a bluff Fleming, a little coarse and loud, a great feeder, a great laugher, a big man altogether, who made his presence to be felt, increasing people's joys and miseries exceedingly, according to his mood and his opinion of them. Madame Dalle hated him ; he trampled her poor body into the earth every time he came to Blois. He spoke English, as a Fleming can, per- 142 Forgotten Lives, fectly; and he knew her to be a sham, and shook her to bits mentally m his big fist when he looked at her. This she knew, and trembled. Now and then a faint protest rose np in her mind against him. She was a lone woman getting her living ; what odds was it to him if her poor ears failed to understand a stonebreaking language ? Let him leave her alone. He was rich and strong, she was poor and weak. Then she would glance at him half in fear, half in anger, and meet a laugh in the roll of his blue Flemish eye. He did not mean to hurt her. His daughter had said — " Let her be, mon pere, she is such fun. She makes us girls laugh." And then, too, Blanche lost nothing by that failure in her ears. It was not English she had come to Blois to learn, but French. There were plenty of Englishmen in the great foundry at home, and their language was easy enough to pick up. French was harder to get at among a people whose Flemish tongues gave it so quaint a twist in speaking, that out of Flanders it was scarcely thought genteel. Now at Blois they say the purest French is spoken that France can boast of, so Blanche was sent thither to learn it, and Forgotten Lives. 143' catch the clear, sharp, iiuisical accent which is the rhythm of the place. These considera- tions of a selfish sort made Monsieur Yal- delapins refrain from entirely annihilating Madame Dalle ; he only rolled his eye at her in wicked fun, and doubled her up meta- phorically, and struck her dumb by long quotations in English. He was fond espe- cially of repeating " How the Water comes Down at Lodore," a poem which ran through Madame Dalle's nerves like creeping ferrets. When he began — " Here it comes sparkling, And there it lies darkling," she prepared herself by sitting bolt upright, with the fixed smile of a martyr on her countenance, but by the time his sonorous Flemish voice had reached — "And gleaming and streaming, and steaming and beam- ing, And rusliing and flushing, and brushing and gushing,'* she was quite limp, and the tears of torture were running down her large flat face. " It's so beautiful," she used to say apolo- getically, as she applied her handkerchief to her poor eyes ; " it afiects me so deeply." "It is perfectly horrible," Eose retorts- 144 Forfjotten Lives. with thrilling sarcasm, while Fatima laughs in a way which fills her father brimful of glee. Without the poor, the weak, and the ignorant to laugh at, this would be a dull world. The infirmities of a brother, but especially of a sister — as a more despised, weaker vessel not likely to retort — excite the risible faculties, and cause a good deal of fun, which human nature rather enjoys. Madame Dalle revenged herself at rare times by feeble imitations of Monsieur Vaidelapins' Flemish accent, but as this was done in her own room, when she was quite alone, it did not relieve her feelings much. It made just such a scanty stock of comfort as a pauper might live on, no more. How- ever, it saved her from being quite crushed. If ever a friend slaved to make another friend happy, Fatima did during the week of her father's stay at Blois. Wherever she went Eose went likewise. Excursions, con- certs, drives, /(?/^<9, she shared them all, and lastly, by her mother's permission, espe- cially telegraphed for, she accepted the big Fleming's kindly invitation to his chateau near Dunkerque. This was for the holi- days, the (jrande vacance fast approaching, Forgotten Lives. 145 the lonely dreariness of which Eose felt would be particularly cruel now Barbara was enjoying herself. This chateau was a wonderful structure of a gloomy and ghastly style of architec- ture, whose turrets and thick walls had an imposing effect on Eose, and" it was here that Blanche Yaldelapins probed all tlie secrets of her little soul. Here, in the long dark rooms where conquering Spaniards had built out the sun, or wandering over the dismal sandy " climes^' with a grey sea creeping flatly inshore, Eose told the story of the dragon at Caerlerrick, and Fatima purred and wondered. " And do you mean to tell me you don't even now know what the secret is?" she asks. " I have not the least idea," returns Eose, " unless it is Sir Cuthbert's temper." "It is not that. All Englishmen have tempers — fearful tempers. Lots of our workmen beat their wives. Your mother v,rould not complain of so usual a thing as her husband's temper.'' "Of course she would not," Eose says with some dignity. " She never speaks of Sir Cuthbert." VOL. II. 10 • 146 Forgotten Lives, " That's exactly an Englishwoman's way. She puts on her husband's boots for him in order that he may kick her the harder. And she goes about meekly with twopence-half- penny in her pocket, and bruises on her body. Oh, I know plenty of them ! They cry dreadfully, and are all nntidy, and can't cook anything." Eose grows indignant, and explains the vast difference between the higher and lower classes in England, but Fatima has fixed ideas respecting the wretchedness of Englishwomen generally, and she is not to be shaken out of them. So they leave the argument, and get back to Caerlerrick, and discuss and wonder what its mystery can be, till the sun sinks in the grey sea, and the old Flemish donne who keeps ward and w^atch over them from a distance looks like a witch in the weaning light as she stands on a high ''dune/' and beckons them home Avith bony hand. CHAPTEE IX. ^^^N the slopes of Bosanken the shadows ^S^ lay softly, and the glittering sun- shine of the summer day threaded the green gloom of its noble woods with a trembling and golden glory. Through the fresh foliage of the widespread beech and the hardier green of oak and ash the mid- day rays poured down, dotting the flower- sprinkled earth with a myriad fluttering shadows and dancing lights, all intermingled in filmy tracery. Just on the border of a wooded belt where the grass was greenest and a steep knoll was crowned by a gigantic elm, there rested a garden seat, with a scarlet cloak thrown carelessly across it. Seen from a distance, this l^right patch of colour had a picturesque effect, its vivid hue and its sharp contrast with the waves of grass and foliage forcing it conspicuously' on the vision. Even a mile away it caught the 10—2 148 Forgotten Lives. eye like a tiny blood-red sail on a green sea. About midwav between Bosanken and Caerlerrick there stood a much less pre- tentious dwelling — in fact, a mere thatched cottage, but so embowered in flowers and foliage, so set as it were like a jewel in the midst of the hill, that many an eye turned towards it longingly, and many a weary heart yearned for such a resting-place. The grounds around this pretty ~ gem sloped down to that vulgar place, the common road, but a thick hedge of laurel shut out the dust, and inside this green barrier revelled the laburnum and the lilac, the hawthorn, the myrtle, and the rose. Such a wilderness of tree and shrub, such a wealth of flowers, could be seen only in the Western Horn, where an Italian sky hangs over a richly-tinted landscape and a purple sea. This lovely cottage, this nest of sweet wonders and sunshine, is named Eosvean — a little hill ; and within its clematis-leaved walls Miss Emily Minshell has found a home. Or rather, let us say Mr. Crank had found it for her, for to him she fled for refuge when the indignant Miss Carteret Tor got fen Lives. .149 rebelled at last against lier ''companion," and dismissed her summarily, without salary and without character. " Character !" exclaimed that irate lady when Mr. Scrattle called on her with a mild expostulation from the Board. '' If I give her that it shall be her true one. Salary ! She has made a pretty good income out of me, I can tell you. If I sent her for tea at three shillings she brought it at tv/o, and eighteenpenny coffee was only chicory at a shilling. Ask the pastrycook round the corner how many cakes and pies Miss Minshell bought with my money. Ask him, I say ; but don't come here asking me for salaries and cha- racters for any of yoxxx orphans, for yoa wont get them. I am worn to a skeleton with worry, and I'm fifty pounds out of pocket. Orphans and saints ! I'll never be taken in again with either of them." Mr. Scrattle retired. Now Mr. Crank had always patronized Miss Minshell with a grim condescension ever since the day of her success at St. Cecilia's, and it was he who came to her rescue now, as she sat disconsolate in her attic over the pastrycook's eating mutton-pies. 150 Forgotten Lives. He bad a niece by marriage " down in tbe wilds of Cornwall/' as be used to say pity- ingly to bis smoke-begrimed London friends, and be betbougbt bimself of ber — sbe bad a cbaracter for eccentricity — as a fitting per- son to take Miss Minsbell off bis bands. So after duly reminding tbat young lady tbat sbe bad not tbe sligbtest claim upon bim individually, or upon tbe committee collectively, or, in fact, upon any institution wbatever, or any buman being wbatever, and bavin g no property, and no art at ber finger-ends, sbe clearly bad no rigbt to live, be gave ber a faint bope tbat out of bis great cbarity be migbt at some indefinite period give ber a tbougbt. And witb tbis be departed, leaving Miss Minsbell to drop tears into ber mutton-pies, and wisb, witb all ber small beart, tbat sbe bad saved some of Miss Carteret's money, instead of invest- ing it all in pastry. Eeflection, bowever, taught ber tbat tears, solitary tears, were a useless waste of sentiment ; at a proper time tbey migbt become good capital, but now tbey were notbing. So sbe went down straightway to tbe pastrycook and informed bim Mr. Crank was ber uncle — an enor- mously ricb uncle — and at present be was a Forgotten Lives. 151 little ofFendecl with her, but things would be sure to come right in time. Meanwhile she v/ould help in the pastry department for her board and lodging, if he would let her. She was not a bad hand at it already, she had made so many surreptitious cakes and pies at Miss Carteret's, baking them at secret times when that wronged lady was absent on mission- work. In this way Miss Minshell gave herself the only education she ever possessed. St. Cecilia's certainly be- stowed on her the foundation of greediness, the aptitude to pilfer, the brazen gift of lying, and the comfortable power of holding her own among strangers; but to Miss Minshell herself must be yielded the genius which enabled her to utilize these ^ifts, to procure for herself the art which made her fortune — the art of cookery. Fascinated by her falsehoods, awed by her tales of " Uncle Crank's" wealth, the pastrycook took her into his kitchen, and initiated her into the mysteries of his craft. Thus the one sole dream that had ever touched her imagina- tion was fulfilled, and in three months she could positively laugh at the world, and earn her living, although educated at St. Cecilia's. She had cunningly-skilled hands 152 Forrjotfen Lives. now, and tlie samplers, the slates, and tlie catechism of the asylum were no longer the sole staff she had to lean on for bread. At the end of three months Mr. Crank came for her in a cab. He expected to find her lean, tearful, melancholy, half- starved, humbled to the dust ; he saw her plumper than ever, with a merry countenance and a twinkling eye. For a moment he was savagely disappointed ; then, as she related what she had done, he relaxed, grew amused, and forgave her her small prosperity. So she went off in triumph with her rich "uncle," — ^the pastrycook believing her to the last, and putting a Madeira cake and a big bag of tarts in the cab as she drove away. " I have got you a place with my niece in Cornwall," said Mr. Crank. " Keep it. Don't let me hear any more complaints of you, as I have from Miss Carteret. This is the last time Til befriend you." So Miss Minshell went down third-class by slow train to Cornwall, and Mr. Crank kissed her in the cab just before it stopped — she looked so plump — and gave her half- a-crown, besides paying her fare. Thus, some four years or more since we Forgoiten Lives. 153 last parted with lier in Miss Carteret's service, ^Ye behold her again, luxuriously seated on a pile of cushions placed beneath a golden shower of laburnum. An opera- glass is in her hand, and ever and anon her eyes sweep the sunny slopes of Bosanken, and the gloomy woods lying around grey Caerlerrick. A curious, angry interest is irritating Miss Minshell's mind respecting the deni- zens of these two mansions. She cares nothing for the wild legends floating round the ancient roof of one, nor for the sorrow- ful story of disunion shadowing the other ; it is the astounding fact — displayed to her eyes last Sunday at church — that Barbara Lethbridge is an honoured guest at ^Bosan- ken, and Eose Carteret has her home at Caerlerrick ; that rankles in her mind, vexing it with curiosity and envy. " Well ! are you still spying out the land?" says an unexpected voice. It is an honest, clear voice, and it startles Miss Minshell, who rises from her cushions hurriedly, and turns to greet her mistress with ail due deference. '' Oh, Mrs. Daniel, 'that scarlet cloak is positively there still ! I do just want to ] 54 Forgotten Lives. see when tliey'll come back and take it away." "Who are 'they?'" asks Mrs. Daniel. " Is it Lady Theresa and her husband ?" " Lady Theresa is not with them/' returns Emily demurely ; ''it is Barbara Letlib ridge and Mr. Bosperis. She came out first and sat on that seat with a book ; then he came up the park and joined her, and, after talking some time — quite excitedly, I could see by their manner — they walked away together, leaving the book and cloak on the chair. I am sure I don't wonder that Lady Theresa and Mr. Bosperis live so unhappily." " What has their unhappiness to do with Miss Lethbridge ?" responded Mrs. Daniel, taking the glass from Emily's hand. " It goes back to a much remoter time than the date of her appearance here." " Well, but positively for three days I have watched them meet at that same spot." Mrs. Daniel does not answer, for at this moment two figures, both tall and graceful, round suddenly a group of trees which had hidden them from view, and approach the Yorgotten Lives. 155 seat which had so long been the object of Miss Minsheirs scrutiny. " There they are !" she cries excitedly ; " I call it shameful to walk about in that manner with Mr. Bosperis, I do." Mrs. Daniel this while has been looking quietly through the Dollond : she drops it now, and says drily — " Only that gentleman does not happen to be Mr. Bosperis. He is Lady Theresa's brother, Mr. Hope de Beau voir.'' "Ah, well ! I daresay he is another married man," retorts Emily, choking with malice. " Nothing of the kind. He is single, and as handsome as if he had walked out of a novel." For a moment Miss Minshell is silenced, and her plump face beneath the laburnum looks a little yellow, then she bursts into abuse. '' I am sure I am very sorry for him if Barbara Lethbridge makes him the hero of her romance." " Why, what do you know of Miss Leth- bridge ?" " A good deal ; she was a schoolfellow 156 Forgotten Lives, of mine. She was at St. Cecilia's, and your uncle, Mr. Crank, was obliged to expel lier." Possibly Mrs. Daniel's experience of Mr. Crank's justice may lead lier not to consider this an overwhelming proof against Barbara, for she only smiles and listens a little more intently as Miss Minshell continues her tirade. " She was a very revengeful, vindictive girl, and frightfully ugly." '' Ugly !" exclaims Mrs. Daniel ; " I con- sider her beautiful." Miss Minshell essays a laugh of con- tempt. " Beauty I suppose is a matter of taste. At all events, she was. ugly at the asylum, that was every one's opinion there. She is improved, certainly, but I don't admire her foreign style. Miss Carteret, though, was always lovely, even in the hideous St. Ce- cilia uniform." "What! was Miss Carteret— Sir Cuth- bert's heiress — at the orphan asylum with you?" Mrs. Daniel's surprise is so great that she lets the opera-glass fall on the sward, and Miss Minshell instantly and adroitly hides Forgotten Lives. 157 it beneiitli a cushion. She has been trem- bling lest it should be locked away, and she herself left;, like Othello, with her " occupa- tion gone." " She was there," says Emily, " but only for a day or two. Pray don't mention it to any one. She is so proud she would never forgive me.'' Mrs. Daniel cogitates silently, while Emily, in her vexation in having slipped out a secret, by which she meant to buy Eose Carteret's friendship, gnaws laburnum blos- soms, and revolves schemes for excusing herself. " I suppose Mrs. Carteret was very poor," Mrs. Daniel says at last. " That accounts for her marrying Sir Cuthbert." Miss Minshell, with a thousand little dotted shadows over her, making her look somewhat like a spotted toad, gazes out eagerly towards Caerlerrick. " I do so long to go over that old place," she says. " Fancy Mrs. Carteret and Eose being there ! I'd marry an ogre if he had a splendid old house like that. Poor ? Oh yes, I daresay she was poor enough !" " There are worse fates than being poor," 158 Forgotten Lives, returned Mrs. Daniel. " Doubtless Lady Treocethas feels that now." Miss Minsliell stared and shook her head solemnly. " You would not say that if you had been brought up in an orphan asylum, and had your hair dipped, and your brain nipped, and your stomach stinted as I have. Ro- mantic, sentimental poverty in a book is not a bit like the real thing. I know how the world treats real poverty ; it beats it, starves it, sells it for a slave, leaves it in rags, or dresses it in a hideous uniform. And most of these things it does in the name of charity — or commerce — that's the other grand word that excuses everything. But words don't take me in." And Miss Min- shell, shading her eyes with her hand, looked out towards Caerlerrick, " There's no fate worse than being poor," she con- tinued. " I was beaten when I was six years old — with a poker — for being poor. What can Lady Tregethas have to suffer in that big rich house ? Nothing, I should say, but megrims or nerves. She must be a clever, scheming woman ; so miist Barbara Lethbridge." Mr. Crank's niece by marriage listened to For(jotten Lives. 159' her new companion with a mixed expression of interest and pain on her face. " Why must they be scheming women ?'^ she asked abruptly. "There's evidence enough of that," said Emily. " When I last saw them they were both desperately poor, now I find one in a castle, the other in a mansion like a palace. I wish I had their sense or their luck. I am only a poor companion still, and thank- ful to be that, instead of walking about in a brown sack w^ith my head cropped, and feet in shoes like big dish-covers sliding about on the ground by mistake. Ah, I wish I was rich." And a tear or two fell on Miss Minshell's plump countenance. Mrs. Daniel in her reply to this began to display some of that eccentricity of which Mr. Crank had warned his prote(/ce. " Of wdiat use would riches be to you, unless you had three stomachs, like a cow ?" she said in a deep voice. " ' Ninus, the Assyrian, had an ocean of gold, and other riches, more than the sand in the Caspian Sea ; he never saw the stars, and perhaps he never desired it ; he never offered sacrifice, nor worshipped the Deity, nor administered 160 Forgotten Lives. justice, nor spake to liis people ; but he was most valiant to eat and drink, and having mingled his wines he threw the rest upon the stones. This man is dead : behold his sepulchre ; and now hear where Ninus is. Let him speak : — " Sometimes I was Ninus, and drew the breath of a living man ; but now am nothing but clay. I have nothing but what I did eat and what I served to myself in lust ; that was and is all my portion. I am gone to hell ; and when I went thither I neither carried gold, nor horse, nor silver chariot. I that wore a crown am now a little heap of dust.'' " "What in the world is all that ?" asks Miss Minshell in dismay. " Jeremy Taylor," returns Mrs. Daniel. " Give me my glass, please, which you have hid beneath that cushion. And I hope in future you wont make a keyhole of my laburnum-tree, through which to spy at my neighbours." With this Mrs. Daniel returns to the house, and Miss Minshell, wiping her tears of envy, meekly follows. " So she means to fling sermons at me," she says to herself '' Well, I'm poor. I'm born to be preached at." Forgotten Lives. 161 And with one last lino^eriuo: o^lance at the patch of scarlet still shining from afar in the landscape, and the two figures seated by it, apparently lost to all objects in the universe but themselves, Miss Minshell is swallowed up by the clematis-covered walls, and ceases to be the one sulky shadow in a sunny spot. VOL. II, 11 CHAPTEE X. HE wonders of galleries and palaces, the wonders of mountains and vales, were things Mr. Bosperis had seen again and again, and cared for no more than he cared for the dead leaves of the past summer. Yet he enjoyed the freshness, the happiness, the delight with which Barbara beheld the marvels that had wearied him. Her bright y on thful presence seemed a relief to the dull, dead apathy of that cold life he and Lady Theresa led together. Their mutual distrust, or weariness, or hatred, or suppressed passion, whichever it might be, shrank and dwindled before her influence, and lost somewhat of its irritating power to vex their daily lives. They seemed tacitly to agree to put the haunting shadow of their own sorrow out of sight for a time, and if the evil ghost was not quite laid at rest in the Dead Sea of the past, at least her haunting presence ceased to embitter every 1^ or gotten Lives. 163 feast. In fact, there existed in eacli of these vexed hearts a secret desire to keep Barbara with them, and neither desired to question the other's motives too closely, or to search too deeply into the reason of their increased comfort. A calm sea may be treacherous, but it is smoother to sail on than waves tempest-tossed, and Lady Theresa had learned to be thankful for tranquillity. To Barbara herself, when the first excite- ment of seeing Oliver's sister had passed away, it seemed a simple matter that they should meet — simple and natural as light, or the musical sound of streams and plea- sant look of green meadows, all which things we enjoy without wonder, and often without praise. She was very happy in seeing bright things, in visiting old historic lands ; she was still in her angel-years — the first fresh years of youth, when every sunshine makes a glory. And she had yet to learn how one unselfish love toiled to give her all this joy, and stood aside unregarded and forgotten, while she gave her thoughts to another. Oliver was still her Romance ; it was plea- sant to be with his sister — it made him a Eeality to her, and brought near to her many a token of his life and presence. She 11—2 164 • For gotten Lives. felt, too, a strange Tindercurrent as of mag- netism attracting lier to Lady Theresa and Mr. Bosperis, and she knew that in a diffe- rent way she was often the subject of thought, and interest, and scrutiny, both to the reckless husband and the sorrowful wife. Yet she liked to be with them : she had accepted their invitation instantly and with eagerness ; some craving or instinct in her nature was at rest in their home, and the hard days of the asylum seemed a dream to her as she wandered in the sunny glades of Bosanken. And now was not Oliver here ? — Oliver, whom she had not seen for a year, and whom in beholding again she shrank from some- what, with a little shadow of disdain upon her, till, with his old careless ease, his old assured sense of power, he threw the slight barrier down, and played again his old part of cautious, selfish, graceful lover. What did it matter ? The little game could never hurt him ; she had neither father nor mother, brother nor sister ; no one would call him to account ; and as for herself, she would disappear one day in the wilds of America. For eventually she would cer- tainly marry that bowie-knife, revolver- Forgotten Lives. 1G5 decorated cousin, though the story of her engagement to him had proved to be a fable invented by Eose. Meanwhile she was charming, and Bo- sanken, for the first time in his experience, was a pleasant place. And he would be honestly in love if circumstances would let him. Since they would not, he must set aside this creeping sense of dishonesty, and enjoy the happiness of her presence. It would not be for long. When they parted again — she might not know it, but he knew — it would be for ever. Thus things stood at Bosanken when Miss Minshell, beneath the laburnum, spied out the land. It was nearly six o'clock on that day when Barbara and her companion joined Lady Theresa on the lawn. " Where have you been, you two loi- terers ?" she said as she came forward to meet them. " Barbara, you have missed seeing your friend Miss Carteret to-day. She drove by twice in her pony carriage, and looked up the avenue with quite a frown on her pretty face. I felt sorry for her dis- appointment : poor little nun !" A guilty colour flashed over Barbara's 166 Forgotten Lives. cheeks; for this week past, since Oliver came, she had neglected Eose. Daily before this they had met either on horseback or in their drives, and Eose, in her gloom and loneliness, had learned to look on these meetings as the one bright spot in her dull day. " Is it possible there are amenities passing between the ogre's castle and Bosanken ?" said Oliver in surprise. " How has this happened, Theresa P" "Simply enough," she answered. '"'And the civilities, I assure you, are not alarming. Lady Tregethas' daughter and Barbara are old friends ; they meet on the high road, and are glad to see each other, and they part at the gates of their mutual encamp- ment, and one never asks the other to step within." " And are you not curious to know why ?" remarked Oliver, turning to Barbara. " How can you ask such a question?" in- terposed his sister quickly. " Why trouble Barbara with painful histories ?" She was quite pale, and her eyes fell re- proachfully on her brother. " I assure you," said Barbara, " these old- world stories do not pain me. Eose has Forgotten Lives. 167 told me of some ancient traditionary hatred between your families, and my only wonder is that you can still keep it up. It is time such things died away." A momentary silence followed her speech, then Lady Theresa spoke softly. " It is not an old hatred, it is a new one. You have no idea of the vindictive feeling between Mr. Bosperis and Sir Cuthbert. Has not Miss Carteret told you of it ?" " No," returned Barbara, " she never speaks of her stepfather. Perhaps she is afraid of him. I sometimes fanc}^ so." " I wonder the old tyrant lets her meet you," said Oliver. " It must be a great concession on his part to permit any human creature under his control to parley, with a foe from Bosanken." "It is a greater concession still on Er- nest's side," observed Lady Theresa. " Kothins: has astonished me like his silent acquiescence in their meetings. Every day I have expected to hear him entreat Bar- bara to discontinue them." " Mr. Bosperis would scarcely care to in- terfere with my friendship for a school- fellow," said Barbara, flushing a little. " Not if she were anywhere else but at 168 ForcjoUen Lives. Caerlerrick, Being there, in an enemy's house, he might ask a guest beneath his roof to remember his hatreds." It was strange how Lady Theresa always upheld her husband in his absence, though so cold and repelling to him in his presence. Barbara felt a little embarrassed, and knew not how to answer. Oliver came to her relief. " See how you have conquered," he said. " Bosperis lets you do what you like, even to the carrying daily a flag of truce into the enemy's camp. The outposts, you know, Theresa, always exchange civilities, though ready to drop them at command and fight instead. But never fear, Bosperis wont drag Barbara into this war. I am glad he and Sir Cuthbert 'too have sense to perceive that two young girls ought not to share their enmity." " I am glad too," returned Lady Theresa, " and yet I confess I have a strange, uneasy feeling about this matter. I am afraid I don't like Miss Carteret, beautiful as she is, and I wish sometimes Barbara had no friend at Caerlerrick." " But don't wish that Eose should have no friend at Bosanken," said Barbara. Forgotten Lives. 169 " Think how young and lonely she is. If yon could only see how her face brightens when she meets me, and how the tears come in her eyes when we part, you would not begrudge your foe's stepdaughter her only friend. Surely this little sad kindness out- side on neutral ground between her and me should not make you uneasy. What can two girls do to vex such great men as Mr. Bosperis and Sir Cutlibert Tregethas ?" " Nothing, I should think," said the voice of Mr. Bosperis himself. He was standing at the open French window of the library with a packet of letters in his hand. How much or how little of the conversation he had heard no one could tell. " I have been polite enough to ride to the town /or the second delivery of letters," he continued, " and here they are. One from Yankee-land for you, Barbara." He waited for her to come to him, and gave her the letter with a curious reluctance and a wistful shadow on his face. " I am sorry he heard us talking of Caerlerrick," whispered Theresa, as she and Oliver followed Barbara's steps. But her brother made no answer ; he entered by the open window quickly, and walked quite to 170 Forgotten Lives. the other end of the room. Here from a vantage-ground of security he watched Barbara as she perused her letter. She looked up at last from its pages with a frank joy beaming in her eyes. " My cousin Walter is coming home !" she cried exultingly. '' How glad I am !^ Then she gazed at the faces around her, as if for some expression of sympathy with her happiness, but she met only a blank silence. Lady Theresa flushed, Mr. Bos- peris's handsome face darkened, Oliver de Beauvoir alone, after a moment, spoke, with a shade of irony in his voice. " Is this the Yankee cousin of whose per- fections we hear so much ? I congratulate you on his expected arrival. Miss Leth- bridge." This with a slight drawl and a slight sneer, and a rustling of the newspaper in his hand. Barbara felt her heart beat faster; her voice took a grave tone. '•' I have never said more of Walter than he deserves — no, nor half as much as I ought to say of his goodness." " my prince of cousins 1" said Oliver. For (/of fen Lives. 171 " We Liave not done liim justice ; let us make amends/' And with careless eyes he ran down the columns of the newspaper, as if striving to find something worth reading. Barbara sat chilled, with her letter crushed in her hand, and her eyes darkening with a sort of wistful wonder. "Tou must not expect us to be very sj^mpathetic," observed Lady Theresa ; " we can hardly welcome news joyfully which I suppose will call you away from us." Barbara flushed a sudden crimson. She had not thought of this ; she had not remembered Walter could not come to her here. " Yes, I think I ought to go at once to London to meet him," she said. Her voice unconsciously took a sad tone, and she looked at Oliver with a little plead- ing air, which, instead of softening, vexed him. " That is American manners, I presume," he said, coldly. '' I believe American ladies can go where they choose, and meet as many cousins as they please." "And can't they in England?" asked Barbara, really and simply puzzled. 172 Forgotten Lives " Well, this is not quite so free a country as Uncle Sam's/' returned Oliver, setting the paper clown languidly. " Theresa, can young English ladies meet cousins in London and board at the same hotel with them? You do think of boarding some- where, I suppose. Miss Lethbridge, or shall you take apartments ?" " She will do neither," broke in Mr. Bosperis, in a strange, sharp tone. " If Miss Lethbridge wishes to see her cousin, he can come here to visit her." " Here 1" exclaimed Lady Theresa. "Yes, I shall be happy to receive Mr. Lethbridge if he will honour Bosanken with his presence. I cannot permit Barbara to go to London. I can allow no breach of custom in her case for an}^ cousin living. I trust she will excuse my saying so." And he turned towards her with one of his sudden, rare smiles. " I look upon myself and Lady Theresa as your guardians for the present," he said. As he finished speaking he relapsed into the careless manner peculiar to him, and his concluding words were uttered in a cold voice, as a mere expression of politeness, icy and smooth, with no warmth beneath it. Forgotten Lives. 173 Nevertheless, Barbara felt glad of liis invita- tion, and with a bright colour flashing over her face she thanked him frankly. " I confess I should feel very forlorn in London," she said, " and it is so long since I have seen Walter that I fear we can scarcely meet as brother and sister now. And yet he is the only relative I have in the wide world, so I ought not to change tow^ards him/' " The only relative !" repeated Lady Theresa ; " then you stand alone indeed. I cannot wonder you value your cousin." She did not second her husband's invita- tion, and her voice sounded a little cold to Barbara's ears. " May I ask him here ?" she said timidly. " Certainly, since Mr. Bosperis wishes it." " And since there are some others who do not wish it," observed that gentleman, whistling a little softly to himself. " Oh, I'll go to London to meet Walter !" cried Barbara. " Pray let me go ! I should not like him to come here if Lady Theresa does not wish it. What right have I to trouble her with an unwelcome guest ? Mr. Bosperis, I am so sorry !" " I don't see why you should be sorry. 174 Forgotten Lives. Lady Theresa will be extremely glad to see your cousin." As Mr. Bosperis uttered this in a dry tone, Oliver de Beauvoir flung his news- paper on the table impatiently, and declaring this was the sultriest evening he had ever known, he sauntered to the window and stepped out upon the lawn. His host looked after him with a flash of anger in his eyes. " He possesses the De Beauvoir nervous- ness," he observed in his hardest tone, " and he thinks only of himself, and builds u^d a cold wall of defence and hatred upon small suspicions — all that is in the De Beauvoir blood." Lady Theresa bent over her book, grow- ing pale to the lips. Barbara grew hot and cold. This was the first time in her pre- sence that Mr. Bosperis had broken down barriers, and burst into bitter speech. She felt herself guilty of his ill-temper, and looked imploringly at her hostess with eyes fast filling with tears. " I think I had better go to London," she said. " I fear I am the cause of pain here." " You are mistaken," returned Lady Forgoiten Lives. 175 Theresa, steadying her voice. " Mr. Bos- peris, will 3^011 tell Barbara that her stay with us is the first happiness that Theresa de Beauvoir and Ernest Bosperis have shared together for many years ?" There was an indescribable accent in the sounding of her maiden name, a mixture of sadness and bitterness, which struck the ear with an emphasis that lingered strangely in the memory. " Do you need any assurance of it, Barbara ?" asked Mr. Bosperis, with a sudden change in tone and manner. " Can you not see it for yourself? It is only across your face that my wife and I give each other a smile." In the inflection of his voice on the word wife there was an echo of the bitterness in Lady Theresa's tone. She closed her book as he spoke, and looked him earnestly, sor- rowfully in the face. "Ernest, let our griefs be for ourselves alone ; surely it is worse than folly to vex Barbara's heart with them." Then she held out her hand to her young guest, and her lips shuok a little as she clasped it. " Barbara," she said, " in our childless 176 'Forgotten Lives. home it is sunshine and bread to see a face like yours ; you save us many a bitter hour. Though we may agree in nothing else, we are one in this — our affection for you." Something in her words moved Mr. Bosperis with an agitation he could ill conceal ; his face flushed, he turned away to the window with a swift step. " My wife speaks truly, Barbara, and our only cause for vexation to-day is that she and I differ a little in our views for your welfare. She does not like cousins, I don't like brothers." What could he mean ? thought Barbara. Did he allude to her sisterly regard for Walter, or was he thinking of his wife's brother ? If so, it was better not to reply to this. " I hope Lady Theresa will learn to like Walter when she knows him," she returned. "He has been a good and true friend to me — so true and brotherly that I should be ashamed to tell him, that I had the least scruple with regard to meeting him in Lon- don in the old childish, sisterly way." " There will be no need to tell him any- thing of the sort, since you will see him here," said Lady Theresa a little eagerly. Forgotten Lives. Ill " It will be mucli better to keep up the old kindly fraternal feeling on his part, and not let any coldness cliange it. Ernest, shall I write to Mr. Lethbridge and invite him, or will you ?" She addressed her husband with a sudden blush, as often happened when she spoke to him, yet her voice had instantly grown cold and constrained. Standing at the window as he was, he did not see the blush, he only heard the tone. " Do not trouble yourself," he replied with intense politeness. "I hitend to do myself the pleasure of writing that invita- tion. Here is your brother beckoning to you ; apparently he has something wonder- ful to show you of the caterpillar or viper species." Lady Theresa rose and went hurriedly to another window, which she opened in ner- vous haste, but as she stepped forth her husband stopped her. '' Do not go without a cloak, Theresa," he said in a softer tone. ?' The evening is growing chill, and you forget always you are not strong." A shawl was lying on a chair, and he VOL. II. 12 178 'Forgotten Lives. would Lave placed it around her shoulders but she drew back hastily from his proffered aid. " I can put it on best myself, thank you/' she said in a cold, trembling voice. " As you please," he answered. Then he opened the window wide for her, and as she passed through Barbara heard him say in a low voice — " Tell him I invite to my own house whom I please. If he dislikes any guest of mine he can leave. Not that I wish it, if his stay gives you pleasure. It is he who seeks a quarrel, not I. I have told you so before. Keep it smooth between us if you will ; if not I don't care." He turned away with a slight shrug of the shoulders, while his wife's face flushed and her lips quivered, but she answered not a word, and in another instant brother and sister passed down the lawn and out of sight among the thick summer foliage. Barbara felt angry and hurt. " Mr. Bosperis," she said in an agitated voice, " I cannot permit my cousin to be a guest here if his coming causes pain to Lady Theresa. You must not send that in- vitation." Forgotten Lives. 17D " I shall write it tliis evening," he answered carelessly. "It is not Theresa who objects — it is her brother. I thought you understood that." He flung himself into a low chair close by the lounge on which Barbara sat, and gazed into her face with such sad, earnest steadfastness that she grew hot and cold,, amazed and abashed, wondering at him all the time. '' So you don't understand ?" he said in a moment, seeing she kept silent. " You have never heard of* the dog in the manger? An insolent dog he was too. God ! what a weary, mean world this is, and how a man's hands get bound by the devil !" " What do you mean ?" said Barbara, getting angry at this interference. " I have no need of your help, Mr. Bosperis. There is no reason why you should wish to let loose your wrath on my account."' " On my own, then, there is ample reason. I hate cowards." Barbara flashed an angry look at him. " You dislike Mr. De Beauvoir because he is your wife's brother," she retorted. He laughed at this, a short, hard laugh. "What a loving couple you think us 12—2 yy ISO Forgotten Lives. lie said. "Come, are you engaged to that young man?'" " No," in a low voice, and a blush like a crimson shadow flying over her face. " To the other one, then ?" " No/' again. And this '' No '*' was given with a ringing laugh. " How absurd ! I have not seen Walter for four years." " I am very glad of it. I don't want you to see him. I like 3'ou better than either of those two men do." " Mr. Bosperis !" exclaimed Barbara, " are you mad?" " Not at all. I speak sober truth. ' My pulse discourses most excellent music' * I know a hawk from a handsaw.' One of these young fellows is the hawk, the other the saw — he has cut your way to fortune. As for me, I hate them both. I want to do all things for you myself." The desperate tone of weariness and pain in which he spoke disarmed Barbara's anger. She looked at him in sorrowful amazement. " Do not talk to me like this, Mr. Bosperis. I wont bear it. And Lady Theresa is my friend. I love her very much." Forgotten Lives. ISl His eyes sjjarklecl, then drooped ; a curious spasm crossed liis face. " How you would laugli if I were to say, ' And so do L' " " I should not laugh — I should be glad. I wish it were true." "Do you ?" he said, relapsing into his old careless jesting way. '' That would be a sad affair. I should soon break my heart or put a pistol to my head. No, no, the saints defend me from loving a De Beau voir 1" " And why ?" asked Barbara impatiently. " Is not Lady Theresa lovable, beautiful, and good?'' " Too good," he rejoined bitterly. " She hates all evil things, including myself.^ Oh, it is astonishing how deep is her hatred for the incarnate sin represented in my person." " I have never seen it," said Barbara, besrinnin": to tremble at his vehemence and at her own rashness in touching on such a topic to him. " Not seen it ! Nevertheless it is as pal- pable to the sight as that cloud going over the sun. There, see ; the sky is as grey as mv life." He rose, took a step or two to the window, 182 Forgotten Lives. then came back to his chair with a double listlessness over all his aspect, as though seeking to make amends to himself for his passing emotion. " I don't often howl to the moon," he said carelessly. " I know better. Lady Theresa brings her priests and her Church against me. I bow to Eome as a sensible man should. When the confessional gets into a house peace leaves it. A husband is nothing against a priest. You see that, don't you?" Barbara tried to answer playfully. " I see that you have no right to ask me unfair questions," she said. " Ko right !" And again he scanned her face with a sad, earnest look. " It is strange, but I find myself a man without rights. No sooner do I claim a confidence, a touch of kindness, a little trust, than I discover I have no right to anything but hate." " Do I hate you, Mr. Bosperis ?" said Barbara, looking up quickly. The question thus abruptly put struck bim like a blow ; for a moment he gazed into her face speechless in a sort of wild dismay, then he cried out hastily — Forfjottcn Lives. 1S3 "? Why do you ask me that r" He stopped, and his voice fell suddenly. " Oh no, you mean nothing. But, Barbara, you are mad to ask me such a question. I have only prayed, child, to escape your hate. I have never dared to dream " Again he stopped, with his hand upon his brow, then almost in a whisper he repeated his last words sorrowfull}^ "No, I have never dared to dream 3^ou could give me one kind or pitying thought. I have only prayed to escape hate." Barbara had risen, and, confused and trembling, she stood leaning on a chair looking at him with crimson cheeks and eyes full of amazement. What did he mean ? What had she said to provoke such words from him ? Over all his weary aspect there seemed to grow a deathly cold- ness as she looked, and his face was ashen pale, his lips dead white. Barbara's nervous grasp of her sup23ort relaxed : her voice broke pity in gl}^ on his ear. " Mr. Bosperis, surely you are not well ; you are talking wildly to me to-day.'' "Madly you mean. Yes, it is a mad world, and the wind blows from Caerlerrick 184 For (/often Lives to-claj ; there's lunacy in every breatli one draws. Have you seen your friend Eose lately ?" "Not these three days/' said Barbara, greatly relieved by the sudden change in his manner. " Go and see her to-morrow. Go to the ruined chapel at the edge of the wood at five o'clock. You'll find her there." He walked to the window whistling " La donna e mobile," but here he turned. " I have said before I am a man without rights. I have no right to ask you a favour, have I ?" "JSTot that I know of," said Earbara gravely. " Just so — not that you know of. We all know so little. Miss Lethbridge. Now, it seems odd to me that I should ask you a favour ; there is something bitter in it even, yet I do ask it. Eide with me to-morrow at five o'clock ; we'll see Eose Carteret to- gether." " You !" exclaimed Barbara in astonish^ ment. "Yes — why not? I have no feud against Miss Carteret. On the contrary, I am grate- W to her. And even my old hatreds are — Forgotten Lives, 185 yes, it is the truth — dying- out. Don't tell Theresa that, or our old prophetess Deborah ; she would think it the work of witchcraft. Perhaps it is." He went out at the window laughing, then stepped back. " Barbara, I am anxious about the ride. Will you go ?" " No, I think not." " Then will you go alone ?" A swift blush flew across Barbara's face from ear to ear. " Yes, I'll go alone." " One thing more. Promise me you will not tell that handsome dog in the manger in what direction you mean to ride." Barbara's cheeks were crimson, her lips shook, her heart fluttered, yet some instinct told her Mr. Bosperis was a truer friend than Oliver de Beauvoir. "I will not sav I mean to ride at all." A bright look passed over the weary face, a flash offender joy beamed in the hollow ej^es, yet he only smiled an answer and went silently away. CHAPTER XI. LITTLE graceful figure with soft step goes down a dark corridor at Caerlerrick, and pauses at a small arched door with a shadow of angry fear on its pretty bright face. " Is that Eose ?" cries a preternaturally sweet voice from within. " Yes, Raven, it is I. What do you want now r " I want to speak to you. I want to see your face." Rose pushes the door petulantly, and as it slowly opens she passes within with a weary air. " Well, here I am. Raven. And I don't think my face has changed since yesterday." " Changed ! No ; and I don't look for change in you. You were ever wild and wilful, and may be selfish too." "Thank you, Raven. 'No one can say Forgotten Lives. 187 such pretty things to me as you do," returns Eose, pouting. " No one else speaks truth to you. Better hear it from me than learn it yourself in a more bitter way." " You are a true raven ; you croak only evil. For how many hundreds of years has that false sweet voice of yours been heard in this old dragon's keep ?" Wilfully did Eose thus touch the chord that jarred in that aged heart, and Primrose, dimly feeling the selfish carelessness of the deed, retorted in a grim way — " More than two hundred years, my dear; yes, yes, nigh two hundred and fifty years. A long time to wait for the end." And with a ringing laugh her piercing eyes looked up at Kose with a gleam of ugly fire. " You frighten me," said the girl drawing back. " This is why I hate to come to your room." " So you hate to come and see a poor old creature who is your nearest relative on earth except your mother," said the sweet voice of Primrose wistfully. Eose clenched her little hand angrily. 188 Forgotten Lives. and held it up with a menace against the wrinkled face. "How dare you say that?" she cried; " you say it to vex me. You know I detest the thought of any relationship between you and me." " And why ?" asked the sweet voice again. " What have I done to you that you should hate to think my blood runs in your vems t '' Nothing," said Rose, turning away with a shudder. " Only it is not pleasant, you 11 own that." "It is more bitter for me than for you," retorted Primrose, as her angry eyes fol- lowed the girl's retreating figure. " Come back, I say, and tell me why you hate it." " Why !" repeated Eose scornfully ; " is it pleasant, think you, for a young girl to be shut up in a wizard castle like this, and find an ancestress, in the shape of a hideous old raven with a nightiugale's throat, claiming kin with her in a voice like yours ? I tell you it is dreadful, it is horrible, it terrifies me. Though I make a story of it and laugh at it, yet it haunts me night and day, as you do ; yes, yes, you seem to be For (/off 6)1 Lives. 189 •everywhere witli me, as if you were my very self." Primrose Belienna clasped her skinny hands together at this, and laughed. "And so I am. Are you not Eose Be- henna? And you came to me one night when I watched by the pool where you drowned yourself for the sake of Stephen Bosperis ; there you made a compact with me. You told me I was going to die, and you gave me your life to keep till you came for it again. Do you mind it ? Are you come now ?" And her thin fingers clutched at Eose by her dress, and drew her to the bedside. "Let me go, you mad old creature 1" shrieked Eose in terror ; " if I believed your stories I should grow mad as you." Primrose relaxed her hold, and the wild fire in her eyes died out. " Your mother believes me," she said gently ; " she know^s full well that her father was my prodigal son who ran away to Prance and took a new name. She does not den}^ her parentage. I gave her sure proof the day she entered Caerlerrick. Ha ! ha ! to think of my waiting so long for the bride, and then welcoming my own^ kin home to 190 Forgotten Lives. the old roof- tree ! Well, well, one lives to see strange things. It is only to live long enough, and one sees the lieav3r scale grow light, and misery sit in palaces, and the daughters of wicked wealth among the scullions." " You have lived too long," returned Rose excitedly; "why don't you die? I believe some of your mad stories sometimes. I don't tliink one human being ever could live so long as you. Perhaps it is true that you have two lives, and some poor soul that was snatched away too soon, came back and gave the rest of her dismal life to you. I wish she would come for you, I wish you were dead and buried out of my sight, Eaven. You frighten me so, you horrible old woman, you do." "Never fear, you'll come for me soon enough. It is you, you know, who will fetch your spirit from me when you want it yourself — ha ! ha ! ha !" laughed Primrose, peering at her maliciously with fiery coal- black eyes. " Meanwhile we'll keep the secret, you and I — we two who are only one. I told you long ago how nearly I died that night by the pool, and the poor drowned creature who haunts Caerlerrick For(/ofieu Lives. 191 Clime to me, and gave me tlie life that sliould liave been hers. ' And hark !' she whispered, ' when I return to Caerlerrick in the flesh I'll take it back, Primrose.' " " What madness are you twisting out of your poor old wrecked brain now ?" said Eose, trying to laugh. " what a hor- rible, ghastly, old living skeleton you. are, Eaven 1" " Who'll be the ghastlier when we are dead, you or I?" asked the malicious old woman, galled by the girl's taunts and cruelty. " You'll be a more horrible sight than I if all is true that I hear in whispers round the walls." If it was her wicked pleasure to revenge herself on Eose by the terror she inspired, she 'succeeded to her heart's content, and a smile flitted through her awful eyes as she saw the js^irl leaning trembling against the bed. " You are only raving," gasped Eose. " I don't heed you. Only I shall tell my mother what you say, and she wont let me come to your room again to be terrified by your madness." " You'll come whenever I call you," said Primrose, in her old sweet voice. ''It is 192 I< or (/often Lives. not much to do for a poor old bedridden woman, to show her your bright face now and then. The day will come when you'll call me, and then I must go whithersoever you lead me. That's a sad secret for us two to know. Don^t tell it again- She will kill you if you do." '' Who will kill me ?" asked Eose with a little sickly laugh. "Is it the ghost of Sir Malins ?" Primrose held up her skinny forefinger in warning. " Hush !'' she whispered cautiously, " she may be listening ; she is often listening when we don't suspect it. We must not let her hear too much ; she is very wicked at times — it is only I who know how wicked. Ah ! it has been a rare martyrdom of late years, my poor old forgotten life. But what does it matter ? A Behenna always has to suffer for a Tregethas." " You have taught my mother that saying," returned Eose ; " I hate to hear it 1 And of whom are you talking ? who is wicked ? But I am foolish to ask ; you are always raving." '' Not always !" And Primrose's sweet voice sank to its lowest cadence. '' She is Forgotten Lives. 193 wicked ; she comes and whispers to me, and bids me do rare things — dreadful things. I tell you it is awful for me to hear her. I shake and quiver from head to foot when she steals in here at night and looks at me with her dead face all white and shining." " So the Caerlerrick ghost haunts you, does she?" Eose says half scornfully, half in fear. " I don't wonder your poor old wits are crazed." " What will your mother's wits be worth when she has borne a weird watch like mine, so many years as I have?" retorted Prim- rose fiercely. " Ah, it is her turn now. As one Behenna sinks down helpless, another comes to sufier for a Tregethas in her place." Eose gazed at her with flushing cheeks and angry tears gathering in her eyes. '' I wish we had stayed in France : we were happy then. I wish mamma had never seen Sir Cuthbert!" she cried bit- terly. foolish little Eose, whose voice but yours urged this grand marriage on your trembling mother ? " Tush, child !" said Primrose ; "the thing was fated ; it is folly to rebel against fate. VOL. II. 13 194 Forgotten Lives. Sir Cuthbert saw the Belienna stamp upon your inotlier's face, and knew she was the woman he needed. When one Behemia is ready to die the Tregethases look for another." '' Does Sir Cuthbert know that my mother is your grandchild?" cried Eose. " JSTo, no, brave as she is, she has not had courage to tell him that. The Behennas are faithful servants — faithful to death ; but their masters do not take them for wives." She laughed, and locked her thin small hands together tightly. "No, no, not for wives, though Eose Behenna should have been a wife if justice could have lived in a bad heart. Ah, Stephen ! Stephen ! thou wast well avenged ! See how her words break from me ! I tell you it is torture to have another woman's life in you, and all her sins upon your heart — torture !" And crossing her thin arms upon her bosom. Primrose Behenna clutched her own shoulders and held down the shudder that shook her frame. Then her great wistful eyes, full of eager passion, looked out afar upon the wood, and rested on the deep dell with its dark pool, upon whose waters the evening sun glinted redly, mingling v/ith Forgotten Lives. 195 many shadows. It was strange how youth- ful and yearning was her look, set though her eyes w^ere amid time's deep wrinkles, in a visasfe so scarred and marred with as^e as hers. Suddenly her gaze turned from the window, and her eyes, full of their youthful, awful fire, hlazed on Rose in dire- ful wrath. " How dared they name you Rose, and bring 3^ou here to torment me in my last days ?" she cried. " It was a presumptuous deed to give you that fatal name, and then bring you to Caerlerrick." Frightened at her vehemence Rose shrank against the wall, saying with a little pitiful lauc^h — " How can I help my name. Raven ? I did not give it to myself; it was my grand- father who chose it." '' He was always wilful and reckless," said Primrose, and her voice sank again to its plaintive sweetness. "What a hand- some boy he was ! what a gallant man in the days when he courted Deborah ! — she who is an old grey image now at Bosanken. When he jilted her and ran away I think she turned to stone. Well, well, he broke my heart too, and a mother is not as much 13—2 196 Forgotten Lives. to a boy as a sweetheart. Yes, always reckless. He is the first of our race since Sir Malms' time who has dared to call a child by the old fated name. We have gone very near it — my name is near it — near enough for sorrow, but not for death and crime, as yours is." ''Are you threatening me ?" cried Eose, growing angry through very terror. "I will not listen to your maundering." And she put both her hands on her small ears. " I never come to your room that you do not terrify me with stories of spectres, or prophecies of evil." " I tell 3^ou the truth ; would you have a raven tell you lies ?" asked Primrose, with a hideous grin of malice. " Is it because I call you Eaven that you hate me ? I meant no harm in giving you that name!" said Eose, quite humbly; *' it only grew out of a foolish fairy tale that mamma and I talked of when she was going to marry Sir Cuthbert," " Better call me Eaven than give me a name that would own our kinship. Sir Cuthbert would never forgive his wife her Behenna blood !" returned Primrose, with a sorrowful scorn in her sweet voice. " I saw Forgotten Lives. 107 it in her face as lier shadow fell upon the threshold of Caerlerrick, hut he was blind to it ; yet it led him to follow her from place to place till he gained her unwilling hand. Had he no misgiving when he sought her ? Did no whisper come to him that only a Behenna could have that stamp upon her brow ? only a Behenna could possess the courao^e to dwell in haunted Caerlerrick and fulfil her appointed task ?" " What task, Eaven ?" And Eose, draw- ing nearer in her curiosity, leaned her bright 3^oung face over the shrivelled cheek of Primrose. Then, to her horror, the aged crone started upright, and thrust her away with both wrinkled hands. " Keep back !" she cried; "you al'e come for me too soon ; it is just in that shape you came years agone, tempting me with your awful promise of longer life. I am weary — weary of it ; but you shall not take back your gift so soon. I want still to live — to live ! Yet, God ! how long and dreadful are these sultry days as they go slowly by like dead dreams, and the pillow aches and hardens beneath my white head." Her wild words ended to the silver music of a bell, which broke upon their ears with 198 Forgotten Lives. such a startling sound that Eose shrieked aloud, and clung with frightened grasp to the outstretched skeleton arms of Primrose. " Will you never let me go ?" she whis- pered pitifully. "There, there, I'll keep my word — I'll die when you want your life again ! But am I to feel your dreadful clutch upon my heart always till it withers in the fire ?" As she wandered thus, her aged wits all crazed and rambling, the bell never ceased to sound;, sending its clear notes in a silvery shower from the old carved ceiling, where it hung amid cobwebs and ancient dust, and long ra3^s of sunset light. Looking up with those piercing youthful wild eyes of hers. Primrose Behenna shook her thin forefinger at the bell gently, and her mood changed as suddenly as a shifting wind at sea. " Have you broken loose again, poor sorrowful creature ?" she said. " That's Sir Malins' bell." And her skinny finger fell on the arm of Eose. '' He is ringing for Eose Behenna. Go, tell your mother Sir Malins ring-s to-nig-ht. I am too old to answer now when the dead calls me. Go, child — go at once !" Forgottoi Lives. 109 Rose needed no second behest. She fled swiftly dowD the corridor, her heart upon her lips, and ran breathless to the distant sunny side of old Caerlerrick, where, with a book upon her knee, the lady of the man- sion sat wearily looking out upon the slant- ing sunbeams and long shadows lying on the tall rank grass. " Mamma," said Rose softly, " is that you sitting^ silent in the window? You seem a ghost to me !" And wdien her mother answered her with a loving word, the girl started forward, and, flinging herself upon her knees, she bent her face upon her hands and wept aloud. " Rose, my darling Rose, what has frightened you ?" cried Lady Tregethas. " Everything frightens me in this dread- ful place. I cannot stay here. And I am always alone — alone ! The only breath of sunshine that ever falls on me is when I see Barbara, and for three whole days she has not met me. She has left me standing alone at Bosanken gate." A little flash of anger shot through her tears, and sent a tiny flame from either eye. " I hate Mr. De Beauvoir : it is he who keeps Barbara away." 200 Forgotten Lives. Lady Tregetlias laid her liand gently on lier daughter's head. " Take care, Eose. Eemember we cannot have all we wish for. Mr. De Beauvoir is certainly your friend's lover." " Is he ?" says Eose carelessly, brushing her tears away with a little laugh. "Well, he may be if he chooses. I had a child's fancy for him once. JN'ow I hate him ! He is so greedy, always keeping Barbara from me." Lady Tregethas looked at her beautiful daughter with an anxious gaze. " 1 scarcely think you hate him, Eose." " Yes I do !— I detest him ! All the day long he saunters about the park with Bar- bara. She has no time to speak to me now." '' Shall I invite Blanche Valdelapins here, Eose ? Sir Cuthbert will let me ask her if you like." " If I like !" exclaimed Eose, all her tears swept away in the lightning of her eyes. " how glad I should be !"" Lady Tregethas smiled wistfully at her daughter's joy. " You are as dear to Sir Cuthbert as his own child, Eose, or he would not grant you Forgotten Lives. 201 such an indulgence as this. It is many a long year since a stranger came as a guest to Caerlerrick. Do not vex Sir Cuthbert by any childish, deceitful folly, Eose." " Why should I vex him ?" asks Eose, turning a crimson cheek away from her mother. ''I am sure whenever I have met Barbara I have guarded his outlandish hatreds and prejudices as strictly as he could himself." " Do not say outlandish, Eose. There is cause for hatred between him and Mr. Bos- peris. Xever speak again in that light tone." " Xever speak at all — would not that be better?" exclaims Eose bitterly. ''I am w^eary of these mysteries and hatreds, old as the hiUs, old as the ghost and Sir Malins — old as the Dragon himself. Is one never to open one's lips in this Dragon's keep ?" Lady Tregethas sighed deepl}^ '"' If you feel you are paying too dearly for your position, Eose, can I help that ? Is it nothing to be declared heiress to such wealth as this ? Surely you can give Sir Cuthbert a little obedience — a little kind- ness in return." 202 Forgotten Lives. Rose was silent, half in anger, half in shame. " And do not ridicule Primrose Behenna," continued her mother. '' The relationship she claims with me should make you kind to her." '' She hates me !" returned Eose, flushing crimson. " Why should I be kind to her ? And to-day she is madder than ever. She frightens me. There ! I have forgotten her message ! I was to tell you Sir Malins was ringing the ghost bell." For the first time in this colloquy Lady Tregethas grew angry, pale, and grave. " I dislike jests on this subject," she said ; " choose something else to laugh at, Eose." " But, mother, the bell really rang. I was in Primrose Behenna's room, and both heard and saw it." With her sad eyes fixed strangely on her daughter. Lady Tregethas rose hurriedly. '' Are you sure it was no other bell, Eose?" " Quite sure. There is no other bell in all the house has the odd sweet sound of that one." " Then you should have told me in- Forcjotten Lives, 203 stantly. You know not what mischief you do by your forgetfuhiess." And so saying Lady Tregethas walks swiftly to the door. " But, mother, who rings Sir Mai ins' bell ?" persists Eose, standing in her way. "No one — Primrose herself, perhaps, or I do sometimes. Let me go, child !" And Lady Tregethas breaks away with a white steadfastness upon her face, sad and silent. For a moment Eose stands with scarlet cheeks and eyes ablaze with angry curiosity. Tlien with a step swift and soft as the shadow of a deer, she flies up the great staircase and through long galleries to the gloomy corridor where the lamp 'swings above the secret stairs leading to Sir Malins' room. But here she meets a locked door, and with a hard frown upon her pretty face she turns disappointed away. " Nothing to tell him again,'' she says to herself — " nothing." Then she looks at her watch, and her eyes brighten, her cheek flushes, her lips smile. " What does it matter so I see him ? so I get him away from Bar- bara ?" CHAPTER XII. HALF-HEAETED lover wears out patience and wearies hope, and in the end he gets hated and despised for liis pains, just, perhaps, as his own faint fires are burning into a flame, and he has made up his poor mind that the best thing he can do for IdmHelf is to take the girl whom he has so long courted with such selfish caution. Oliver de Beauvoir loved Barbara in his way, and it was not altogether his fault if this way was selfish and small. The pre- judices of class and caste were not of his making. His narrow fortune too, as a younger brother, was not of his building, and it could scarcely be hurled at him as a reproach that, as a point of conscience, he had refused to enter the Church and accept the family living as a means for becoming steady, respected, and rich. He had grown to be something of a " loafer" through this For (/of ten Lives. 205 refusal of tlie only career offered to liim, and the time had slipped by which he niiglit have made available for the study of some other profession. Thus his own heart was not without its secret root of bitterness as he brooded over his love for a girl too poor, too insignificant to be aught but a drag on his already poor fortunes if he mar- ried her. "Nothing can help me now but a rich wife," he said to himself with intense dis- gust, as he walked slowly through park and meadow to keep his tryst with Rose. " This little girl is the heiress of that cracked baronet," he continued. " I wonder whether he would object to a De Beauvoir ? The mad letters which reach Theresa from Caerlemck are always civil to he7\ It is Bosperis he hates. Well, we shall see. When I get at the root of this mystery I may have the old lunatic in my power, and can dictate terms. And, heigho ! Rose is very pretty !" He broke into a whistle and walked on faster till he readied a style leading into the footpath, which crossed a corner of the park at Caerlerrick. Here he paused and lighted a cigar, and stood a moment 20G Tor gotten Lives. puffing at it tliouglitfully, with eyes scan- ning the wide domain, the stately mansion, the glorious timber, and the green hills beyond. " It is a splendid property," he said, jerk- ing away the ashes of his cigar. " And the old man has neither kith nor kin — he gives it all to Lady Tregethas and her daughter. Am I a fool that I hesitate at such a chance ? What a place I could make of this !" He vaulted over the stile, and stood again with something of a smile, something of the air of possession in his eyes and face as he looked down over the sloping glades of the park. The spot on which he stood was high ground, breaking in front of him into the ruggedness of a cliff, with here and there a jutting rock, a bush of gorso and broom, and tufts of purple heath in blossom. Further below still the descent grew more precipitous, till it ended in a sheer cliff, down whose jagged side there poured a waterfall, making now but a faint murmur in its dwindled summer strength as it reached the pool beneath. All along upon the troubled water there lay the shadows Forgotten Lives. 207 of leaves mingled witli the glare of the evening sun. Suddenly, as Oliver gazed down on the pool, his face changed. The smiling air of mastership left his lips, and he started back almost guiltily. The shadow of a woman had crossed the Avater, and lay dark and still among the fluttering leaf-shades and changeful gleams of light sparkling on tlie surface. "It is Barbara!" said Oliver. "What can she be doins: here?'* He went down a step or two of the rugged descent the better to see the pool, then for a single instant the woman's shadow touched his sight and fled. He knew that one step backwards from the brink might withdraw her image from the water quickly as the passing of a swift, yet he felt angry and amazed, and there grew upon his mind a sense of something strange and dreadful. He felt as though he had crossed the borders of the unseen world, and his eyes had looked upon a sight he should never see again. This was just for a second of time — the moment it takes to flash a thought from the brain to the chilled blood 208 Forgotten Lives. — then he dashed down the rugged way with headlong speed, saving himself at the cliff's edge by a hair's breadth ; and here, clutching at the branch of a stunted tree, he leant over and gazed upon the pool. It was empty of all shadows except the sky, the twinkling leaves and lights, and his own scared face looking strangely white in the dark water. He drew back with a long breath, and getting a better grasp upon the tree, and a firmer footing, he slowly scanned the borders of the lonely pool and the paths within his sight, looking for the vanished figure. But all was emptiness, and solitude, and silence. The quiet trickling of the dwindled waterfall from rock to rock, and its faint splash as it touched the waters below, were the sole sounds that broke the awful stillness. " Am I dreaming ?" Oliver asked him- self. " No ! it 1.0 m Barbara !" And with sudden vehemence he called her name aloud twice or thrice. To his first and second cry there came no answer, but as he called her name for the third time Barbara^s voice replied to him. '' Gro back!" she cried angrily. "Do you want to die and haunt us ? This pool Forgotten Lives. 209 lias seen enoiigli of poor drowned creatures. Go back, I say !" These last words were uttered almost in a shriek, as though she were struck by terror ; and he fancied she was shrinking back from the sight of his sliadow in the water, showing him holding to the branch by one hand as he leant half his body over the pre- cipice striving to see the speaker. " Can I get down to you, Barbara ?" he called aloud. " Where are you ?" " Far away," returned the voice, as if receding to a distance. " Who calls on Barbara ? She cannot come to you. She lies dead at home." The last w^ords were spoken faintl}^, and as they ceased a sudden silence fell^on him, broken only by the drip, drip of the water as it trickled slowly down to the pool below. For a moment the scene, the solitude, the voice brought a feeling to his heart of a ghastly sort, like the touch of a dead hand, or the sudden sight of a dead face ; then he threw off* the impression, and passed his hand across his brow with a forced laugh. " This is mad ground," he said, " and either Barbara has caught the Caerlerrick VOL. II. 14 210 Forgotten Lives, lunacy or I have. Let us see which it J? IS. By the strong branch of holly he swung himself again to his feet, and dashed up the rocks till he reached a winding path leading down to the borders of the pool. This he traversed like a deer, with eyes and heart still outstripping his speed ; but no lake in a solitary land untrod by man could be more lonely or silent, than was this cold sheet of Avater, when its face and its shadows met his sight. For a little while he searched about on every side eagerly, then suddenly he de- sisted, with a vague disappointment and chill upon him. '' It is a new phase in Barbara's character to play foolish, romantic tricks," he said to himself coldly. " And what can be her motive ? How could she tell I should pass this way ?" This last question startled him, and not heeding his path he took a wrong turning, and, after twisting and winding among trees and high shrubs, he came out on the great avenue at Caerlerrick. And this was not the worst, for at the first step he took among the widespread shadows he Forgotten Lives. 211 came face to face with the glooipy, hard, stern man upon whose head hiy, as he thought, all the sorrow of his sister's life. Sir Cuthhert slightly raised his hat in passing ; then stopped, and came back a step. " This is not the day for showing Caer- lerrick to visitors," he said. Then meeting Oliver's keen, curious look, he recognised him, and his worn, haughty face changed suddenly. " Mr. De Beavoir, are you aware that you are trespassing? The footpath lies higher up the park." " I know it. Sir Cuthhert. I have missed my way, that is all." " No one can do that who keeps the foot- path." " I plead guilty to having quitted it," said Oliver. Sir Cuthhert looked at him as he spoke in that sort of silent, angry amazement which proud men, living in loneliness, often feel when their privacy is invaded as they think rudely. " May I ask your reason for knowingly intruding on my grounds?" he said at length with great stiffness. 14—2 212 'Forgotten Lives. "Certainly, Sir Cuthbert. I fancied I saw a young lady, a guest of my sister's, standing by the side of the pond yonder, and I ran down the abrupt descent to speak to her." A swift shadow passed over Sir Cuth- bert's face ; his voice broke into a tone of sarcasm. " It is singular, Mr. De Beauvoir, your fancy could so deceive you. Nothing would be more impossible than the presence of a guest from Bosanken in the grounds of Caerlerrick." " Pardon me. Sir Cuthbert ; strange as it may appear to you, and I confess to me also, I certainly saw the lady — or, to speak with strict correctness, I saw her reflection in the water." Sir Cuthbert listened with that shadow on his face growing white and angry. His voice took a harsh and abrupt tone. " It was an illusion — a passing cloud — the shadow of a tree." " Those shadows do not speak," said Oliver, smiling confidently ; " this one an- swered when I called." " When you called !" And Sir Cuthbert Forqoitcn Lives. 213 lost his politeness. " Pray what name did yon call ? Who is it has dared " But he stopped here, checking his anger by a supreme effort of self-control. " I called ' Barbara/ " returned Oliver. '' Barbara !" broke in Sir Cuthbert ; ''there is no one of that name here." " I did not say there was/' replied Oliver, with all his careless ease cool about him, " but I presume I may be allowed to men- tion the name of my sister's guest. I am speaking of Miss Barbara Lethbridge/' The proud, hard lines on Sir Cuthbert's marred and saddened visage softened, the look of angry defiance on his brow passed away. " And was it this young lady whom you suppose you saw in my grounds ?" he asked. " Yes," said Oliver simply. '' And you did not see her distinctly ?" " No, but I heard her voice." At this answer Sir Cuthbert appeared to permit himself to be convinced, though a shade of anxiety or of doubt still lingered on his countenance. "She is Dr. Mordaunt Lethbridge's 214 Forgotten Lives. daughter, I think ?" he said in a quiet tone. "/believe so," returned Oliver, "but my sister has not always thought so." Sir Cuthbert was silent ; he even seemed inclined to move away and conclude this in- terview, but Oliver's next words stopped him. " You are aware, Sir Cuthbert, that strange messages, mad letters, have some- times reached my sister ?" " I have repudiated them all, Mr. De Beauvoir. I have answered that accusation times enouo-h. Your sister's husband is a scoundrel." " We will not discuss Bosperis now," said Oliver, serene and calm still in his graceful ease ; " if we did perhaps we should not quarrel over him. Let us go back to those letters which you deny. Are you aware they all allude to the existence of a child who — who — although she would ruin my sister's name and position, ought nevertheless to be dear to her?" Oliver's ease deserted him ; he had grown flushed in speaking. Sir Cuthbert's worn face was white to ghastliness ; he leant his arm against a tree, as if he needed Forgotlen Lives. '215 support, and then lie waited, as thougli expecting Oliver to speak again. "It is a painful subject — one which, for my sister's sake, I would fain bury in obli- vion," said Oliver with an effort. " Have I named it ?'' asked Sir Cuthbert, in a voice broken by grief and anger. " Have I not borne the most horrible wrong one man can do to another, and yet been silent ? Am I digging up the hideous past now, Mr. De Beauvoir, or is it you?" ''Sir Cuthbert, I never had my sister's full confidence till yesterday; then she showed me those mad letters." '' Of which. I know nothing, sir." " ISFevertheless they come from Caerler rick," persisted Oliver; "and you must acknowledge that while they come my sister can expect no peace. They exasperate Bosperis to fury." "Do not name tliat man to me !" said Sir Cuthbert, with his hand in the air, and his eyes blazing with wrath. " Whosoever mentions liim insults me. I have tried to spare Lady Theresa all the sorrow I could. Surely no letters have reached her since my marriage ?" 216 Forgotten Lives. He spoke anxiously, a shade of tender- ness and sorrow in liis tone. " None," said Oliver. " And until yes- terday, I repeat, I never heard the details of this sad story, or knew how much my sister had suffered. I used to be rather on her husband's side." An expression of intense hate and scorn passed over Sir Cuthbert's face. " Then you were on the side of a villain. Is this painful conference over? I see no use myself in prolonging it. I bear you no personal dislike, Mr. De Beauvoir, but if Lady Theresa has given you her confidence, you must be aware there are reasons why there should never be any intercourse be- tween her house and mine." " I am aware of it, therefore I have won- dered the more at those mad letters, which have so cruelly disturbed my sister's peace." Sir Cuthbert seemed about to interrupt him here, but his raised hand dropped again, and he held his peace. "And above all," continued Oliver, "I have wondered at the persistent allusion in them to a child, whose existence would bring her such bitter and dreadful pain, and Forgoiten Lives. 217 force her, perhaps, to acknowledge all the misery of her present position/' " Say shame ! — shame to us all ! I would have exposed that villain — that hereditary enemy of my house — years ago, but for the shame of it." And Sir Cuthbert's out- stretched angry arm fell down suddenly. " Yes, I have been forced into silence out of mercy to Lady Theresa and myself. Why are we talking of this matter now ? Is it wise ? The very trees and stones have ears for scandal. As for the child, she is dead. It is madness, all madness, in those letters." " I am relieved to hear you say so," said Oliver, his careless ease sitting gracefully on him again. " I can tell my sister now that her dreadful fears may pass away, and her friendship for Miss Lethbridge need have no terrible shadow around it." " Miss Lethbridge !" repeated Sir Cuth- bert. " AVhat has this young stranger to do with our sad history?" " Is it possible," returned Oliver, with a keen and meaning look, " that you can plead ignorance of the fact that in the last wdld letter sent from Caerlerrick, Lethbridge was the name given as the one " He stopped, for Sir Cuthbert's wild and 218 Forgotten Lives. dreadful look led him to expect an outburst of madness or of fury, such as the country people talked of, as coming at times in sudden paroxysms on the unhappy man standing so ghastly white before him. But he was as silent as he was pale, and Oliver went on in a tone which he purposely made slow, firm, and quiet. "Yes, the letter gave positively the name of Lethbridge. And my sister's anxiety was so great, she sent me in search of Dr. Leth- bridge's daughter." "Without informing that man Bos- pens ^ " Without informing him." " I am thankful your sister spared me that." The indescribable accent of bitterness and hatred in which he spoke made Oliver pause. "Go on," said Sir Cuthbert. "You found the lady, I suppose ?" " I found her at a French school, with Miss Carteret." " Ah, then she is the same young lady who is the friend of my adopted daughter and heiress," said Sir Cuthbert, with a cer- tain emphasis. Forgotten Lives. 219 " The same." "And you liave no reason whatever to suppose she is any other than Dr. Leth- bridge's daughter ?" " Not the slightest in the world," said Oliver slowly. " And until I saw the letters I looked upon the whole thing as a delusion in my sister's mind." " Look upon it as that still, Mr. De Beauvoir. The maddest Bedlamite that lives could not write madder letters than those ; you own that ?" " I cannot say they are sane," returned Oliver with a slight shrug. " Then they are unworthy of belief, al- though they come from Caerlerrick," and Sir Cuthbert smiled mournfully. " I have my mad moments at times, as we all have more or less. Beg your sister to put those poor documents in the fire and forget them. There is no truth in them — there is no child of that unhappy union living. The daugh- ter of Lady Tregethas is my heiress." He raised his hat and moved away a step, then came back and asked a question with the air of a man who seeks to make assur- ance doubly sure. " Mr. De Beauvoir, excuse me. You said 220 Forcjotten Lives. just now you saw this young lady, Miss Lethbridge, in my grounds ; have you ever known her to venture hither?" "No, never till to-day." The shade of anxiety, the quivering look in the eyes, came back as Sir Cuthbert heard the answer. ''But she spoke to you," he observed. " May I ask what she said ?" Oliver smiled. The thought struck him that Barbara's words were tinged with the Caerlerrick lunacy, and he could scarcely repeat them to the half-mad baronet with- out being suspected of a covert sarcasm. " I fear," he said, " that Miss Lethbridge took advantage of standing on haunted ground to play off a jest on me. She told me she was dead — or lying dead at home — those were her words. I hope you will be- lieve that I am far from meaning a jest in repeating " The sudden change in Sir Cuthbert's face stopped him. One of those wild paroxysms of passion, for which he was celebrated and feared, had seized him, and turned him to a maniac. '' Are you mad — are we all mad," he cried, " that you dare to tell me such a story ? It Forgotten Lives. 221 was an illusion — a lie ! You saw no one at the pool." "It was Barbara Lethbridge's voice, or her ghost's, that I heard,'' returned Oliver steadily. " As to seeing any one, I will not persist in the fact of my eyesight since it annoys you. For the rest, I believe I am tolerably sane, and no man ever gives me the lie twice." He turned on his heel and departed, much disgusted with this conclusion to his inter- view with his gloomy neighbour. " Stop !" cried Sir Cuthbert's voice quaver- ingly, " you are going wrong ! That path will lead you to the haunted pool. You are right ; it is haunted, and you, Mr. De Beau- voir, have been made the victim of one of those hallucinations that cheat at times the strongest brain. On returning to Bosanken you will find Miss Lethbridge has never visited this place." He was courteous and himself as'ain except for a little wildness in his deep-set eyes, and a slight quivering of the lip. Oliver, however, beneath liis coolness felt angry, and so indulged himself in sarcasm. " I have no doubt. Sir Cuthbert, halluci- nations may occur at Caerlerrick, but not to 222 For (/often Lives. me. And whoever heard of speech accom- panving them ? Ghosts so rarely find a voice." " True, true. And you are sure it was her voice — Barbara Lethbridge's, I mean?" ''Quite sure." ''Ah!" said Sir Cuthbert with a deep-' drawn breath. " Tell her not to come again, will you? She might be frightened. The pool is haunted, sir, though you scoff at the thought. Tell her not to come. There are days for strangers, when they can come safely to Caerlerrick. Other days let them keep away." " I scarcely need that remark, Sir Cuth- bert," said Oliver, applying it too hastily to himself. "My intrusion was an accident. Nevertheless, I confess I had resolved to see you on the subject of those letters, and I am glad to have had the opportunity of receiving your assurance that they are all a madness." '' Ah ! ah ! all a madness — a miserable mad- ness. Good morning, Mr. De Beauvoir." " Good morning, Sir Cuthbert Tregethas," returned Oliver with grave courtesy. Then as he walked away swiftly his lips broke into a smile. 'Forgotten Lives. 223 '' The whole thino- is mad/' he said. " I begin to iDelieve Bosperis again, and to won- der why Theresa troubles herself with any- thing coming from such a nest of lunacy." . He looked back an instant to see Sir Cuthbert in the same place, still pointing anxiously to the road he must take in order to reach the footpath. CHAPTER XIII. LIVER DE BEAUYOIR was in a nervous mood when he neared the ruined chapel, where for many evenings past he had secretly met Rose Carteret. The perplexity and vacillation of his mind were extreme. Till to-day the mystery, the risk and folly of these meet- ings had amused him ; till to-day he had deceived himself with the idea that he was doing this for his sister's sake, and to gain from Rose the secret at Caerlerrick would be to restore her peace. But now that Theresa had confessed the cause of her unhappiness, now that she had named her dreadful suspicion and fear, he knew himself mistaken. Moreover, another doubt stirred liis easy, careless heart, and added to the perplexity of his thought. Was he not risking all the wealth pro- mised to Rose ? Might not Sir Cuthbert change his purpose concerning her if he Forgotten Lives. 225 discovered these clandestine meetings and their object? This question somehow to- day put things before him in a new light, and it struck him with a force, not felt before by his careless nature^, that no circum- stances whatever could excuse his making a spy of Eose. " By Jove ! now I have seen the old fellow I can't go on with it. T wont let Rose tell me another w^ord. It is downright treachery to make her a spy on him, his in- tentions towards her being so generous. I might ruin her prospects altogether (and perhaps my own, whispered some inner thought unspoken). I must stop this en- tirely.'' He finished with a new kind of fear, and lagged somewhat in his walk. " I wish I had left this buried mystery alone," he said. "It is better never to rake up these old things. Theresa should have been frank wdtli me sooner. The old mad- man writes the letters himself to annoy Bosperis, and for revenge. I can't wonder he wants revenge : he almost owned to the letters. Yes, and really it is very w^ell of him to keep quiet as he does, considering the cause he has to hate Bosperis. It would VOL. II. 15 226 Forgotten Lives. be rather odd if / were to marry bis adopted daughter — v/ith his consent, though ; these runaway matches always end ill. Ah 1 there's Eose ; and I am half an hour behind time." Eose was standing like a picture, framed by a Gothic arch, and having for her back- ground broken pillars, deep shadows, and climbing ivy. Her bright face, her sunny hair, her daint}^ shape, all took a more fervent colour and beauty from these sur- roundings, and Oliver for the first time ad- mired her frankly, without that comparison with Barbara usually latent in his mind. " I am late," he said as he came towards her. '* Don't be angry ; I was detained on the road ; I have been talking to Sir Cuthbert." Eose laughed at this, and shook her head in utter disbelief. " Why not say you met Sir Malins and talked to him ? I should accept that as a better excuse. It is more likely in ghostly old Caerlerrick than your having speech with Sir Cuthbert." " Perhaps I have seen the ghost as well," returned Oliver. Forgotten Lives. 227 " I would scarcely venture to deny it if you said so. Was it Sir Malins' ?" " No ; tlie gliost of a lady — the ghost of Barbara." And Oliver laughed a little uneasily. " Barbara in the flesh you mean/' re- sponded Eose. "Now I understand your detention on the road." There was disdain in her voice and on her face, and she withdrew within the arch, Oliver following her quickly. '' Listen, Eose," he said gravely : " I have an odd adventure to tell you." '' I want to hear none of your adventures ; tell them to Barbara." And so saying, Eose sat down upon a fallen cornice, and dug up weeds with the point of her parasol. Her long eyelashes rested on her flushed cheeks, a tiny frown sat on her brow, her red lips pouted a little ; she looked very pretty. '' I prefer telling my adventure to you,'' said Oliver, with all the ease imaginable in his voice and manner, as he seated himself by her side. *' Don't dig up worms, Eose — I hate them." '' I rather like the in," says Eose ; " they 15—2 228 Forgotten Lives, are so helpless, and they can't worry and bully one." " At all events now you are making them bully me. I declare I wont bear it. I confiscate the parasol." He seized her hand and held it fast, Eose at first struggling prettily, and yielding at last with a little demure flash of provocative love glancing from the corner of her eye and vanishing as though it had never been. Oliver stared at her, wanting to see this again, but it did not come, though he kept his gaze fixed on her in steady hope full half a minute. At the end of that time he was not sure he had caught the look aright. She was an odd, tantalizing, uncertain girl. He scarcely knew if he should be serious with her or not. As for her, he believed she was laughing at him. His hold on her hand relaxed. A little sharp silence fell between them ; the light rained down pins and needles ; all the shadows shook with wicked glee ; there was a hot glare upon the white stones. Oliver started up, or tried to start, but the tiny pressure of small white fingers on his palm held him fast, and sent an electric shock bounding through his Forgotten Lives. ~~0 veins. Pie turned and caught that look again, drawn back quicker than liglit could follow, but he had seen it, and stooping, lie laid his brown beard against the rosebud face, and took a long kiss from trembling lips. Silence again. Only this time the silence is delicious for sweetness, for triumph, for love, and Eose thinks the dream of her life is come to her, and her heart bounds against her side in great beats of victory. Then Oliver presses her bright sunny head upon his shoulder — he has taken off her hat with all its feathers and flowers as a thing not wanted in love-making — and, with a smile in his eyes, he rains down kisses on her hair, or parts it softly back from her flushed, shy face. " I think you care for me a little, Eose," he wliispers. '•' Yes," she answers, and her eyes glance up at his, and draw his lips to hers agaiii swiftly as a magnet. At this moment there is a rustle in the ruins, as though a bird flew away, or a bough were shaken in the wind, and dead leaves fell wistfully. 230 'Forfjoiten Lives, The smile dies away from Oliver's too- bright eyes ; he lifts his head and listens eagerly. *' Can there be any one here, Eose ?" he says. '' Impossible. No one ever comes to this lonely place but you and I." " Nevertheless I fancied I heard some one down there. Let me go and see." " Down there !" repeats Eose, retaining him with both hands clasped upon his arm ; " that is a part of the ruins where no one ever goes. It is full of sting-nettles and snakes. I would not let you go exploring there for — for twenty kisses." His eyes meet hers again, and before her eyelids fall she has made his heart beat fast, and brought forgetfulness to his brain of all things save herself. "Grive me the kisses and I'll stay," he says, as his lips break into a smile just as her glance falls, and the burning crimson of her cheek meets the long dark lashes of her eyes. "I'll give them in twenty days," she answers ; *' one a day, if you'll take the trouble to come for them." " Here ? No, Eose ; we ought not to Forcjoiten. Lives. 231 meet here any more. I am getting serious ; we ouglit not, indeed." Eose lifts her fringed eyelids in amaze- ment, and there is a shade of anger in her voice. " YoH ought not to reproach me with coming here. I might lose life and good name for it. I have risked all that for your sake." " Now don't be vexed, Eose. Is not that precisely the reason why I think you ought not to run such risks again ?" " If I don't mind, why should you ? The truth is, you are afraid of vexing Barbara." She puts a hand's-breadth distance be- tv/een herself and him, and looks lovely as ih.Q angry colour flashes over her face. " Nonsense ! Barbara is a fish, an icicle, a veritable stick from the North Pole com- pared to you." "You say all that just to please me, but you could stop talking to her for half an hour on your way, and keep me waiting for you. " I did not talk to her. I can't say I even saw her. It was only her ghost I caught a glimpse of." "In a riding-habit, on horseback, and fly- 232 Forgotten Lives. ing like the wind ?" says Eose, glancing up at him a little curiously. " Nothing of the kind, Eose. If you'll listen seriously I'll tell you fche story. If not, I'll be quiet." Eose listens, and her attention gradually grows earnest, her eyes burn steadily on his face with no love-light in them, but with something of terror and pain. " You frighten me," she says in a very low voice. "That's the Caerlerrick ghost you saw at the Dead-Man's Weir, and she never comes except when some one is going to die." "I'll stake my head on it she was no ghost," Oliver answers, laughing, '*' though some one at Caerlerrick may be going to die for aught I know." Then he sees Eose is very pale, and a grave A^exed air passes over his own face. " So you have a touch of craziness in you too," he says, trying to jest. " It is the Caerlerrick air, I suppose. Being shut up in that old fortress makes you weak and superstitious, Eose." " Why should Barbara come to the Dead- Man's Weir?" asks Eose, with eyes still Fon/otfen Lives. 233 fixed and frightened. " That's the pool where Eose Behenna drowned herself, you now. " I don't know. 1 hate old legends. I am not superstitious and poetical. Let us talk of sometliinor else." " No, no, I want to tell you that — that I thought I saw the ghost of Eose Behenna one night mj'self." " You are the last person in the world I should deem capable of seeing ghosts;" and Oliver laughs again, and passes his hand over her face as though trying to take the shadow off he saw resting there. " Well, T saw this one. I Avas asleep, and dreaming of Barbara oddly enough, and waking suddenly I fancied she wa^ in my room. Of course in a moment, as I grew more awake, I thought this was only a fancy, and I turned to go to sleep again, and at that instant I saw a figure move from my bedside and vanish." " It was your mother, or one of the ser- vants," Oliver says carelessly. Eose shakes her head solemnly. "No. I asked them all." " Then you were dreaming still, or some 234 Forgotten Lives, one walks in her sleep at Caerlerrick like Fatima." Kose is looking down with that shade of fear still a little pale upon her face ; but she brightens on hearing Fatima's name, and smiles, " She is going to be my visitor," she says. " She is positively coming to our spectral old castle." " I am glad of it, Eose. She will be a better companion than ghosts." " Ah, you ought not to laugh now you have seen the family spectre yourself." *' I saw Barbara, I tell you ! Spectres only point and glare, and wave their arms mysteriously ; they don't speak." " I might as well say I saw Barbara by my bedside," persists Rose. " My ghost was as much like her as yours. And it is just as probable she should be in my room as at the Dead-Man's Weir." What is there in these few words that suddenly strikes Oliver quite cold with a ghastly fear, a strange suspicion that runs chilly through all his veins ? His brain staggers beneath the thought that has come upon him so unawares, like an unexpected blow. He sets Eose aside like a feather, he Forgotten Lives. 235 forgets her, as lie rises and walks to and fro pondering and weighing facts and shadows in his shrinking mind. "What is the matter?" Eoseasks testily. Her voice reaches him as in a dream ; hut it recalls him to himself; he comes hack to her hastily. '' The matter is, Eose, I want to ask you a few questions." " The old affair, I suppose," Eose answers. " You want to know why we live like dragons and owls. Well, I can't tell you. I have nothing to reveal to-day, any more than on the other days we have met." " See here, Eose," Oliver says gravely ; " after I had spoken to Sir Cuthbert to-day — who is a gentleman, whatever else he may be — I made up my mind never to ask you another question." " Why not ?" interrupts Eose blankly. " I thought it unfair to you and to him," continues Oliver, " to make you the instru- ment, perhaps, to — to injure him." Eose only laughs. She has not heart enough to care whether any deed of hers hurts Sir Cuthbert or no. Oliver perceives this with a half sigh, and feels he must say plainly she might injure herself. 236 ForgoUen Lives. "You know, Eose,your stepfather — whose intentions towards you seem ver}^ generous — might alter his will if he discovered you— you told any of his secrets to me. Therefore, my dear girl" — and here he smoothed down the warm white fingers lying in his — '^ don't answer any of my questions if you think it will be against your own interest to do 53 SO. As Eose gazes at him, taking in the meaning of his words, a look of great amuse- ment sparkles on her face, and she laughs out pleasantly. '' Do you think I v^^ould have told you any Caerlerrick secrets at a risk to myself? Of course I would not. But I risk nothing. Sir Cuthbert cannot alter what he has done. He has executed some deed — I don't know the grand legal name of it — by which he gives all his lands to mamma and me at his death. He has only left himself power over a few thousands in the Funds, or out at mort- gage, or something like that. Oh ! I don't care in the least for Sir Cathbert's will. I heard the lawyers say the deed was irrevocable. So 3'OU see I am safe, no matter what I do." Safe ! poor little Eose ! She said this Iciughing, not knowing she vv^as on the brink of a precipice. Forgoiten Lives. 237 Her frank selfisliness, lier cold ingrati- tude, brought a strange sensation to Oliver's nerves. He felt as if he were playing with a leopard, and a thought of Barbara ran re- morsefully through his heart. " Well, Eose, since you are safe, answer as quickl}^ as you please. Have you ever traversed Caerlerrick from roof to cellar?" " I should think not ! — the horrid, ram- bling, damp old place. It would take me a fortnight to do it ; and I have told you before there are lots of dilapidated rooms never used." " And never opened ?" " yes, on show days. The visitors like best to poke about in these old places, so mamma gives the housekeeper the keys then." " She keeps them all other times herself?" Eose nods ; her eyes are watchful of him, thoug^h he does not know it. " Does she give all the keys ?" *' How can I tell?" Eose says. " Why do you ask such odd questions ?" He cannot tell her why, and his thoughts rush back to Bosanken, to Barbara, to his pale sad sister, and his heart beats fast and painfully. " Never mind their oddness, Eose. Now 23 S Forgotten Lives. tell me — is that old curious secret room always kept shut up ?" "Of coarse it is," Eose returns, "except on show days. Who do you think ever wants to go into it, except those stupid staring visitors ? As for them, that's the place of all others they most want to see." " Ah, to be sure," Oliver says with a be- wildered air. "And the lamp which swings down the dismal stairs is kept lighted for them every Wednesday," continues Eose. " Have you never seen it lighted on any other day ?" Eose opens her eyes very wide and rumi- nates. " Yes, I think I have ; but very seldom. The oddest thing about the room is the bell." "The bell?" "Yes, the ghost bell— Sir Malins' bell. His skeleton gets up and rings it some- times." " Be serious, Eose." " I am serious enough. We are all serious when that bell rings, I can tell you. Mamma gets v/hite as death when she hears it. In fact, the sound of it scares us all." Forgotten Lives. 239 " Who rings it ?" Oliver asks sharply. "The bell is not rung without human agency, Eose." " "Well, I used to think the Eaven rang it till to-day." " Till to-day ?" Oliver repeats, hanging on her accents breathlessly. '' Yes, I thought she did it in her crazed way to frighten us. But to-day I was talk- ing to the mad old thing in her room, when it ranc: risrht over our heads." Oliver's eyes are fixed upon her face in such earnest eagerness to hear more that Eose laughs a little, then shudders, she knows not why. " Sir Mahns' bell is hung in the Eaven's room — Eose Behenna's room," she says in explanation. "It turned me cold when I heard it ringing. It seemed so ghostly, and it has such an odd sweet silvery sound. There is no other bell in the castle like it." " And who rang it?" persists Oliver. Eose shrugs her shoulders in her pretty French way before she answers. " Sir Malins. The bell communicates with the secret room and no other." Oliver shakes his head. " That must be a mistake," he says. 240 Forrjoffeu Lives, " But I assure you it is not. It is only the old velvet bell-pull hanging in that room which can ring that bell." " Then there were visitors at Caerlerrick to- day who dived into the skeleton chamber?" " It is Friday/' Rose says with quiet con- tempt for the supposition. "Are you quite sure the bedridden old crone you call the Raven, did not ring the bell by some wicked trick?" " I am as sure as I can be of anything. I used to suspect her terribly; but to-day her dreadful old hands were both clutching me fast when the bell sounded, and fright- ened her into letting me go." " Then the bell is rung by the ancestral rats," Oliver observes, trying to laugh, with his face quite pale. " If so, then why does it not ring offcener ? And toJi^ is it aliDays ansivered?'^ And bending forward Rose shows him the paleness of his own face reflected in the whiteness of hers. "Answered! Who answers it?" And with one great heart-beat Oliver stills his agitation, and tries to look mere calm curio- sity at Rose. " That's what terrifies me," she says in a For(joUen Lives, 241 whisper. '' I am afraid I ouglit not to tell you, but mamma answers it I am cer- am. " How do you know ? Tell me quickly." His nervous grasp is on her hand, he draws her closer to his side, and presses her head on his bosom and kisses cheek and chin. Eose cannot resist kisses, though an ugly whisper of her treachery runs through her brain from ear to ear like a thread of pain. She tells him, brokenly, how she had fol- lowed her mother this very day. '' And when I got to that ancient part of the house where Sir Malins' room lies, I found the corridor locked against me." He draws this from her by many ques- tions. He kisses her again. "Is this all, Eose?" " No ; I listened. I heard the creak of the long chain of the lamp swinging over the narrow stairs. Then I felt sure mamma was gone to Sir Malins' room to answer the ghost bell." She clings to Oliver as she speaks in deadly fear — not of this ghostly secret — but of her own treachery, which, now she has spoken it, seems to grip her heart with terror. VOL. II. 16 242 Forgotten. Lives. " If Sir Cuthbert knew I had told you this — if he knew !" she whispers. " He shall never know/' Oliver says, and for a moment remains quite silent. Then, as if he had not spoken, he observes in a low voice — "So the lamp can be lighted at a moment''s notice, Eose?" " Of course it can. There is always oil and wick in it for those silly sightseers." In the fever of his thoughts Oliver rises, and strides up and down among weeds and fallen ruins. Eose sits drooping on the cornice, half frightened, half vexed. She is doubtful, uncertain, watchful — her eyes swim in jealous tears. What if he beguiles her to this place only to ask these tiresome questions — only, in fact, for some object of his own in which she has no part ? Why, then how wearisome it would be to come ! And Eose hides a big yawn with her little hand. Oliver sees the action, sees the pretty sulkiness in the drooping figure, in the de- jected curves of the crimson lips, and he returns half smiling to his place by her side and puts his arm round her waist again. But somehow there is no life in his caress, the electricity is gone out of it, and his arm Forgotten Lives. 243 might be a dead stick and Eose herself a tree for auo-ht he knows or feels. " So there is no mystery at all about the secret room," he says carelessly, " except the bell?" " How can there be?" Eose returns crossly, " when every gaping rustic for miles round knows of it and comes to see it ? Is not that horrid, dismal, little dungeon and Sir Malins' skeleton the grand show of Caer- lerrick?" "No doubt. And is it a curious place? Can I come and see it, Eose ?" " yes, if you like. If you come on the right day you wont be refused admittance. Then you can see all the house if you choose, except Sir Cuthbert's private apartments. He never lets strangers go there." " Does he not ? Why not, then?" Oliver asks eagerly. " Because he does not choose to be turned out of his rooms by a gaping, chattering crowd, I suppose," Eose answers. " If they come near him even he gets into a terrible fury." " Is he such a tyrant ?" '' Hush ! don't ask me," Eose says, look- ing round the ruins in a scared way. "I 16—2 244 Forgotten Lives. dare not describe his temper to you ; it is gloomy, mad, miserable ; and mamma bears it all so quietly, as if she were full of sorrow and pity for him. I feel differently. Oh, you don't know what a life it is for me ! Tears of self-pity fill her eyes, and her little white teeth press upon her lip to still its trembling. " Shall I take you away from it all, Eose ?" And Oliver's brown moustache like a soothing charm stills the shaking lips. " Are you in earnest ?" she says, looking upwards into his eyes. '' Will you take me one day ? Do you love me, or do you love Barbara ? Now tell me." And seizing his hand she lays it against her soft cheek. What can a man-flirt do in such a case but swear that the eyes looking into his are the brightest, and the lips so near him are the sweetest ? Fickleness has a thousand little terrors lurking round it lying in wait, ready to spring upon a man while he drinks in the pleasures of incon- stancy ; and Oliver felt some of these even as his silken words poured smoothly over his companion's rosy little ears — Forfjotten Lives, 245 " Heaven ! were man Bnt constant he were perfect : that one error Fills him with faults, makes him run through all th' sins." " Why sliould we talk of Barbara ?" asks Oliver, with liis heart springing back to her as he speaks. " You are a little Egyptian, always bringing a skeleton to your feasts. I wont hear a word of Barbara. I am going to seal up your lips " " No, no ; you have not answered me. I will be answered. Do you care for Barbara ?" " Oh, immensely ! Because she is your friend, you know." " That is chaff," Eose says gravely, still keeping her face averted ; "I don't choose to be answered with chaff." " I'll answer you with a kiss if you will let me. At all events I have never kissed Barbara." This is perfectly true, but the words or the tone sting Eose into anger. "It is easy to know why. You don't dare ! that's the reason." " Nonsense, Eose ; don't let us quarrel about Barbara." " I am not quarrelling ; but I will not be laughed at and chaffed with as if I were a 246 Forgotten Lives. girl selling sandwiches ! I know," continues Eose passionately, " I have done wrong to meet you here alone and in secret so often ; but I have done it at your earnest request, and it is cruel in you to despise me for it. " My dear Eose '' But Eose drags her hand from his grasp, and stands before him flushed and tearful. " Don't deny it. You despise me because I have come here to help you to save your sister from sorrow. And for this you are impertinent to me. Oh, I understand it all ! Barbara is too sacred a person to be touched, but Eose Carteret one may flirt with and laugh at as much as one pleases. Now I'll never come here again to see you ! I'll never tell you anything more about Caerlerrick ! And henceforth I'll hate you with all my heart !" Never was man so astonished as Oliver. This was one of the little surprises and terrors that spring upon an inconstant man at times when he is most at ease, and his confidence in his own powers is at its height. He tried to laugh, but an infinite vexation was tingling through his veins : his gallant ease forsook him, his face grew white. There was Forgotten Lives. -47 so much at stake, lie could not aiFord to offend Eose. He cauglit her as she reached the arch- way, and held her with a strong hand. " You shall not go away angrily, Rose ! Tell me you do not mean what you say — tell me you'll see me here again to- morrow." " IN'o, I will not !" Eose says, trying with all her little strength to free her arm from his grasp. " You forget who I am, Mr. De Beauvoir. Y^ou forget I am the daughter of Lady Tregethas. Let me go ! At least I am as worthy of respect as Barbara Lethbridge." He releases her, and she stands still, flushed, crimson, panting, her eyes^swim- mino^ in hot tears. " Barbara again !" Oliver says in a tone of indignant reproach. " Are you angry because I treat her with cold respect ? Do you wish me to behave to her as I do to you ? A smile begins to tremble at the corners of Eose Carteret's lips, but she keeps it back sternly. Oliver pursues his advantage — " Miss Lethbridge's American lover, of 248 Forgoiien Lives. whom you told me so long ago, is expected daily at Bosanken. Ah ! you may look surprised. I did not invite him, you may be sure. It was Bosperis. Nevertheless, I shall really be quite glad to see him ; he'll take the trouble off my hands of escorting his lady-love about the country. As my sister's guest — though it may be a bit of a bore — I have been obliged to be civil to her. As for you, Miss Carteret, if I do sometimes forget that you are the richest, loveliest heiress in the county, I can't help it. Good-bye, then, since you wish it. I'll go and sin no more !" He holds out his hand with the gravest respect ; the girl's lips begin to tremble. " Oliver !" she says passionately. " Miss Carteret !" he answers. '' Is it really true that Barbara's cousin is coming to Bosanken ?" " Quite true." ''And he likes Barbara?" "No doubt he does. In fact, I am sure he does." It costs Oliver a curious effort to say this, but he has self-command to hide it and smile. Forgotten Lives. 249 " I know Barbara loves him," Eose says. *'I told you so at Blois." " I remember it. I forget nothing you tell me," he returns, " not even a bit of romance." The twang of sarcasm in this floats by Eose without touching her. She is too full of self to notice it. " So I am silly to be jealous of Barbara?" she says. " There, let us be friends." "My dear Eose, I am delighted always to be your friend. It is not I who quarrel." He is a little cold as she lays her hand upon his shoulder, and turns a red-rose cheek towards him inviting a kiss of peace ; but his need of her aid, and his latent, half- formed resolves concerning her, make him seem warm enough. '' There, I must go now," Eose says, disengaging herself from his arm. "It is nearly seven : mamma will be waiting dinner." " And the grim Sir Cuthbert does not like that ?" with a detaining hand on hers. " Oh, he never dines with us ! He has dinner laid in his own dining-room, and eats 250 Forgotten Lives. it when lie likes, at the oddest hours, ever so late sometimes." The grasp on her hand involuntarily tightens. Oliver's pulse bounds ; she has forged, without knowing it, another link in a strange chain of thought. " So he feasts like an ogre by himself," Oliver says. '' And at night," Eose continues. " That's more like a ghoul, is it not ? His table is never cleared till the morning, and no ser- vant ever waits on him ; everything re- quired is laid at once. Now, do let me go." '' Xo, no," and his hand grows very hot. " I want a promise first that you'll come again to-morrow.'- '*'If I am not watched I will. Oh, Oliver ! I am so afraid lately that Sir Cuthbert suspects me." " Are you ? No, it is impossible. Come to-morrow and tell me what he had for dinner this evening. Take a look at his rooms before you go to bed to-night." *' What nonsense ! Audit is not so easy to do either as you think. Oh, if he should suspect me !" '' What then? What can he do ? The deed you say is safe." Forgotten Lives. 251 " But 1 am not," Eose says in a whisper. " I am in earnest — I should really be afraid for my life if I were found out." He feels her heart beat as she presses against his side ; and stories he has heard of Sir Cuthbert's mad moods go darting through his brain a little painfully. Then he reassures himself in words to Rose. '^ There is no danger of our conversations being guessed at, even if our meetings are discovered, so make yourself easy, Eose. Only 1 will say this, if you feel any real reason for fear write to me instantly, and — and I'll take you out of danger." " Mind, that's a promise !" Eose says eagerly. " I could not stay a day at Caer- lerrick if I were exposed to Sir Guthbert's rage." " Neither shall you." He says this, not thinking how much his promise means to a girl who fancies herself beloved. " I shall not be afraid now I have you to fly to," she answers. " And besides, in a few days Blanche will be here ; she will be a great help to me." " Ah ! I had forgotten what a head Fatima has for finding out secrets. Advise 252 Forgotten Lives. her to recover her powers of somnambuHsm, Eose, do. She'll have splendid o23portu- nities at Caerlerrick." " I'll do anything you wish, and every- thing you tell me. Only " And Eose gives him a quick, eager glance, and then looks down and stops. " Only what, Eose ?" " You remember how the legend finished you told me at Blois. If the damsel helped the knight, he was to love her with all his heart." "And so he will." And bending his head Oliver's kiss fell lightly on her lips — lightly as his light word, which he thought nothing of as it faded away in the summer air. But Eose was trembling with triumph. She had won her friend's lover, through treachery to her, and a double treachery to her mother and the home that sheltered her ; but no thought of this disturbed her cruel joy. As she and Oliver stood together she put her slender arms about him, and drew his face again to her burning cheek, and whispered in his ear. The words she said were few, but they turned him pale and cold. For (/often Lives. 253 He put her gently back and stood a moment silent, lookins: in her face. " If you liave the com'age," he said at last, " 1 answer yes. And if you succeed, Eose, I'll stand by you, and — and yes^ 111 love you all my life." " The die is cast," his thought said within him as he spoke. " I have drifted on into this, not meaning it. Well, I could never marry a poor doctor's daughter — and if Barbara were " He stopped, and flung the thought from him as too wild to dwell on. " And Eose is very pretty and rich. The mad baronet can alter nothing. Hand- tied and tongue-tied, what can he do ?" A few words more, a kiss or two half- sadly given, some secret terror standing between their lips, and they say good-by and part. CHAPTER XIY. HE stillness of a close summer even- ing rests upon Bosanken : the deer in the park stand in the shade knee deep in bracken ; the kine have rushed to the river, and with drooping head and panting flank each poor horned beast bears the burden of the heat, and waits patiently the setting of the sun. Across the shrivelled mead the shadows stretch and flit ; the birds among the leaves are silent ; upon the hills the sheep huddle in timid crowds with plaintive beat ; the dog going home at the farmer's heels keeps close to him, and whines a little when his master speaks ; the village children have ceased to shout upon the common ; frightened birds liurry home to roost, and hide among eaves and ivy without a song. And in the midst of this death-stillness down goes the sun. Then great black clouds come flying from the west, and cover his dying glory with a For (/often Lives. 255 funereal pall, and from out tliis sable canopy shoots a sharp forked flame. A peal of thunder follows that rakes the sky as with a hundred cannon, and all the hills grow black, and every tree bows its head and trembles. Down by the river among tangled rushes and tall iris leaves, stands Ernest Bosperis, his fishing-rod lying by his side untouched, his face set hard in pained perplexity, the lines of his mouth rigid. As the glare of the lightning touches the water he looks up, and the first raindrop, like a tear from Heaven, falls upon his face. " My God 1 that aU this might end !" he says half aloud. " I for one should not care if the round world were split up to-day. Shall T break up 7ni/ world and bring all to light and judgment ! No ; Theresa is un- forgiving as — as a priest. And she would leave me instantly. I cannot part with her. No ! and I will not ! I have lied a thousand times to keep her with me, though she is an icicle, a rock on which my heart breaks every day, and yet I'd lie again a thousand times rather than she should drift away, my God ! free — free to take another man — some fellow with a priestly varnish on him who 256 Forcjotten Lives. lies like a hypocrite, not as I do, like an honest devil. No ! she shall never do it ! not while I have a hand to hold her and a tongue to lie with still. Yes, I'll keep ray wife. That woman was a she-devil ! Yes, talk of devils, what am I compared to her ? This is a blind world, and the laws it makes are blinder. A man should be free in such a case ; better tie him to a corpse than Ha ! that was a dangerous flash ! I hope Barbara is home." The thou2:ht hurries him. He shortens his rod, and with swift stride gets through briar and brake till he reaches the open park, where the rain falls on him in sullen drops heavy and slow, while the liglitning darts from the clouds in brighter flashes, and the peals of thunder come quick and sharp. A belt of pine wood lies between him and the house, and as he reaches it he sees, crouching against a tree in terror, a woman's figure, which turns towards him the grim stony face of Deborah. It is greyer and ghastlier than he has ever seen it, and a shrinking look in her hard eyes, as she turns away, startles him. "What is the matter ?" he cries out sharply. Forgotten Lives, 257 "Miss Letlibridge's horse has just gone by riderless," she says, and again her shrink- ing eyes, full of unwonted pity, just glance at liim and fall. " It was mad with terror. It went that way towards the stables. The girl is killed ; she must be killed." " Go to your mistress. Keep this from her till I return. Send men after me quickly." And as he says this with white lips, speeds up the long road, darkening in the storm, that leads to Caerlerrick. " It is a judgment. I knew it would over- take him in the end," murmurs De- borah. And as the rain pelts down on her grim figure she hurries to the stable where men have caught the frightened horse, and point- ing up the road she bids them fly after their master. " Take my cloak with you to bring her home in," she says, unfastening it from her shoulders. " She is dead, for certain. Ah ! she was bound to bring death to this house or the other." Murmuring this to herself, she goes slowly across the courtyard, with swift flashes of lightning flickering in the dark- VOL. II. 17 258 Forgotten Lives. ness above her, setting a seal of awful white- ness on her stony face. The man, holding the still trembling, plunging horse, looks after her with scared eyes. '' Look at her !" he says ; " she's the very picture of a witch. ' " And she es waun too, for sartain,'' returns the stable-boy, who is an old man of sixty, not overblessed with wits, and so has been kept a stable-boy for fifty years, not being fit for promotion. ''She've done this here wickedness to-day — as sure as I'm a living man she have." " Then she oft to be tookt up for murder," says the groom. " Ho ! ho ! Beelzebub — stand still." "Et's dodging Providence now, seemin' to me, giving a beast thic name," observes the old stable-boy piously. " Lor' Jem- mery cry! I hope the young lady edn.'t killed ; though I reckon we shud have a grand burying here — shudn't we?" '•' Well, I suppose we should," the groom answers thoughtfully. "And new black cloas, too?" " That foUeys, av coorse." " Lor,' now, 'tis a ill wind blaws nobody For (/oi ten Lives. 259 good, edn't it ? Well, and they've goet thic gaslily, ould, black cloak to bring the corpse home in. And little Tim Mousey down to Churchtown willmaake the coffin — doant 'ee reckon a wull ?" '; I'd sooner he maade ould Deborah's," responds the man, gazing after her till the darkness swallows her up. " But the elm isn't growed that'll hould she underground. Come 'long ; Beelzebub's quiet now — he can't do nothing more. The deed's done, and she that done it is out of sight. The hoss is like a lamb now." " Ah, ah !" returns the old stable-boy, following horse and man; "you are right, Dick. Churchyards cain't hould a witch, nor stout elm nuther." *' There's aunly waun thing that will hould she, and that's brimstone," responds Dick, entering the stable and shutting the door against the storm. " Better speak quietly. I've knowed her take a grudge afore now, and do things as bad as this against 'em." " What ! murder ?" asks the other, peer- ing forward his wrinkled face jusfc as a flash of lightning flamed across the window, filling the darkness with its blue light. " Well, if 'twas n't murder 'twas death, 17—2 2 GO Forgotten Lives. and there edn't much difference at ween they two," answers Dick, as the lightning once more shows to each, a white face and scared eyes, which vanish back instantly to dark- ness like ghost-faces coming and going in flame. " Do you mind when the aunly child that played about in this house, or ever will play, was drowned ?" "Ah, I mind it/' "Well, she comed here the very day of the funeral, didn't she ? She wasn't wel- come, but she stayed, just as a sarpint stays in a hole, because folks is feared to rout him out." " Marcy on us, Dick ! And master and my lady have never been the same since." "And never will be," returns Dick, as Ms face gleams out white again in the steely light of a fading flash. " And it's worse than murder to part man and wife, and sow the hatred she have in this house. If master knowed what I know " But here Dick stops and says, "Come up, old Beelzebub !" in a voice as shaky as if he were really entreating that individual to rise and reveal himself. " Ef maister knowed what you know!" Forgotten Lives. 201 repeats the ancient stable-boy eagerly. "What es it, Dick? Lor' ! I wish I had your larning and sperrit, I do." This useless wish Dick sets aside with a wave of the hand, then he leans upon his pick and says gravely — " Well, I do knaw this : she goes oftener to Caerlerrick than is good for paice and quietness. And what's more" — and here a great flash showed the white fear and hate upon the speaker's face — " she have been upon thic cursed ground this very day." " No ! have she ?" cries the old man in a shaking^ voice. "And who do she see there ?" " Who ? Why the man master most hates in the world — the man who parts him from his wife — Sir Cuthbert Tregethas to be sure." There is dead silence between them for a moment, as if each feared to speak another word. Then the poor old toothless stable- boy mumbles indistinctly — " Ah ! that's bad. That's wus than witchcraft. I'd tell measter if I was you." " Tell 'un ! We should have murder then, sure enough. There's letters come sometimes, you know, by witchcraft — they 262 Forgotten Lives. couldn't come else. She brings 'em. As sure as you and I shall die and be buried, she brings 'em to mj lady's hand." " Ah ! and the first letter corned just after the little boy was drowned, with a bunch of white flowers for his grave. I mind that well." '' This'll be as whisht a time as that," said Dick in a deep voice. '' Master and my lady both like Miss Lethbridge. That's why the ould witch have brought another death — another sorrow to lay at their door." There was no doubt of this in Dick's mind. He freighted the soul of the stony Deborah with these sins, without a misgiving of her power to commit them. '^Well, witch as she be now," said the antique stable-boy, " with her faace more like a dead woman's than a living waun, I mind her when she was as peart and spry as any maad in Churchtown. She lived at Caerlerrick then, and theer she was crossed in love ; her sweetheart runned away to furrin paarts, so I've heard tell. He was a Behenna — a maazed lot they Eehennas be." Forgot len Lives. ^C3 "Haarken, do'ee," burst in Dick; "I do hear voices !" "Aw, iss, so do I. They've found her for sartain. Poor young lady ! And there'll be a grand buryin', and aal of we dressed in new black cloas. "Well, the Lord's will be done, say I." " Let's go and see the corpse." And opening the stable-door with a hur- ried hand Dick rushes out into the pouring rain, and the wrinkled '' boy," piously calm, hobbles after him. The noise was only caused by Oliver de Beauvoir's return, and the servants pressing around him for news, when he could not even understand their questions. " Have you not met master, sir ? We fear Miss Lethbridge is killed. No one is to tell my lady. The horse came home crazed with terror, the bridle trailing, two of his shoes beaten off his feet. Master and all the men but two are gone out to search for the poor young lady." Oliver hears all this without uttering a word. A tightening of the heart, like a grasp of iron, keeps him dumb. The light love falls down before the stronger like a 264 Forgotten Lives. reed, and his fickle soul is pierced through and through with grief. " Where is the servant who attended Miss Lethbridge ?" he says at last. " She rode out alone, sir. She refused to let me go with her/' answers Dick. Oliver remembers now, with a pang, that Barbara had said nothing to liim of her in- tention to ride. " She feared I might think she wanted my escort," he says ; " and she knew I should not go. She has seen me stroll away alone every afternoon of late. If she had spoken I should have prevented her from riding alone. Why did she not tell me ? All other times she has told me her plans. Was she angry ? Was she jealous ? Good Heavens ! I have been a mad- xnan!" '' Are the men and your master on horse- back ?" he asks sharply. '' No ; on foot." "' Have you no orders to take a carriage up the road to — to bring her home in ?" "No, sir." " Bring one round quickly. I'll go after them myself." " Am I to drive, sir ?" " No. Get a horse saddled. You'll be Forgotten Lives. 265 wanted here — to ride for a doctor, I fear." He turns bis face away a moment, then says huskily, " Which wa}^ did they go ?" " Eight up the road to Caerlerrick." " Good ! Bring the carriage round quickly. I'll speak to Lady Theresa the while/' That grim woman Deborah was standing guard at his sister's door. Her lips were twitching nervously, her eyes were full of fear, the mask was off her face to-night, and every feature showed angry pain. To see her thus, without her stony look, was such a wonder that even Oliver was shaken, and said pityingly — " Let us hope the best, Deborah. I am sure she is not much hurt. I am taking a carriage with me to bring her home." " Hush !" she answers with finger on her lip. " My lady knows nothing beyond the fact that she has not returned. You'll never bring her back here ? There's others seek- ing for her who want her madly — to do her hurt perhaps. And only to-day I promised I would keep her safe." The harsh whisper in which she spoke died on her lips, she wrung her hands toge- ther, and pressed her grey face upon them with a bitter moan. Oliver did not heed 266 Forgotten Lives. her words — he could not stay to thmk about them now. '' You have a heart, Deborah," he said, " stony as you are." And he would have passed her, but her grim hard hand detained him. " I never loved but two people in my life, and they both forsook me. One was my lover — a fickle man like you — a man who could break twenty hearts with a laugh upon his lips. The other was a child I nursed and saw grow to a woman ; then she left me for a man who left her. I have halted him ever since. I have lived like a deadly ser- pent in his house, poisoning his life. I see by your ej^es you know my meaning. There, go to my lady if you will, but you had better not. She sleeps. The lightning frightened her, the heat overcame her. She sleeps. I gave her something to make her sleep. I do that sometimes when I know sorrow is near. Oh, it was the doctor's orders ; there's no cause for anger." Oliver withdrew his hand softly from the door, and looked the woman in the face. " Take care what you do," he said. " You have some reason of your own for drugging your mistress with sleeping draughts. If Forgotten Lives. 267 you touch my sister with your snake tricks I will not spare you — mind that !" " I've never done her harm. I hate him, not her. Is it better, or not, she should sleep quietly through all this ? I only do as her doctor bids me." The shrinking pain was in her ej^es again, her face looked cold and grey, as though she tried once more to harden it into stone. Then she crouched against the door, and held her hands up to hinder Oliver's entrance as he strode forward, determined now to see his sister. He set her aside with a strong, angry hand, and went in softly and looked at Theresa sleeping. Her fair lily face was tranquil, her breathing gentle, her whole attitude full of peace. " After all this is best for her,'^ Oliver said. '' The woman is right enough." He turned, and saw her watching him, rigid and stony as a statue with living hard eyes of fire. Somehow they told him some- thing, they showed him where to look, and he saw a letter lying by his sister's white, quiet hand, and had caught it up before Deborah's clutching, outstretched fingers could seize upon it, though she sprang like a snake new roused. 268 For (/ often Lives. Oliver was white with fury. " So you are in league with the madman !" he said, "It is for ,this you drug your mistress." " I am in league with no man." And, turning hard and cold, she set the mask upon her face again, and stood defy- ing him, silent and deadly. " I shall give this letter to your master." She smiled at this, a cruel smile, and gave him a mock curtsey, and beckoned him away with her hand. " Let her sleep on," she said as she closed the door softly ; " there's woe enough wait- insr for her when she wakes." " Who gave you this letter, woman?" " ril tell Mr. Bosperis, not you. Let him ask me when he returns, and I'll answer. Go and pick up your dead love, Mr. De Beauvoir, and find how dear it is now it is lost." Oliver was striding down the passage, but he stopped as these insolent words ran like fire through his ears, filling him up with rage. " How dare you ?" he cried, and stayed his speech, ashamed, angry, contemptuous of his antag^onist. Forgotten Lives. 269 " You will not find her in the road/' con- tinued Deborah. " Go to the ruined chapel ; it was there she went to-day." Her eyes were on him, devouring his pain, enjoying the great throb of agony which leaped from his heart to his face, striking it snow white ; and then, with a hard smiling sneer in them, she turned her eyes to the window, and pointed to the carriage await- ing him. He answered her not a word, but went out silently, took the reins in his chilled hands, and drove away with such a strange new burden on his numbed, fickle heart that he had no name for it ; and his thoughts within him were like rolling clouds with lightning breaking through, showing him some great terror. CHAPTER XV. A.R and near there were no tidings of Barbara. A little boy liad been picked up in the road insensible, and carried to his mother's cottage — doubt- less, people said, he had been knocked down by the horse in his mad career — but this child still lay senseless and in danger of death. Even if he recovered it would be many days before he could speak, supposing he had aught to tell. Peasants and labourers had seen Barbara riding towards Caerlerrick Woods ; none had seen her returning. So as night drew on the tired searchers whis- pered together that it must have been in the wood itself, through which there ran a bridle- path, that the terror-struck horse had thrown his rider ; and she was lying nov/ in some dark spot which they could scarcely hope to light upon in black night and storm. Hard though it might seem, they must wait now for daylight, and be thankful that it could Forgotten Lives. 271 not tany beyond four Lours, and would bring hope and sunshine with it. This they said in subdued voices to Mr. Bosperis, and, listening to them at last, he turned homewards at midnight wearil}^ Oliver De Beau voir had not seen him or spoken to him. His lighter nature was struck helpless by this shock ; his faculties were like a broken jar — fragmentary, in- coherent ; his mind could form no purpose; his thoughts hurried to and fro in confusion, and instinctively he avoided the stronger man, who had known better both how to love and how to hate than he had. Instinc- tively, also, he threw the reins of the horses he drove to the first hand ready to receive them, while he went alone through the for- lorn and drenching rain to the ruined chapel. Here the storm met him at its height, and the wind and darkness were full of desperate thoughts and voices of pain. Through these he fought as he passed the broken arch, and hurried through the outer ruins to that more desolate portion where the weeds grew rankest, and a high wall shut out the stars. It was here he had heard that slight rustle, that wistful sound as of a human sigh, mingling with the swirl of 272 Forgotten Lives. leaves as though a woman's garment swept the grass. As he entered this sad place he breathed Barbara's name soft and low, and heard his own heart beat in answer, then the scared rustle of startled birds, and all was still. " Barbara ! Barbara !" he said again a little wildly. And right across tbe sky as he spoke gleamed a broad flame of lightning, showing the ruins empty and desolate, and close by his feet a few white rose-leaves scattered like faint flakes of snow. It was these made his heart quicken and throb, as, with a sud- den rush of pain through all his being, he remembered he had seen Barbara gather a white rose that morning, and put it in her bosom. She took it with her when she went riding ; it was a sign of her presence here ; he could disbelieve no longer that, whether willingly or unwillingly, she had heard some of his words that day to Eose. He was sure she had not heard many -, she would not stag to listen ; she liad left the ruins by some way unknown to him. He stood in the midst of the drenching rain irresolute, angry, full of mortified self-love, full of self-justification, and disgust and irony through it all coursing Forgotten Lives, 273 up and down his brain witli mocking voice. And breaking through all this, swift and strong as the lightning, came the fear that Barbara was dead. Dead ! And he could never atone. And he had loved her for three years : he knew it now. The conventionalities that had hemmed in his soul, the worldly scruples, the poor social distinctions that had seemed such strong fetters, fell before the majesty of death, and Love came down upon him like an armed man and avenged himself. It was with a white shadow on his face, set there in fear and pain, that Oliver by the glimmering starlight found his way to a low arched door which opened directly on the wood, on the side of the ruins opposed to that by which he had always entered with Eose. The chapel was dedicated to St. Michael, and stood, as all that saint's churches stand, on the brow of a hill, and was in fact a landmark to mariners at sea. The swift fresh wind from the Atlantic came upon him as Oliver left the shadow of the crumbling wall, and the lightning gleaming faintly athwart the sky, showed him crested waves leaping angrily inshore. He had never be- fore visited the side of the ruins looking VOL. II. 18 274 For (jot I en Lives. seawards, and he noted now with a sick fear how close upon the edge of the cliff the bridle-path ran, when it left the wood, and got npon tlie shaggy heath. If a horse became nngovernable here, there was small chance for a strong rider, none for a slight girl. So he thought of Barbara, lying down there among those great grey rocks, against which the waves were breaking with sullen roar. Well, he coald do nothing alone, and while darkness lasted ; he would carry his sick heart home and wait for daylight like the others. The road, when it left the cliiF, went down a steep, rugged hill into the fishing villag"e, which was dark and silent, then it skirted the park of Caerlerrick, and as Oliver came to the great gates he saw a carriage there w^aiting till they should be opened. The unwonted sight struck him with a sort of dull, incurious amazement, and as he passed he involuntarily gazed within, and saw Sir Cuthbert and a stranger. For an instant he drew back unwilling to be seen, the next he rushed forward, meaning to inquire for Barbara, even of Sir Cuthbert. But he was too late, the horses dashed rapidly through Forgotten Lives. 275 tlie gates, the servant who had opened them climbed to the box again, and in a moment the carriage disappeared beneath the dark canopy of trees Hke some funereal vision. Now it was Oliver thought of the letter lying in his pocket, and lie hurried on to Bosanken with a strange but vivid idea in his mind, that it would tell him something of Barbara. Although the letter was addressed to Theresa, might he not break the seal and read it ? No ! for if he did that he could never speak to Bosperis again. And the confidence his sister had reposed in him would be betrayed. So the letter must be given to her husband, and if there were tidino^s in it of Barbara — which seemed a wild thought — he would tell them.' The hall-door was open, showing how in fear and sorrow wonted order was forgotten, and Oliver came in without noise and closed it softly. Scarcely had he done so ere that grey woman Deborah glided from out an archway, and came towards him with her stony face hard as marble. " You have not given your sister's husband that letter?" she said with a sneer on her curled lip. 18—2 276 Forgotten Lives. " Not yet/' lie answered. " So you persist ? You cannot see there is sorrow enough in this house for to-night." " I persist." And he walked towards the great oak doors of the library, which, being scarcely closed, gave out a gleam of light which wrought a ghost upon the floor like Deborah's shadow, " Sir," she said, following him, " if you enter I enter likewise. They are both there — man and wife — but if we cross the threshold man and wife no more." Her words fell chill on him like snow- flakes, and he shook them off like light snow, yet entered with a thin, cold fear on his very heart. Pale and quiet. Lady Theresa sat upon a couch with a good book upon her knee. She was not reading : her eyes were on her husband. He sat in a large armchair, his head resting on his hands, his gaze fixed on the fire — for they had lighted brands on the hearth, because a night watch kept in fear chills the blood. He did not stir when he heard a step beyond him. " It is Oliver," said Lady Theresa in a quiet voice. Forgoiten Lives. 277 Then he bent his head a little lower on his hands. " We are waiting for daylight," he said, and bent lower still, and murmuring some- what about the fire being damnable, he gave a great shiver and sat silent. Lady Theresa glanced at him and then at her brother ; her eyes were brimful of pity, and all her face grey-white. " You have heard or seen nothing ?" she said. " Nothing." " Where have you been ?" " Past Caerlerrick, through the village, up the path by the cliff, and on to the ruined chapel in the wood." He reversed the order of his going ; some- how he could not have told it truly. '' The chapel ! Why the chapel ? Ernest went there first." "Ah! ask him," said Mr. Bosperis, suddenly turning round in his chair, and speaking in bitter wrath. " De Beauvoir, v\^hether this girl be dead or living, you shall never see her face again. You have played fast and loose with her heart. . You have acted like a fickle coward, neither willing to take nor leave. I have been a fool to let this go on 278 For (/of ten Lives. so long, knowing the blood the poor child has in her.'' He sank suddenly into his chair again, and thrust a flaming brand aside with his foot, musing with some dire thought settling down white upon his face. Oliver had grown red and his eyes blazed a moment, but liis sister's hand upheld, and her sad, pitiful face kept him silent. " You may take my words or leave them," continued Bosperis with that great shiver running through his frame again. " You don't know their meaning. You are a man without passions. Jealousy is a thorn-prick to you. The De Beauvoirs are cold as dead straws. Other blood, other feelings. I think the child has killed herself" " For pity's sake," said Lady Theresa, " why think anything so dreadful .^" " Folly !" cried Oliver angrily. " It is a mad thought. The girl is a good girl — too good by far " His voice shook, trem- bled, stopped. Mr. Bosperis had buried his face in his hands again. " Too good for you," he murmured. Then his voice rose and swelled. " I have said For (JO ft en Lives. 279 it — you shall never see lier face again. Goodness ! what is goodness when a mind is overthrown by jealousy? What do you know of madness and of mad blood, and what it can do ?" " Hush ! hush !" said Lady Theresa. "Barbara was not mad." '* No, but her mother was. Didn't you know it ? — didn't she tell you ? Her mother was as mad a woman as ever cursed a man's life." All this while Lady Theresa's uplifted hand implored her brother's patience ; all this while Deborah's shadow stood on the threshold of the door. "She always told me her mother was a good, loving, noble woman," Lady Theresa says earnestly. " Don't speak, wildly any more ; let us hope the best." " She lied if she said her mother was good and noble. The woman was passionate and fierce, and a Bedlamite when roused by jealousy. Hope the best ! No ! Let us fear the worst, and find courage to face it. De Beauvoir, is that other girl safe ?" " Safe 1" repeated Oliver aghast — " that other girl 1 Damnation, Bosperis ! are you resolved to drive a man mad ?" 280 Forgotten Lives. Lady Theresa was between tliem in a mo- ment, tears on her white cheeks, her wrung hands upHfted, passionate pleading in her voice. " For mercy's sake — for pity's sake — not now !" she said. " Do not quarrel now !" " There is no better time," returns Oliver, setting her aside. '' Bosperis, you have dared to call me to account for my conduct, when I have a better right to call you to answer for yours. Have you not acted like a villain towards my sister?" " Oliver ! Oliver !" cried Lady Theresa in anguish. " Cease ! cease ! I implore you !" Mr. Bosperis, standing up, with face re- solute and white, turned towards her as she spoke. " What have you told him ?" he asked. " Have you said you have listened to a mad- man — an enemy — a plotting fiend, who hates me, and for him you have embittered my life and your own?" " E'o, no ! I have not told him all. I have spared you, Ernest." " Spared me !" repeated her husband in bitter tones. " You think so, perhaps. You are too cold-hearted to understand " He stopped, for Oliver held towards him For (/often Lives. 281 a letter, the address of wiiicli caught his eyes, and fixed them as in a spell. " Another letter from the madman !" he said with a death-like smile. *' It comes opportunely." And he stretched out his hand for it. "It is addressed to Lady Theresa De Beauvoir," observed Oliver drily. " And there is no such person here. Give me the letter ! Do you want a row and a scandal?" asked Bosperis in bitter sarcasm. Oliver looked towards his sister. " Am I to give him the letter?" he said. Lady Theresa bowed her head in assent, and sat down and wept. The scorn, the bitterness in her husband^s voice sounded to her like liatred, and her heart was dying within her for grief. The listening woman at the door drew a step farther within the threshold, and stood now visible to all, had their angry eyes but turned her way. She had her gaze fixed on her master, and she read the repugnance and horror written on the lines of his passionate haggard face, as he broke the seal of the letter. Her blood ran angrily at seeing his hate ; the stony mask upon her face grew harder ; her lingering pity died. Mr. Bosperis read the letter, tore it across ^82 Forgotten Lives. again and again, then strode to tlie fire and thrust it in the flame. !N^o one dared stay his hand. ''It is nothing new," he said, with a ghastly laugh. "It is the old story — the old mad lie ! Who brought this missive to Bosanken ? Are you the Caerlerrick mes- senger, De Beauvoir ?" "Cease to insult .me! — will you?" cried Oliver, his face at a white heat. " I am the messenger," said Deborah in her hard, cold voice. " I laid the letter on my lady's pillow while she slept: her brother found it there." " So you are the serpent on my hearth !" And Bosperis burst into a wild laugh. '' I am a fool not to have guessed it before. Go out of my house in the morning, viper, and join the rest of the mad crew at Caerler- rick." "I'll go with my lady," said the hard woman, without a change in her voice. " When she leaves your house in the morn- ing I'll go with her." " Are you in league with her ?" asked Bosperis, turning with an expression of savage pain on his wife. " If so, for God's Forgotten TAves. 283 sake go with her, and leave me in peace. Or do more, arrest me as a felon, if you will. It is time, I think, we made an end of this." '' I think so too," said Oliver, throwing his arm round his sister, who had burst into wild and bitter weeping. "Bosperis, I do not desire to make a scandal any more than you do, but I'll take my sister out of your house to-night. Quietly, if you let us go quietly ; with open scandal and with truth proclaimed aloud if you resist." " Let your sister choose for herself," said Bosperis in a voice of preternatural calmness. ''Fifty thousand brothers roJled into one fool shall not interfere between her and me ! " Choose then, Theresa," and Oliver pressed her tightly with his arm. "It is honour or dishonour you have to choose, remember that. But to a De Beauvoir there can be no choice. I answer for her. SJie leaves you ! Make way for us to pass ! Do you dare intercept us ? Take care, Bosperis ! I have borne enough. I have passed over all your insults to myself for your poor wife's sake — 284 Forgotten Lives. no ! my sister, I mean ; but depend on it a day of reckoning will come between you and me. " Let it come !" said Bosperis. " I'll sboot you where you please. Theresa ! answer for yourself. Out of my way, man ! By the living Grod, I'll speak to my wife alone !" " She is not here," said Deborah's cold voice, as like a statue of stone she stood between the two men, whose blazing wrath was fast bringing them to blows. " You are both madmen. Why should you fight over this poor crushed lily ? Will you bring her down to death's gates again — you two?" She lifted the unhappy Lady Theresa and placed her in a chair, and stood before her as her protector. " Go and kill each other if you will," she said in her cold odd way. " Take pistols, swords, knives, anything you please, and hack each other to death. There will only be two fickle men the less in the world ; there'll be plenty left then to work woe to women — woe that is seen, and the worse woe that is never seen. There, go !" And she pushed at Oliver with one hard hand, while the other held up the fainting lady. Pie listened to her impatiently ; but Mr. Forgotten Lives. 285 Bosperis stood with a kind of smile on his pale face, as if he were taking breathing time and gathering up his strength. "She is better," Oliver says eagerly. "Now, Theresa, come." " Not without a word first alone with me." And the smile on the haggard face grew a little fixed, the lips themselves death white. *' You have no claim on my sister. She shall not speak to you. She has shown you too much mercy already."" " Has she ? It has been strange mercy," said Mr. Bosperis, with cruel irony in his voice. " It has been more than mercy," retorted Oliver fiercely. " She has compromised herself She should have quitted your house the moment she heard this, and left you to the opprobrium you deserve." " Do not fear that she has done too much for me. She has shown her pity like — like a woman. She has stabbed every minute of my life with pain." He turned his eyes away from the fair sad face of his wife, and drew back a step as though he yielded her, weary of the struggle. Then her brother took her by the hand and 286 Forgotten Lives, raised her, and he and Deborah bore her along a step-^or two in her passive weakness, inert and silent. But suddenly she stopped, and with one wild look upon her brother's face she broke away, and ruslied to her hus- band; and fell down at his feet. "Ernest! Ernest! Must I go? Oh, for pity's sake answer ! Is it true ? Is it all true ?" " It is all a lie," he answered — " a mad, ghastly lie." He looked down upon her with a flush for the first time tinging the pallor of his face. Then he lifted his head, and break- ing into a defiant smile he gazed at his opponents with a look which said, he knew his falsehood was palpable to them, and he cared not. " Oh, what can I believe ?" cried Lady Theresa. "He says it is a lie. You hear him, Oliver?" "And I hear him," said Deborah, as, cold and grey as ice, she came once more between them. " And I tell you the time is come when the lie in which he and you have lived, must crumble to the dust. Sir Cuthbert Tregethas means to proclaim the truth to all the wide world. Break his Forgotten Lives, 287 resolves if you can. This was the news given you in the letter lie has burned. Ask him if I sjDeak truly." Mr. Bosperis was silent, and he turned away from the wild appeal in his wife's eyes. " A servant's tale/' he said at last, sneer- ingly — " a creature who has been a spy in my house, in league with my enem3^ Will you believe her?" His words stung the grey Deborah into an unwonted fire. " I have been no spy," she said, and her hard voice shook ; '' I have done no wrong, I have but taken a few words from one broken heart to another. And I have been a faithful servant. Shall I tell Lady Theresa to whom I have been so faithful ? Shall I tell her whose heart I saw you break, whose brain I saw you torture into madness ? Ah, fickleness is a rare weapon — its slays body and soul." "I am fallen very low, De Beauvoir," said Mr. Bosperis with mournful sarcasm. " I bear the revilings of a servant's tongue, and do not care even to be ano-r T- '' You do not dare !" Deborah said harshly. " You have not dared to dis- 288 Forgotten Lives. charge me all these long years, though you knew I was friend to one whom you call an enemy." Her words fell on unheeding ears. Mr. Bosperis moved away from her, as though her very presence was a thing he ignored, and Oliver again bent over his sister, and urged her, in strong whispered words, to leave Bosanken. " Will you wait for Sir Cuthbert to act ?" he said. " Will you shame yourself openly ?" Lady Theresa cast her eyes despairingly on her husband, but there was no response on his white, haggard face ; its expression had settled down into hard lines of desperate defiance. Then she turned passionately to the grey woman by her side. " Deborah ! I appeal to you. No one will tell me the truth but you. These letters — these mad, dreadful letters " "Well, I have brought them to your hand. I own it. And yesterday — for here's the dawn come on us — I was at Caerlerrick, and saw the writer of these alive. Are you satisfied?" Her words made Mr. Bosperis reel. He fell back a step, and gazed at her as if she Forgotten Lives. 2S9 were a dead woman come to life again. Perhaps till now lie had hoped a little — letters can be forged — writing imitated. " I hope and think yon lie," was all he said in a voice desperately qniet. Lady Theresa rose with sndden resolu- tion, and put her hand on her brother's arm. The act was significant ; her husband saw it, and a swift whiteness covered his face to the lips. She held her other hand towards him. " Will you say farewell ?" she asked with a broken voice. " No !" he answered passionately. " If I am a villain whom you must leave I am not worthy of a farewell ; if I am your hus- band, it is a word which should never pass between us." He walked to the window, and never turned his head again till the door was shut on him, and he was left alone in his utter desolation. When this was done, and the}^ stood a moment without the door in blank silence, some touch of pity stole even upon that hard, stony woman, Deborah. "Did I not tell you to wait ?" she whis- pered angrily to Oliver. " I said there was VOL. II. 19 290 Forgotten Lives. sorrow enough here to-night. I said they could be man and wife no more if I had to speak." '' It is better as it is," answered Oliver gloomily. The chill dawn creeping in showed them their faces white and cold, and Lady Theresa standing dazed, tearless, speechless, shiver- ing as the light touched her. Oliver caught her as she fell, and carried her to her room, and laid her on her bed. '' I will have her own carriage at the door in an hour/' he said to Deborah on quitting her. "Be ready and be firm^." That grim woman bowed her head ; then she went to the window and drew aside the curtain, and let in a flood of rosy light crim- soning the east above Caerlerrick. " See, the sky is red and angry as on that morning you woke to life and spoke of Barbara, four years ago. Oh 1 my lady ! I told you the child would bring woe and death. Sir Cuthbert is a hard man, but a just. What will happen when he and her father meet face to face ?" But Deborah's superstition, her auguries- Forgotten Lives. 291 of woe, lier hatred or her love, could touch no more the broken heart of the pale lady whose lips were murmuring, even now, a wild farewell to Bosanken. END OF VOL. II. CHAPTEE I. HE dawn was come, but Ernest Bos- peris made no further search for Barbara. Either his sorrow swal- lowed up that care and banished her from his mind, or he knew or guessed somewhat which made a search no longer a duty. Xo matter what it might be, no one dared to question him. Servants entering the library in the morning found him standing at the window in haggard rumination, watching the dewy overhanging hill on which the sun- shine fell pleasantly. At noon he was there still, his eyes fixed on the same spot, all ablaze now with the his^h sun scorchin2' tree and grass, and beating through the hot win- dow on his weary brain ; in the evening he fell into a chair and slept. But even in VOL. III. 1 Forgotten Lives, sleep there was that upon his face which made his dog crouch silent by his feet, and not a servant in his household dared offer him food or come to his presence unbidden. The man was dangerous, and all creatures near him felt this instinctively, and quailing from his glance they slunk away and left his path clear for him. When the sun sank he rang and ordered food and wine. And as he ate he jested in an odd, rough, unwonted way with the man who waited on him. He even asked for news — stable news, servants'-hall news, country-side news, all the lowest gossip that vacant heads carried from place to place and told with gaping mouths. All this he asked for and heard sometimes with a ribald jest, sometimes with an oath. Ah ! there was a ghost at Caerlerrick was there? Well, if he saw a ghost he shoukl shoot it. There would be no one to blame but the ghost himself if a bullet let out life, as it would if lodged in flesh and blood. One topic he avoided — his wife. No sliadow of this talk touched her. The frightened servant, who laughed little wild jerky laughs when his master laughed, felt Forgotten Lives. that here was grouDcl he must not tread on even in thought. His master's desperate eyes, a Kttle bloodshot, were on him often, reading his very soul, and if he neared that precipice they would spring on him and push him on into death. And so the diuner ended at length, and the frightened man, glad from the tip of his crown down to his very heels, slunk to the door and laid liis hand upon the lock. His master's voice called him back with a spasm at his heart and a white face. " D — n the wine ! Bring brandy !" The man brought it, witli double respect and swiftness because of the oath, and laid it down silentl}^ before his master. " Tell them to saddle Black Adder and bring him to the door in half an hour. I shall be out late. Xo one must sit up. Leave the glass door leading to the garden unlocked for me. I'll come in that way." " Yes, sir. And — and you take Dick, sir, I suppose ?" "No, I take Old Nick— that is, I go alone. Leave the room I" Every night for a week !}>Ir. Bosperis took this dark, lonely ride, aud every morning his horse was found in the stable, weary, 1—2 Forgotten Lives. trembling, dead beat. No one knew at what hour he returned, no one knew whither he had gone, no voice dared ask him. He accustomed his scared household to these dismal nocturnal rides, and soon they passed without rem^ark. Just a lifted eyebrow, a whispered word, a raised finger, this was all, ,as he and his black steed swept swiftly up the road like a dark dream. On the eighth night he went out on foot. Apparently he returned home earlier this night, for a frightened woman-servant, lurk- ing on the stairs, saw him glide in by the garden door — saw by the light of the lamp kept burning for him that his face was ghastly pale — saw him take a flask from his pocket and drink heavily, then, with a suppressed moan upon his lips, saw him stagger to a chair and press his clenched hand against his brow, then saw his face fall forward buried in both hands, and heard the groan he could no longer keep back burst from his very heart through parched throat and dead-white lips. Seeing all this, the woman felt sick with that sort of fear one has of a snake or some- thing deadly springing on the sight un- awares, and clutching at the balusters she Forgotten Lives. crept away, a shadowy terror at her back following lier, just touching her ear with a dreadful whisper that she might die if he looked up and saw her. She had reason to remember this odd haggard vision next day, for with the bright summer light there came news to Bosanken. Such news as make the eyes to stare, and the lips to shake, and the heart to beat faintly, and all the life within this house of flesh to quiver and tremble with thoughts of dark- ness, and stark death h'ing stiff and chill in some chamber, where silent horror broods. A terrible word passed from lip to lip ; here and there the household stood in little groups wondering, talking, shrinking, but not one amoncr them had courasce to Sfo to the man sleeping in his chair and wake him from his dream of sadness and defiance, ten- derness and fury, all blending in one haggard smile of sufferino^ on his wan face. Let him sleep on ; he is dreaming of his young days — beautiful and wicked — days of joy and glory, days of passion and strength, when he stood upon the earth a god, and knew not his march was towards darkness and dust. When he wakes something more Forgotten Lives, terrible than these will be with him, and a dread shadow at his side will whisper — *' This blood is on your head. Behold, the wages of sin is death 1" •5f -X- -'A •?5- -i^ Oliver de Beauvoir and his sister took np their temporary abode at a small watering- place about two miles from Bosanken, and less than this distance from Caerlerrick. Lady Theresa's health was sufficient excuse for this change. She and her brother were careful to do nothing, say nothing, that would cause scandaL They would wait and see what Sir Cuthbert Tregethas meant to do. Thus these eight days were to them a waiting time — a time filled with surmise, doubt, and pain. Barbara's strange disap- pearance filled up the measure of their dis- may, for though they no longer thought of her as the victim of an accident, her con- tinued absence and silence m^ade the air thick with conjectures and wonder, which prepared people's minds for a mystery which they themselves too well knew the touch of a finger might unfold. Yes, there was cause enough for both pain and fear in this strange flight of Barbara's — this silent Forgotten Lives. mysterious withdrawal of her presence from Bosanken. The horrible suggestion of suicide which Mr. Bosperis had breathed out in his fury, did not rest long in Oliver's mind. Barbara's quiet, calm, earnest nature rose before him in thought and suppressed the fear. He searched for her for three daj^s with a sort of frantic misery hot on him, then his zeal slackened, and he declared himself weary of false hope and false news. All this while he forgot Rose, but on the third evening a thought — gathered from Deborah's stony eyes — struck him that she might know something. He even fancied, with a dull thick pain lying sluggish among his fancies, that she was cognizant that day of Barbara's presence at the ruins. He went to the chapel at the time of his usual ap- pointments with Eose, and found it full of workmen dismantling the walls. " What are you doing here ?" he said, standing aghast. " Tearing down this gashly auld place, sir, by Sir Cuthbert's orders." " How long have you been working here ?" " Since Saturdav, sir.'' 8 Forgotten Lives. It was on Friday he last saw Eose. So now there was added to tlie dull aching of his heart for Barbara a dismal fear for Eose. Sir Cuthbert's character for gloom, revenge, and violent paroxysms of fury re- curred to him with a throb of terror that nuide his heart leap. What w^as a timid girl in this man's liands ? And what was the opinion of the world to him ? For years he had lived an odd, eccentric, half-crazed life outside the workl, keeping tenants and dependents submissive at his feet. Why, if he chose to shut Eose up in the skeleton chamber of his horrible old fortress, who in his household would dare to tell the fact, or give the girl any help ? But then, again, it miglit be an accident his tearing down this ancient chapel — it might have nothing to do with his meetings here with, Eose. If so she would find some way of seeing him elsewdiere, or at least of writing to him. And with this hope he went home with leaden feet and a face pale with thought. His sister, as he told out his fears, was more alarmed than he. " Think," she said, " how great a cause that man has to hate all at Bosanken. He w^ould include you in this hate. With what Forgotten Lives. 9 sort of feeling would he hear of your clan- destine meetings with his step-daughter? The girl is not safe, Oliver — you must rescue her from danger." Oliver took a cigar and wandered out by the seashore, restless, uncertain, angrj^ his exasperated heart carrj'ing him on with swift strides, his perplexed brain bringing him >lowly back. And grinding on through it all was always llie old theme, what a villain was Bos- peris ! what an inexplicable madman was Tregethas ! He had not much mercy for his sister's pale face and breaking heart ; his own cares were putting him on the rack just now, and lie was not a man to take the punishment of his sins softly. * ^ * * * At Caerlerrick, during these eight days, old Primrose Behenna lies slowly dying. Her eyes have an awful fire in them still, all the life in her sad, withered^ ancient body concentrate^; in these black caverns, and they glow like living coals and speak un- utterable things as they gaze straight for- ward into the gulf of death. Eose rushes away from her scared, but 10 Forgotten Lives. stands without the door and breaks into little rills of cruel laughter as she rehearses to Fatima some of the last weird croakings of the poor Eaven. Yes, Fatima is here with her eyes wide open, and the odd green liglits in them shining this way and that, quick as emerald lightnings, as she peers about. Fatima arrived hurriedly, having come the instant she was invited. And the invitation was sent before Sir Cuthbert divined the hard dilemma that would be presented to him. But he took his choice between the two evils promptly, then waited his time. So Fatima comes to Caerlerrick in the midst of a deep hush, a breathless calm, like the quiet terror of the tempest ere it rises in its strength. With her quick sensitive temperament she feels this, and at times, among the queer green lights of her shining eyes, there quivers a little dart of fear. But even this has an excitement and an ex- pectancy, not without charm to a creature of boundless curiosity. So, on the whole, Fatima is delighted with Caerlerrick. " 3fa chere,'' she says to Eose, " j^our cliateau is unique, splendid, sublime. I walk in fairyland. Here is your beautiful mother as the good fairy; here is your stepfather, Forgotten Lives. 11 the wizard, who will chansre to be a kin^ or a demon — one must choose which ; here is the malignant fairy, whom you call the Eaven ; and lastly there is the secret, of which you tell me with hushed breath. There remains only to add our two selves and our lovers and a rival, and we have a whole drama complete." And Fatima smiles with a tiny bit of malice in her eyes. "As for the rival," Eose returns, with a toss of her head, " she is disposed of She will trouble me no more. The lover is yet to be won. You'll help me with all your heart, Blanche, wont you ?" " Certainly. I suppose I shan't get my head cut off if I open the Bluebeard chamber." And Fatima laughs rather ner- vously. " After all, my dear, your skeleton cupboard here is a horror. It is only in England people would keep such a wretched dungeon for a show to astonish gaping fools, and a trap to get half-crowns for your servants. That dreadful little den is the only place in your chateau I don't admire. In France we sliould soon turn it into a con- servator}' or something cheerful. How very odd you English are !" This to Fatima excused everything. She 12 Forgotten Lives. was in England, where eccentricity and tlie '' spleen" made all laws and customs. If Sir Cuthbert had put a halter of straw round his fair lady's neck and driven her off to market, it would not have astonished Fatima. She was afraid of that grave, taciturn man ; she passed him in corridor or hall with a deprecatory curtsey and a wild little smile, then hurried away. There was no knowing, you see, what shape his eccentricity might take. She felt safer out of his sight. Now with the Eaven it was different. Fatima had no fear of the weird, strange woman, whose withered age, wild eyes, and silver voice, and touching half-crazed devotion, made up a mingled picture half grotesque, half sublim^e. Her exaggeration, too, of her age, and that ghostly fancy that she held Eose Behenna's life, not her own, had its odd side for Fatima, amusing her with its mix- ture of pathos and delusion. " Tiens ! que ced drbUr she would cry, and her musical French laughter broke into the breathless hush at Caerlerrick, and made it merry for a moment. And so the sixth day of the waiting time came and passed. On the seventh morning Eose was angrj^ Forgotten Lives. 13 and somewhat frightened. She had dis- covered, hefore Oliver did, that workmen were dismantling the ruins, and she wrote to him appointing another rendezvous. She received no answer. " Your letter never reached its destina- tion," said clever Fatima. Eose laughed in disbelief, and wrote another letter. Fatima said nothing, but, like the soft white cat she was, she watched the mes- senger, and saw him take the letter to Sir Cuthbert's room. This news told to Eose changed her pretty pink cheeks to snow, but it also roused that latent ire and venom of her nature which made the little Lizard liken her to a snake. She tried to go out and see Oliver. She found her path intercepted bv her step- fatlier, v/ho led her back to the house with a few words of such dire wrath and menace that her heart quailed at them. She suffered in this fear, and to be made to suffer was a thing Eose never forgave. All her selfish nature now was raised to be revenged on the "tyrant" who had caused her knees to tremble, her heart to quake, and her soul to writhe beneath the bitter irony of his tongue 14 Forgotten Lives. and the iron hand of his power. She ran weeping to her raother, who received her with unwonted anger and reproaches for her duplicity. Thus uncoraforted, Rose went sullenly to her own room and conferred with her sly white friend. That night — the seventh of those lone dark rides when Ernest Bosperis went forth like a lost spirit seeking desolate places — old Primrose Be henna lay drifting fast towards the great gulf whose shores are Time and Eternity. She wandered in her mind, and at midnight asked for Eose with a sudden burst of terror and de- lirium. " Is she aUve ? Is she well ? Let me see her/* she cried out, in her shrill silver voice. Eose came to her pettishly, unwillingly, and her rosebud face looked down in angry impatience on the seamed, scarred visage and wild eyes which gazed up at her in piteous terror of death. " Is there no hope ?" said Primrose, and her sweet voice thrilled and trembled. " Is the life over, really gone, that you gave me ? The forty years have vanished like a dream. A few sands — are there not a few Forgotten Livet es. sands more yet to fall before you and I must go ?" "Oh, you mad old skeleton!" Eose answers snappishly. ''I am Eose Carteret, and lam certainly not going to the churchyard with you. Don't think it." "And you are well — quite well?" Prim- rose says eagerly. " She is flourishing like a rose," returns Fatima, who, soft and white, is standing by the bedside, wondering at the lack of priest, and holy oil, and blessed candle, and think- inor how like a heathen these Encrli>h heretics die. " Like a rose I" repeats the poor Eaven wistfully. Then her awful eyes light up with a sudden fire, and she clutches at Fatima's dress. " Do you think," she whispers wildly, " they have given her a little time — a little longer time ? Do you think she'll live another month or two ?" " Come away I" breaks in Eose angrily ; " these ugly croakings chill my blood." " Perhaps I mistook the time," continues Primrose, in the same silver-clear eager whisper, " and she said foiiy years and a month or two — did she say it ?" " Xo, Eaven 1" cries Eose, exasperated ; 1 6 Forgotten Lives, " she did not say it ! She did not say a week or a day longer. Make up your mind to that. You ought to be glad to go. I should be rejoiced if I were you." " Ah ! you were always ready to die — too ready !" Primrose answers bitterly. " A hot life, a cold death — there, go away !" "Good night, you mad old Eaven," re- turns Eose; "go to sleep if you can." She and Fatima creep away, with Prim- rose Behenna's big wild eyes, full of savage ansrer, folio win 2^ them to the last. In the corridor the two girls stand a moment with a little shivering awe and terror on them. Eose is the first to recover herself and laugh. " The poor old Eaven's last croakings are ghastly," she says. " What a comfort it will be when she is boxed up and carried away !" " It will be a pity to lose such an old curiosity," Fatima returns. '' I suppose she is over a hundred years old ?" " No ; Sir Cuthbert says she ^ is only ninety-nine. And she has been a little queer in her head ever since she had a fever forty years ago. They say the woman watching her fell asleep, and on waking missed her from her bed. She was searched Forgotten Lives. 17 for all over Caerlerrick, and found at last by the pool wliere Eose Behenna drowned her- self. From that day she recovered. The doctor said his skill had cured her, the nurse asserted it was the fresh air, old Primrose herself declared that she was dead, and the life she had now was the drowned girl's, whose ghost had appeared to her by the pool, and given her the years allotted to herself had she not flung them away by suicide. There, that's the story. Let us go to bed — I am shiverinLT." " Hush.!" Fatima says eagerly, '' what is that?" A door at the end of the passage was softly opened just a little way, and a hand — a thin pale hand — thrust out from the darkness within, grasped it and swung it gently to and fro. Then it closed as softly as before, the hand withdrawing slowly, and the two girls were left alone in the corridor with staring eyes, looking into each other's w^hite faces. " "Was it milady ?" says Fatima. Eose looks at her a great blank no. " To what place does the door lead ?" " To a little staircase going down to Sir Cuthbert's rooms." VOL. III. 2 18 Forgotten Lives. They read eacli otlier's looks a moment without a word. Then Fatima steals with footfall of velvet to the door, and lays a soft white hand upon the lock. She glances back, and her green eyes plainly tell the tale to Eose that it is fastened from within. *' TiensP' she whispers, as Eose glides up to her ; " I feel I shall have a fit of som- nambulism to-night. Have you an old black shawl to lend me ? One catches cold sometimes." ***** On this seventh night of Ernest Bosperis' hasfo^ard watch what did Fatima see ? Per- haps only a sepulchral feast spread with ghastly custom as the sun set, and eaten in loneliness and suffering in the watches of the night, perhaps something more — some- thing with terror and pain and pity in it, which sends her to her prayers, and then to her bed weeping. In the morning she avoids Eose and Lady Tregethas, and wanders out alone in the park. At noon Eose, also alone, is in the Eaven's chamber when there sounds suddenly on her startled ears the silver tinkle of that strange sweet bell. Old Prim- rose opens her wild eyes on hearing it^ and Forgotten Lives. 19 looks a piteous prayer at Eose. The prett}^ pink is chased away from her cheeks, and there has settled on her face a white reso- lution which makes her eyes darken and shine like diamonds. " Never fear, Eaven," she says. '' I'll go to Sir ]\Ialins myself." These words strike Primrose into a new and terrible life. Her ghastly gaunt figure rises in the bed, her skeleton hands strive to clutch at Eose. ''No, no 1" she screams. " Stop ! Come back ! You are not fit to answer Sir Malins' bell. You are rushing to your death ! You know not what you do ! She is gone !'' whimpers Primrose as the unheeding girl rushed away. Then her skeleton frame fell back upon the bed, the sweat of some great agony came out upon her forehead in big beads, her parched tongue strove to cry for help ; but in her wild effort to stay Eose her last strength was gone, and not a sound broke from her shaking lips, only her black eyes glowed still with life and fear, and her clasped hands upraised spoke a silent prayer. Meanwhile Eose has reached the old 2—2 20 Forgotten Lives. cumbrous windlass, the masked trap-door, and rough-hewn dismal stairs which me- diaeval wickedness had made to secure itself from the like knightly quality in its neigh- bours. The dim lamp swings above her head, the long chain creaks ; her breath comes gaspingly in the cold atmosphere, her heart beats like a scared bird's, her quivering hands touch the door at last. She has proved her conrage, she has kept her promise — she has won that very worthless, flashy, false jewel, a fickle man's love. In another instant the secret hidden so long at Caerlerrick will be hers, and if hers, his. And now she pauses, a sickening fear lays hold of all her senses, and for a moment slie is quite blind and faint. The next instant she has darted within Sir Malins' room, and stands face to face with — Fatima ! Fatima is very white ; she is half laugh- ing, half crying. "I have nearly pulled down the ghost- bell," she says. " I do believe in another minute I should have gone mad.'' " How did you get here ?" cries Eose, her gaze fixed in astonishment, and her heart upon her lips still. " Get me out of it first : I'll tell 3'ou afterwards how I got into it." Forgotten Lives. 21 Very friglitened, veiy silently, tliey climb ap the ugly dismal well through which the stairs wind, both with a hearty hatred for the noble barons and chivalric times which developed such pleasant places, and both speechlessly wondering what or wiio will meet them at the top. It is the master of the castle who, with- out a word, helps them out of this grim feudal refuge, wringing their hands a little tightly as he assists them to gain the light of day. When the black ugliness and dark- ness are quite behind them, he turns to Fatima with stiff politeness. " Miss Yaldelapins," he says in unmiti- gated English, " I hope you have found pleasure in exploring this ancient place. Will you oblige me by letting your father know, that unavoidable events make it im- perative on me to shorten your visit to Lady Tregethas ? I shall be glad if he can send, or come for you as soon as he receives your letter. Will you go to the drawing- room ? Lady Tregethas awaits you there. Rose will come with me." He lays his hand upon her shoulder and makes her thus a prisoner, for though his touch is light and cold, it holds her hy its will, and not its power. Fatima with a 22 Forgotten Lives. swift little bow and blazing eyes marches away with all her French nerves bristling. "Blanche!" cried Eose, in the old sweet accents of Blois, " manage to tell Am I am in terror, and perhaps danger. Bid hira remember his promise to rescue me," French is an unknown tongue to the baronet-gaoler ; he listens with grim sus- picion, then comes back a step. " You had better say good-by to each other^ you two. I cannot let you meet again — no, and it is not all my fault." This in answer to Fatima's pretty little French scream, and he waves his hand at her de- precatingly. " You have brought it on yourselves. You are playing with life and death like blind children on the edge of a furnace. There, say good-by, but speak English." They rush to each other's arms^ more in fear than love ^ the green eyes look down kindly into the tearful blue, and in her kisses Fatima tries to say — oh, what does she not try to say ? but vainly, for not a word can pass with that grey grim iron listener stand- ing by. "I am soriy to vex a guest." he says in that cold, courteous tone of his^ ''but the Forgotten Lives. 23 sad secret of mj house is mj own, ]Miss Yal- delapins, not a stranger's, and I must tell it at my own time, with my own voice. Could you not have waited a day or two ?" As he uttered these words his tone, his aspect, his white wrath, suppressed by cour- tesy, all changed into one pale look of hate, fury, pain unspeakable. "With these upon his face he hurried Eose away, and left Fatima orazino: blanklv, with the o-reen lights in her eyes growing fiery, and two small fists clenched like white pavv's with good claws within them. * Tje 7^ * ^ That night — the eighth night of those baleful, doleful wanderings of a suspicious, defiant man — Oliver de Eeauvoir received a mysterious epistle from Caerlerrick. It was from Fatima ; she was cleverer at her work than Eose, and her messenger did her bid- ding. Her letter hinted at strange things, and implored immediate help and counsel. All Eose's " little treacheries," she said, were discovered ; she had incurred Sir Cuth- bert's dire anger, and was now in circum- stances of great danger. What the danger might be Fatima did not explain, yet her words were evidently written in trepidation 24 Forgotten Live$, and the fear of some inexplicable evil. Eose must be rescued at once ; the place in which she was a prisoner v/as dangerous. She had kept her promise to him, he must now fulfil his to her. He must aid her to escap-e fromi Caerlerrick. This letter Oliver brought to his sister^ and both read it with that chill foreboding of coming evil which such words might well evoke. ***** ''And she came out safe from Sir Malins' room?" Primrose says for the twentieth time. "And she is well and happy to- night ?^' " Not very happy^ I tliink. Primrose/^ Lady Tregethas answers, " but happier, per- haps, than I am. And she deserves a little sorrow for her ingratitude and deceit/' " Yes, yes, a little sorrow, but not death. Bliell live now — ^you have said so." This superstitious anxiety for Eose, so selfish in its crazed fears, vexed Lady Tre- gethas. " I have told you the child is well," she said in a firm tone. " I have said again and again it was the French girl rang the bell. She got to the room by the way we know of. Forgotten Lives. 25 Primrose. Xow try to make yourself tran- quil, and sleep. It is near midnight." " You'll stay with me ?" Primrose an- swers, striving to keej) her restless head still upon the pillow. "Yes. Have I not promised?" And drawing the lamp nearer to her. Lady Tregethas takes up her work again, and silence sinks down upon the sick room. But there is no sleep in the wild fever of the awful eyes watching her so furtively, there is no sleep in the dull, moaning, mut- tering lips, no sleep in the clutching hands, no sleep in the haggard lines of the pale, leaden, wrinkled face. Lady Tregethas comes to the bedside, wipes her brow with pitj'ing hand, puts cordials to her lips, and speaks soothingly to the poor aged wanderer standing now on the borderland. " Why are you so restless. Primrose ? Take comfort. You have been a faithful woman — a devoted servant to this house all your life long." " Yes, yes, to this house, not to God. And now there's the prison-house where I shall lie alone among the dead — the prison- house of cold earth. Ah I ^ou don't care — you are living and well ; it is the old and 26 Forgotten Lives. the sick who think and shudder. And you ouo^ht to care. You are my own blood. my Your father was my son." "And I do care, Primrose. Be con- soled ; think of the promises " " Ah, ah ! I think when I can. My head is clear to-night. I understand all you say. Ml/ great-grand-daughter will be heiress here. I ought to live to see that, and I shall. If she lives how can I die ? That's against her promise." " You wander again, dear Primrose. Do not talk." " But is it fair Sir Cutliberfc should cut off his own flesh and blood and give his lands to a Behenna ? He does not know that ; you are too proud to tell him ; but / say, standinsr on the brink as I am now, you ought to tell him. I see your face there shining by the lamp. I see the shame on it for the poor old, wrinkled, worn-out woman " " No, Primrose, I am not ashamed of you. You have been true and faithful. It is Sir Cuthbert's pride I spare, not my own ; and perhaps " — and Lady Tregetbas sighed deeply — " I think too much of my child." " Ah ! that you do. And she is not worth Forgotten Lii'e.<i. 27 it. She is not good ; she says cruel things to me — things that bite and sting me as I lie here helpless. If I was only j'oiinger 1" and Primrose shook her thin hand in the air, while her eyes grew full of menace. " Do not be hurt or angry/' Lady Trege- thas says, as her face flushes. " It is but the foolish talk of a clnld." " Child or woman," Primrose answers, " you are hiding a truth for her sake. Do the right, or harm will come of it. Xever mind Sir Cuthbert's hate of a Bosperis ; never mind your own love ; do right, I say!" And clear and strong her silver voice rang out like a bell. " It will be done to-morrow," Lady Tre- gethas answers in a patient voice. " Have I not said this is the last nvAit of waitins^?" "And you will tell Sir Cuthbert then' that Eose is a Behenna ?" '' I will tell him, but at some more fitting time. Think of his great sorrow. Prim- rose, and his hard task. I will not vex him with my little wave of bitterness to- morrow." Her words touched the broken chord, and scared the poor Eaven back to her old un- reason ; the fiery anguish of forgotten woes 28 Forgotten Lives. burned again in her eyes, upon her face there settled down the old haunted look. " I helped him in his task, but it wore my brain away. Will my son, ray boy, never come back to me ? I wish he had kept his word to Deborah, then Eose Behenna would never have come back to kill me — stolen back like a snake to Caerlerrick to betray its secrets and covet its wealth." " Hush ! hush ! Primrose ; you talk wildly." " Wildly? Well, the world is a wild and evil dream to me now. But that's above ground. What will it be below ? A dream still, or an awakening ? Dark ! dark ! it is all dark." She fixed her eyes upon the lamp mourn- fully, gathering in the light as though it were the last time this sweet blessing would touch her vision. " So Sir Cuthbert waits for the morning ?" she said suddenly, her strange voice silver clear. " Yes ; this is the last night of this sad time." '' Bo it is of mine. I am going with the light.^' " No, no. Primrose ; there are many days for you yet." Forgotten Lives, 29 " The clay is gone/' she answered ; '' the night comes fast, the long night. People say I am old — I have lived my day. But what are the years that have passed over my Lead in light, compared to the years which will cross over my sightless face in darkness as I lie a prisoner ? I have read in a good book ' God hath woollen feet, but iron hands.' Yes, the feet of wool are our steal- ing years, the iron hands are death and the grave." For many a long bedridden month Prim- rose had not been so strong in voice, so clear in mind, as she was on this awful night. Lady Tregethas listened to her as one listens to a passing knell, and the sick shadows in her own heart rose %p like ghosts, and crowded chill around her. The night was breathless, the stars faint but clear. The moonlight slept silvery on the soft slopes of the park, the shadows lay like still phantoms on the dew ; every sound was at rest, as though the earth slumbered gently and had found peace. Suddenly through this deep silence there broke a shrill cry, a piercing scream of terror, and Lady Tregethas started to her feet ; the dying woman in her bed trembled, and her eyes, lighting up with a last flame, turned in horror to the door. 30 Forgotten Lives. Then a white figure rushed in with death upon its face — a face that a moment or two ago was a hlooming rose, hut now so ghastly and changed that for one hreathless second the mother does not recognise her child. " It is Eose Behenna !" shrieks Primrose ; " she is slain ! she is dying ! See the blood upon her dress !" Eose falls at her mother's feet as she speaks — falls as her white faint ]ips strive to utter one dreadful word. There are crimson stains upon her bosom, and her life is welling red over her small hands, which she has pressed upon her side. Lady Tregethas flings herself upon her knees beside her, and fills the air with shrieks for help. But Primrose looks on calmly, except tftat her awful eyes have a last glimmer of their old madness in them shining faintly like a dying fire. '' She is come for me," she murmurs ; " I knew she would keep her word. I knew her sands of life were down." These are the last words that strange sweet silver voice shall ever speak. As she looks upon that white vision of death upon the floor the tremulous dawn creeps in and touches it with a cold light, but her eyes fill up with darkness, one wrinkled hand is flung Forgotten Lives, 31 upward, then drops inert, a placid pallid smile flickers over lier face — passes and leaves that face cold, white, and still. The Eaven has taken her flight for ever from Caer- lerrick. The dawn is come. The eio:hth nis^ht of that fierce lonely watch is over. Ernest Bosperis, w^ith a haggard horror on his face, returns to his desolate home, and, over-wearv with anguish, sleeps in his chair dreaming strange dreams. S'^TiR^ ^sw^ ^ ^ n^c^^i ^^^Js ^^1 W ^^ ^^^m ^S^^ ^^m w s^^^ CHAPTEE II. GENTLEMAN wishes to see you, sir. And witli a quiet hand a servant lays a card upon the table, then stands silent and a little watchful, with eyes upon his master's haggard face. Ernest Bosperis is in the full glare of day- light now, awake indeed, every faculty of his mind, as it were, standing at arms ready to attack as to defend. He puts down the man's eyes steadily, calmly, and his voice is the voice of a master still. " Show Mr. Lethbridge into the library. I will come to him in a moment." As tlie servant leaves him he sinks back in his chair again, the weary lines of pain return to his mouth, the old look of horror and fear springs back to his eyes, he presses his hand upon them tightly to force away some vision which aches and tortures like a madness. He succeeds, and springs up with Forgotten Lives. 33 a calm and settled look of pale resolution on his face. " I must wait. There is nothing to do but wait patiently." He is heart- sick, he is full of dismay, and fear, and horror, all the springs of his life within him are turned to bitterness, yet he greets Walter Lethbridge with only just that shade of sadness, which a courteous host should wear, who has to disappoint or grieve a guest. " Mr. Lethbridge, I wish I could give you a happier welcome to Bosanken. Your cousin left us eight days ago, mysteriously, suddenly, without a word of warning, without telling us whither she intended to bend her steps." " My cousin ! Barbara !". exclaims Walter ; and his brown, handsome face grows slowly white as a dead man's. " Yes, I grieve to say, Barbara — Miss Lethbridge — has left us. Sit down, Mr. Lethbridge, pray sit down." Involuntarily Walter obeys, and Bosperis flings himself also into a chair, with his back to the light. " Will you explain to me wiiat has occurred ?" Walter says in a tone of fierce VOL. III. 3 34: Forgotten Lives. impatience. "I understand nothing at present." " Miss Letlibridge, eight days ago, went out riding alone — a thing she had never done before — she has not returned ; she has sent no tidings, no message. There is the bare fact, told as simply as I can tell it." But Walter still failed to understand the words falling on his ears, his whole soul refused to believe that such sorrow as this could be Barbara's first greeting to him in England. He fixed his eyes in speechless pain on the haggard face of his host, and waited for his voice again, " At first we feared an accident, but that idea has passed. Now I think that — that Miss Lethbridge has taken refuge with a friend, and will write as soon as she becomes aware of your arrival." " Eefuge 1" repeats Yv^alter. "Was she unbappy here? — was there any cause " " Mr. Lethbridge, I cannot say there was no cause, but it was so light and slight that I feel sure it is not t/ie cause of your cousin's act." " Speak out, Mr. Bosperis ; this is no time for enigmas." So Mr. Bosperis once more explains, and Forgotten Lives. 35 stings the faithful, patient, waiting love with the story of the faithless and fickle. " This gentleman is not with Barbara ?" Walter says, with white lips. " I did not expect that question. 1 thought you knew 3'our cousin better." " Then why has she left you and Lady Theresa ?" For an instant Mr. Bosperis is silent., then he looks up hastily. "She may not have liked — being sure of his treachery now — to meet this popinjay at my house. He is my wife's brother.'' " Is he here now ?" And there is a ring in Walter's voice unmistakably dangerous. "Unfortunately, no." And Mr. Bosperis puts up his hand to his lips to hide the sad and bitter smile, which steals upon them at the thouofht of a meeting^ between the careless, easy Oliver, and the honest, stern man before him. With his hand still upon his chin, he says quietly — " My brother-in- law is with his sister at a little place a mile or two away by the sea. Lady Theresa is not well. You must let me make you wel- come alone." During his utterance of these few words Walter's heart changes towards him, and 8—2 36 Forgotten Lives. grows sick with a sharp darting fear. On the slender nervous hand resting on his chin there sparkles a quaint antique ring, with a curious unfinished look in its design, for it represents only a single rose-leaf in diamonds, and there flashes across Walter's memory the old gimrnel ring lying in the secret drawer of Barbara's cabinet. Can this be the missing piece ? Can this man have any motive for thrusting out of sight a girl who must be mysteriously connected with him ? Is all this story of her sudden strange de- parture a lie ? Walter's fixed gaze- turns at last from the pale thin hand to the haggard, woe-struck, but defiant face, which, uneasy at his look, yet looks back again cold and proud. " Thanks for your oftered hospitality," Walter says gravely, " but at present I can- not accept it. I shall, of course, make instant search for my cousin, and I should like first to see Lady Theresa, and hear what she has to tell me." Mr. Bosperis straightens himself in his chair ; the cool, hard manner which, like a mask, he has worn so long, returns to him as he speaks. "I am sorry I cannot aid you in your Forgotten Lives. 37 wish to see Lady Theresa. Nor can I advise you to call on her brother and herself. They can add nothing to the statement I have given you." Walter hears this and keeps his thoughts to himself. " I should like to see my cousin's desk," he says, " and a curious old cabinet she has, in which she sometimes kept letters. It is possible she may have placed a note there expressing her intentions. Have you made any search ?" " None : nothing has been touched since your cousin quitted us. You can look over the desk and cabinet if you choose to take the responsibility of such an act. I, of course, would not presume to do so, unless I saw more cause for alarm than I consider exists in her singular absence." He rang the bell, the diamonds flashing on his hand, and Walter, looking at him earnestly again, felt the firm conviction that the cause of Barbara's flight was no secret to this pale worn man. When desk and cabinet were brought to him with Barbara's keys, found on her table, he did but glance at the first ; he knew a letter intended for perusal would not be 38 Forgotten Lives. locked up in a desk, and lie had slight hope of finding any. He drew the cabinet to- wards him, and fancied as he did so he could detect a slight change, a quivering of the eye, a shadow on the face of his host. " This is most likely the depository of Barbara's secrets," he said carelessly ; ''it is very antique, and perhaps possesses a clever secret drawer." " These old cabinets often do, but you will find none in this one." The voice had an inflection almost sneer- ing, and Walter in his anger bungled at the lock a little. When he unclosed the doors and looked up from his task, he saw the ring on his host's finger had been turned — the thin gold rim only was visible. One by one Walter opened the six tiny drawers. Here w^as the withered dry rose still in its paper shroud, dated " 6th June;" here was the small ivory box containing its mournful flowers from a mother's grave — " Gathered the day I left ;' here was the lock of dark hair mingled with grey, the empty gold locket with the cipher B ; here were all these things just as he had last been them, kept by Barbara untouched, as we keep a sepulchre. Mr, Bosperis looked Forgotten Lives. 39 on them with a steadfast face, not a nerve quivering. Once he took the dead rose in his hand, and a contemptuous smile for a single instant flitted on his lip. " Quite a little cemetery for dead memen- toes," he said, and with a bitter look he laid the flower back in its grave again. " You see this is all, Mr. Lethbridge, and it doesn't tell us much." "It tells me a great deal," returned Walter, " but then I have the key to these ciphers. "You!" And now for the first time there was a startled tone, a wild cr3' of pain in his voice. " Yes, these poor relics tell a sad story ; they belonged to Barbara's mother — a woman who trusted a man too deeply and rued it" Mr.Bosperis laughed — a short hard laugh. " Then shut them out of sight again," he said. " The next worst thing a woman can do after trusting a man is to tell it. She is dead ; let her secret die too." He closed the drawer quietly, with a sigh of relief, for Walter's last words had taken a weight from his heart. Thev were so blindly far from the truth. 40 Forgotten Lives, " Excuse me, I am going to look for a secret compartment/' And so saying, Walter took the cabinet from his hand. " You will look vainly, I am quite cer- tain/' And Mr. Bosperis walked to the window. When lie came back to the table there was tig ring on his finger. The secret compartment was empty. The letters and the gimrael ring were gone ! " Ah ! so yon have found a secret drawer!" Mr. Bosperis says with an assumption of interest. " Luckily it is innocently empty. How would yon excuse yourself to your cousin had you found it full of love- letters ?" ? " Mr, Bosperis, this is past a jest. My cousin is perfectly ignorant of the existence of this compartment ; it is I only who know of it, and was cognizant also of its contents." " And what were they, if I may ask ?" " Letters from Barbara's father to her mother, and a gimmel ring — a diamond rose and one leaf : you had the other leaf on 3^our finger but an instant ago/' " Mr. Lethbridge, that is an insolent and wild conjecture. Here is my ring ; how can Forqotten Lives. 41 you prove it fits the other portions of this missing giminel ring?" " I cannot prove it by actual demonstra- tion, but I know, and you know, I speak truly. Mr. Bosperis, how is it these things are stolen in your house ?" " Take care what you say, Mr. Leth- bridge. I can excuse much from grief, but nothing from curiosity. This ring, these letters are not stolen ; Barbara has them with her. " She cannot. She did not know the secret of the drawer/' *' She must have discovered it. The day before she quitted my house the articles you speak of were in that cabinet." " How can you answer for that r" cried Walter. " Because I examined them,'' returned Mr. Bosperis coolly. " Xo one had a better right than I to verify my own surmises." " You dared do that," exclaimed Walter, "and yet you did not take these things, having, perhaps, a vital interest in wishing them concealed or destroyed ?" " Yes, a vital interest," said Mr. Bosperis, with an air of desperate weariness stealing over his haggard face ; " and yet, being on 42 Forgotten Lives. the whole an honest devil, I let them lie where they were." " Do you mean to explain ?" Walter asks somewhat fiercely. " Perhaps yes, perha2:)s no. I am not my own master. I am at the mercy and in the hands of an enemy. You saw a word engraven on the inside of that gimmel ring r " Yes, Caerlerrick." "Just so, Caerlerrick. Well, we must wait a madman's orders, you and T." " I have had a letter from Caerlerrick,'' AYalter says. " So have T," and a bitter, pallid smile broke over his face. " A letter ! Ah, many letters. I wish I had been as blessed as you to have only one. What does your letter say?" " Sir Cuthbert Tregethas asks me for an immediate interview, and declares he shall await my arrival before making some strange disclosures at which he hints." So Walter Lethbridge was the man waited for . during these eight nights of desperate, lonely watching. " So he waits your arrival to anniliilate his foe," Mr. Bosperis answers, striving to Forgotten Lives. 43 speak with a careless sneer. But not all liis courage, all his firmness, can keep his face clear from the ghastly whiteness creeping from lips to brow. " Did you reply to his letter?" "Yes," Walter returns, "I wrote to say I should be here to-day/' " And to-day the madman — he is mad — may alter all his plans. A great deal may happen in a day, or in a night, to change a man. Yes, I think I may safely affirm we shall not see Caerlerrick to-day. Meanwhile you perhaps guess that your cousin is also against me ? Yes, she too has joined the enemy." Here Walter's uncomprehending gaze, stern, bewildered, impatient, falls on him like a fire : he answers it with a hao'o-ard smile. " I mean the madman has seized her, or she has gone to his hold willingly. There, that is my guess — take it at what it is worth. They all leave me — wife and — and child if I had one. Yes, all gone, except Wolf, my dog." "Mr. Bosperis, I must insist on your speaking frankly. If you have reason to suppose my cousin has taken refuge at 44 Forgotten Lives. Caerlerrick, do you believe she is in safety there ?" " Safety ! when the devil is there ? Ha ! ha ! I beg your pardon, I dare say he is chained up. And Sir Cuthbert w^ill take care of her. I'll do the madman justice, he would not harm a fly." As he spoke hurried steps came across the hall, the door was flung open by a hot hand, and Oliver, spent with hard riding, his face fevered, his eyes somewhat wild, burst into the room. " Bosperis, I never thought to speak to you again, but I am here on a sad necessity. You are the nearest magistrate : that is why I am come. I apply to you for a warrant against Sir Cutlibert Tregethas. He has stabbed Rose Carteret !" CHAPTEE ITL HE devil he has !'*' said Mr. Bosperis, rising cool, calm, and white. " Then ycm put the knife in his hand for the blow. Go elsewhere — I'll grant you no warrant here. Don't come to the man who hates hira for the instrument to clap him in a prison." '' The next magistrate lives ten miles away. Don't be Quixotic, Bosperis. I call on you to fulfil your duty." " Then I arrest you as accessory before the deed. You should have left the girl alone." " Good lieavens ! is this a time to talk folly? Make out the warrant, Bosperis. I wont wait." " I will do no such thing. You are the one to blame. It is an ill deed, De Beauvoir, to irritate the mad." His voice held in a world of woe, an in- tensity of bitterness, and his eyes, like sunk 46 Forgotten Lives. fires, shrank away from the light. Oliver looked at him in angry amazement. " Irritate the mad !" he repeated fiercely. " Am I to he held responsible for Sir Cuth- bert's murders because I put him out of temper ?" '' Is the girl dead ?" asked Mr. Bosperis in a calm, clear voice. " No, poor child, but I hear she is d3nng," and Oliver shaded his eyes a moment with his hand. Pretty, thoughtless, light-hearted Eose ! is this to be your fate ? to die cruelly, slain before Time has swept away a single vision or beauty of your youth ? At this instant Eose is very lovely in the eyes of Oliver de Beauvoir. "Ah, dying? And can she speak ?" Mr. Bosperis asks in a strange, quiet tone. " No ; she is unconscious — has lain so for hours. Bosperis, you make me mad with your questions ! Let us get to business — let us lodge the assassin in gaol !" '' On your evidence only?" asks the other in his coolest way. " Come, what do you know about the matter ?" " Nothing of myself, of course, but I have heard all the story. They pretend at Caer- Forgotten Lives. 47 lerrick that some burglar or robber entered by the window and stabbed the poor child. I know better. We had warning of this sent to us. A letter came to Theresa yesterday from the young French lady staying at Caerlerrick, saying Sir Cuthbert " " And is there no one else at Caerlerrick ?" demands Bosperis with one of his strange smiles. " No one who could or would do such a deed as this." " Jealousy can and does do worse things." And that sinister smile grew paler. '* Why, Barbara is at Caerlerrick, man I Do you know that ?" Mr. iiosperis planted this scorpion's sting in Oliver's heart with cool skill, and with that pale smile just flitting away from his lips, leaving them grave and stern. " Great heavens !" Oliver says aghast, " how do you know who is there ?" "It is but a guess at present, not a knowledge yet." " But you can't think " Oliver begins hurriedly, then stops and stares at Walter as though only now just cognizant of his presence. " That jealousy can stab ?" concludes Mr. 48 Forgotten Lives. Bosperis. " I have known it do worse. You see there is just as much evidence against one person as another. It is only prejudice and opinion, no proof. There can be no warrant granted till the girl can speak." Thus far Walter has let these two talk without a word of interruption, but when tliey touch on Barbara's name with some ghastly insinuation of jealousy, which he can scarce comprehend, his blood fires up, and he demands their meaning with a wrath which takes a firm, quiet tone, simply because it is at a white heat, and has none of the bubble and froth of a small passion. Ernest Bosperis is still equal to the occasion. " Ah, I had forgotten to introduce you two to each other. De Beau voir, allow me to make you known to Mr. Lethbridge — Barbara's cousin. Mr. Lethbridge, I refer you to this gentleman for the explanation you require. Just tell him, De Beauvoir, why there is reason to think his cousin would be jealous of Miss Carteret." The situation for Oliver is cruel, perplex- ing, irritating in the extreme ; there is not a word upon his tongue, and all his nerves are as full of stings as if a thousand scorpions were at work upon his flesh. Walter's eyes Forgotten Lives, 49 devour him with a disdainful anger, and fix him like a pinned butterfly as he stands quivering. ''Bosperis!" he cries at last, "this is most unfair !" " Xot at all," returns that cool gentle- man. "Last week I asked you to account to me for your miserable, hollow, selfish flirtation with a girl too good for you. Now I say, answer for it to her cousin, and confess that you have acted a mean, pitiful part. You have made a pastime of the affections of a high, pure nature — too high for you to understand; you have wrung, galled, and tortured a girl's heart for a little play for yourself. And it has ended in murder ! That is all I have to say on the matter." And turning on his heel he walked to the window, and leaned out as if he needed sunlight and air. Thus Oliver was left still face to face with the " bowie-knife cousin," the sincere, patient, hard-working man who had loved Barbara all his hfe ; and if ever a male flirt could feel shame, if ever compunction, regret, honour, and the ghost of chivalry could find room to breathe in a mass of human vanity and conceit, they strove now VOL. III. 4 50 Forgotten Lives. for a fciint life in Oliver's soul, and stabbed it through and through. Some men require to be punished for their sins before they feel them. As he looked on the pain, the suffer- ing, the anger on the frank, brown face of Walter Lethbridge, his own smaller heart winced beneath the thought of his greater worth, his greater love, and never did that vain light heart care so much for Barbara as now, when it felt it would have been a glory to have Avon her from such a rival — as now, when it felt that Barbara was lost to him for ever. " I esteem — I respect Miss Lethbridge," he said with stammering lips, " but I never had any reason to suppose she — she dis- tinguished me particularly, and — and on ]ny part nothing serious " " Don't you call murder serious ?" asks the cold calm voice at the window. ''What has that to do with it ?" And Oliver turns with fierce agony on the speaj^er. '' Everything ! I say jealousy has done tliis deed. Why should Sir Cuthbert Tre- gethas slay his wife's daughter ? There, go to your next magistrate and lay your ac- cusation against him. Mr. Lethbridge's quarrel with you can wait." Forgotten Lives. 51 " Ah, go," "Walter says quietly. '•' I will speak to my cousin first, and to you after- wards, Mr. De Beauvoir." ' Oliver makes a desperate, an ignominious retreat, and feels it in every nerve of his body as he departs. Mr. Bosperis watches him go with a strange pallid smile of triumph . " Successful 1" he murmurs to himself. " I was not mistaken in his vanity. I thousrht I could make him believe one crirl would stab another for his sake. He will leave Sir Cuthbert alone to-day." He turns towards Walter with sudden cheerfulness. '' I have played on that lad's feelings a little because I want time — for — for Sir Cuthbert and myself. I saw by your face you perceived at last I was practising a grim jest on him. He does not understand yet that Barbara Lethbridge would not touch the .life even of a worm for his poor sake. Neither will such a nature as hers suffer a single scar from the loss of a mere dream. He touched her romantic head, never her sound, steady heart. I have ex- aggerated the whole affair to frighten him. Not that the boy is bad ; his worst fault is 4—2 UNIVERSin OF ILLINO'S r^'^'^RY 52 Forgotten Lives, vanity. You may freely ' forgive liim, Mr. Lethbridge ; lie is sure to end miserably by marrying some sharp, ugly vixen — or you may knock him down. I am indifferent which you do." "I will wait/' Walter says, rather grimly, "before I choose." "Yes, wait; that is exactly what I ask you to do. I am not my own master. I cannot answer a single question till I have leave from the madman yonder. Meanwhile believe that Barbara is more to me than to you. That is why she has left me and joined my foes." Again came his old smile, wan, cheerless, and bitter ; again his old look of haggard weariness settled on his pale face. " Will you accept the hospitality of Bosanken, Mr. Lethbridge ? I cannot offer cheerfulness or society, but plenty and the blue devils are at your service." Walter declines with thanks. " I wdll sit at your board when I feel I can do it pleasantly. Until I have seen Sir Cuthbert Tregethas, and all this is cleared up, I prefer my own company at an inn." "Perhaps you are right; and take that sepulchral cabinet with you — it may be Forgotten Lives. 53 asked for at Caerlerrick. As for myseif, I begin not to care mucli what tliey do, or what is done, except the wound given to that poor girl ; let us hope, let us pray, she will live/' A white shadow settles down on his worn face, and Walter sees it grow colder and greyer as he takes his last look at his host at the great doors of Bosanken. ***** '' Iss sure, sir, my Billy is better. He can speak now ; you can see ^un if you've a mind to." So Walter stoops his head and enters the little cottage — a den, yet a human habita- tion — clob walls, a thatched roof letting in the rain, two rooms, one above, one below, and windows the size of a schoolboy's slate. A limestone floor in the lower room full of holes and slush ; the woman wears her pattens as she slops about in it; a little straight ladder leading to the upper chamber. As Walter climbs this he thinks of the vast country he has just left, and wonders the poor do not, in one mighty exodus, quit a straitened land and leave the rich alone in their greed and their grandeur. In this 54 Forgotten Lives. island, wliere not a cabbage can be grown without a rich man's leave, not a cottage built, not a tree felled, not a stick cut from a hedge, it is a hard tiling for a poor man not to be a liar, and a sneak, and a coward. If he is neither of these, and honesty and truth stick to his soul by a miracle, then he is a poor witless, scared, bewildered creature, doing his daily work in the harness of custom like an animal ; and when he is old, put like a worn-out animal on half-rations, and starved through his old age on his pauper's pay of two shillings a week, till his hard, dull life gutters down in darkness, hunger, cold, and misery. Yet a little while, and the rich idle world will wake up to find labour the dearest thing upon the earth. By that time the working- hands of England — a mighty army, full of skill and strength — will be gone elsewhere, to a place where they find the land free before them, and laws beneath which they can breathe and live. Walter bends now over a little truckle- bed, and looks down on a forgotten life. He is only a poor boy, ignorant as a colt — a widow's son — and if he died to-morrow no one would care but her. There would be a great Forgotten Lives. 55 gap in her forgotten life, a broken heart, an old age of drudgery and starvation — having no son to work for her — and then a pauper's grave. None of all this would matter any- thing to the world. The rich have pierced themselves through with many sorrows by their passions, and brooding over these their hot hearts cannot feel a touch of charity. Lady Theresa " in silk attire" sits by the sea in bitterness ; Oliver de Beauvoir soothes his irritated nerves by the dearest and finest cigars, and floats off upon the bubble of his vanity into a dream that two girls are dying for him ; Ernest Bosperis strangles serpents, who spring to Kfe again at a thought and gnaw him even as he sleeps. So it happens that no one but Walter Lethbridge thinks of showing kindness to the poor boy, who was nearly killed on the day of the great storm. Very bewildered still is that boy's brain as he sits up in his poor bed and stares at his visitor. '' Wot a flash !" he says, seeing the light- ning again in his shaken head. *' Stop 'un ! stop 'un ! Stop the hoss somebody, for dear marcy's sake !" " He is a bit whizzy in his head still, sir," 56 For gotten Lives. the widow says, with an apologizing curtsey. " The doctor says — it is the parish doctor, sir — he wont come to hisself for another week." " Can he eat and drink ?" Walter asks. '' Yes, sir, when heVe got it. I'm most mazed sometimes to get a meal's mait for 'un He eddn't so walk and whizzy in his head like after he eats a bit of victuals." " I should like to see him eat a good basin of soup." And Walter sends the woman with a note to the inn where he is staying in the little fishing village at the foot of the cliff. Back comes a tray piled with good things. The poor dazed boy eats and drinks, and decidedly his head is not so " whizzy" after that satis- factory repast. Now and then he looks at Walter with a pale inane smile of immense content, gradually the horse and the light- ning get out of his brain, and the real actual things present creep into it. " I told 'ee he got sensible like over his dennar," and the mother beams with glory and satisfaction. ''' Gev' me mee trouses," the boy says, with a sudden burst of intelligence. "Now, my dear Billy, do'ee lie down. Thee custn't go out, thee'st a dale too walk." Forgotten Lives, 57 '' Gev' me mee trouses, I say/' The garment is brought to him — ragged fustian, dirty — he dives a whitened trembling hand into the pocket. " My nuts is gone, but here's the letter." Barbara's writing flashes before Walter's eyes — there is a pang in it now he never thought to feel — and he reads Lady Theresa's name on the address with a pained recol- lection of her relationship to Oliver. " Who gave you this letter ?" " The young lady in the wood outside the ould chapel ; and she says, ' Take 'un to Bosanken and the boss, and ride ^un kearfuL' Hi ! hi ! wot a flash ! Stop 'un ! Stop the boss ! stop 'un ! Jimmery Cri' ! Stop 'un !" The poor " whizzy" head is shaking about on its hard pillow again, and it is a long hour before the dazed brain grows quiet, and Billy falls asleep and forgets his terror and pain. # * -;:^ ':^ * Lady Theresa receives Walter unwillingly, coldly. Her eyes are heavy with unshed tears, her cheeks are wan and white as snow ; she is greatly changed in these weary days of waiting. She reads the letter, and then puts it in his impatient hand. She has 58 Forgotten Lives. ceased to care for Barbara or for any one in the wide world except the wicked man whom she has, for honour's sake, left alone in his despair. She thought to be strong in virtue and religion : but human love is a terrible thing when torn up by the root, it lies withering in the heart, having beaten down hope and faith in its fall. " I am grieved to leave you so suddenly," Barbara wrote, " but I am under the com- mands of one who claims ray obedience as a right. I am safe and well, though amazed and troubled. I shall be obliged to wait till Walter comes before I can write to you again. Meanwhile will you say I am on a visit, or account for my absence in some other quiet way ? And do not search for me ; it will only cause anger. Dear Lady Theresa, I ani not ungrateful. I pray earnestly I may not unwittingly be made the cause of sorrow to you. I am promised you shall know all when Walter arrives. I long for his coming. I feel now how true and firm a friend he has been to me through all my forgotten life." Was it true ? Was the " sound, steady heart" his indeed, turning to him in sorrow in full reliance on his unwavering, unchanging love ? Forgotten Lives, 59 Walter bowed to Oliver de Beauvoir as he passed with half a smile upon his lips, and a shining look in his deep grey eyes, which made the fickle hazel orbs into which he gazed flash back a flickering wonder. Barbara was safe and well, and out of Oliver's reach. He who had been patient so long could aflbrd to wait a little longer, till the anguish and suspense at Caerlerrick should pass, and the odd, eccentric man who had caused this mystery should call his friends and enemies together and expound his riddle. CHAPTEE IV. ENEST BOSPEEIS sat alone in the room opening on the garden by a glass door. Writing materials lay on the table before him, and beyond these a pair of pistols. He had finished writing, and his worn face was somewhat flushed by his task. Two packets were on his desk, one addressed to Barbara, the other to his wife. It was past midnight, the lamp was dying down, the summer moon flooding the win- dow with silver light paled it, and wrought upon the floor waving shadows which stole away and came again like ghosts. The loneliness and silence had in them a touch of ghastliness and terror, as though Death were near, and these spectral peeping shadows were watching for his step and stroke. The man placed his hand upon the nearest pistol, and examined the priming, then laid it down quietly as he had taken it up, but Forgotten Lives. 61 with a look upon his face which told there was greater danger to his life in that quiet touch than if he stood in the forefront of a raging battle, mad with war's fever. "If the girl dies/' he said to himself softly, " this is the only way to end it. A strange expiation, perhaps, but better than the miserable dishonour and cowardice of saving myself through my enemy. To have played the spy for this — to stand in a court of justice and have Theresa's sorrow dragged from my lips, and all this history torn from me — no, no 1 never ! And why should I betray the poor object of my bitter hate — the creature who once trusted me ? Xo, no. Now I have looked upon the woe, the horror on that face, I forgive all — yes, all." He went to a bookcase and took down a Bible, opened it, and put it back with a bitter smile. "No, it is too late for that. It would make even a madman smile to see me. My God ! Here is my messenger. The girl is dead !" A figure stood at the window, a hand touched the glass gently ; he sprang to the lock and opened it in a haste that made him blin4, but as the glass door flew open he saw 62 Forgotten Lives. Barbara standing in the silvery moonlight, pale and silent as a spirit. " Barbara/' he cried, " are you come in kindness ?" A wistful smile of hope passed over his pallid face, and he stretched out his hand to her eagerly. " Yes, in kindness," Barbara says. But she shrinks away from him, and does not touch the pale hand held out to her. He sees the shadow of repugnance, of horror, creeping over all her shrinking figure, his hand falls, his own bitter, scornful smile flits back to his lips, he flings himself into a chair, im- passive and cold as ice, and motions to her to seat herself also. But Barbara remains stand- ing. There is something strange about her, unlike herself. The dress she wears is not her own, and it falls about her in grey- white folds ghostly in the moonlight, and over all her aspect there is a ghastly likeness to one whose memory is bitter to Mr. Bosperis. " So you will not sit ?" he says coldly, carelessly. " At least then you will let me know why you do me the honour to pay me a midnight visit ?" " Mr. Bosperis, this assumption of indif- ference, this pretence of ignorance, is out of Forgotten Lives. 63 place at such a time. You knovv' \\]iy I am here." " I neither know why you are here nor why you ran away. I only guess my kind neighhour has a hand in both proceedings. May I ask where you are ?" " At the gardener's house in the park of Caerlerrick." Barbara's Voice is soft, low, solemn ; it brino^s a srrey shade over the face of her listener, and a strange quiver to his eyes. "Ah, you have been there these eight days past ?" "And these eight nights !" Barbara comes a step nearer to him as she speaks, and she clasps her hands earnestly. " Mr. Bosperis, I am come in kindness to entreat you to fly and save yourself I can- not be silent, indeed I cannot. Go while there is yet time. I have received hos- pitality and kindness at your hands. Do not force me to tell this dreadful tale till you are safe." " There is nothing to fear for me," he returns quite easily. "I am past fear. I shall wait till this girl dies, then I shall escape — yes, escape them all." 64 ForgoHen Lives. " It will be too late then," Barbara says in agony. " Eose lies between life and death. Escape to-night, Mr. Bosperis, I entreat you." A ghastly smile, with a touch of death in it, parts his lips. " Why are you so anxious to send me on a long miknown journey with such sudden haste?" *' Because there is no time for delay," Barbara cries feverishly. " On hearing worse news of Eose this evening " "Ah! I heard it too, and have prepared for it." He glances at his pistols, and his haggard face lights up with a transient glow. " Mr. De Beauvoir," continues Barbara, " hurried to a magistrate and lodged cer- tain information against Sir Cuthberfc. He will be arrested to-morrow, and you — you Mr. Bosperis, will sit upon the bench and hear this charge against him, unless " " Unless I refuse to do so. I have tried to spare my enemy. I stopped that fool De Beauvoir to-day. Why will he meddle ? Curse him !" For the first time his voice breaks out in agony, and great drops stand on his brow. In her pity for him, Barbara still feels a horror which turns her outwardly to stone, Forgotten Lives. 65 and she does not speak a single word of com- fort. " Mr. De Beauvoir has only done what he thinks his duty," she says in a sad voice, '' and I must do mine." " You too 1" he returns in accents of un- utterable bitterness. "You too! Surely my cup is full ?" " Why do you reproach me ?" Barbara cries with passion. '' What right have you to blame me for speaking the truth ?" " Xone, none. I am a man without rights. Gro on." Barbara approaches him slowly, and her pale face, full of power, full of pathos, bends over him. " Do you think I do not feel what I have to do ? Is it nothing to me to denounce a friend — a man who has been kind and good to me ? Oh, Mr. Bosperis, spare me, and — escape !" He does not smile this time. Perhaps his heart is on his lips — perhaps a cry is springing to them which yearns for utter- ance, and which yet he forces back. He lays his hand on hers an instant with a light touch, and draws it back as he sees her shudder. VOL. III. 5 6Q Fo7-'gotten Lives. " When you say to me ' Escape/ you know not what you say. Suppose I tell you that I am innocent?" Barbara shakes her heart mournfully. *^Come, give me your proofs. Tell me what you know ; let me hear it all." " Mr. Bosperis, for the last eight or nine days I have been a prisoner. By Sir Cuth- bert's commands I have kept my room. I have been ill, lonely, sorrowful. I felt I could not bear the confinement, the want of air. I walked out at night in the park and grounds. I went to the loneliest paths. On the first night of my wanderings I came suddenly on a horse tied to a cypress-tree. I knew him instantly. It was your swiftest horse — the one you like best — the one with the hideous name — Black Adder. As I stood wondering I heard steps. I crept behind a clump of laurels. I swear to you it was fear of Sir Cuthbert's anger should I be seen made me do this, nothing else. From my hiding-place I saw ^ou mount and ride away on the grass silently." " Well, is that proof enough to convict a man? Is that enough to put such black thoughts of me in so young a heart as vours r Forgotten Lives. 67 Barbara gave him a mournful, steady look, and went on in a more hurried voice — " I saw you every night after that. I saw you spying, creeping, watching, looking into windows. I thought you were searching for me. I avoided you again and again. Sometimes I could have touched you as you passed. I would not tell Sir Cuthbert of your search for me — as I thought it — I did not care to rouse his anger against you. One day I heard the gardener say, he had missed a ladder he had left leaning against the high wall, where the magnolia grows. I could have told him where it was. It was lying in the glade where the cypress stands — the loneliest glade in all the park, where the grass grows rank, and heavy trees make a great darkness. You carried it thither and hid it. That night I tried to stop you ; I tried to speak, but you mounted your horse too quickly, and rode away like the mnd. The next night there was no horse beneath the cypress. I thought you had given up your search for me. I felt a load taken off my heart. I walked slowly towards the house, keeping in the belt of darkness be- neath the trees. The moon rose late ; there was only the glimmer of stars in the sky ; 5 — 2 68 Forgotten Lives, the air was very still. At Caerlerrick one light gleamed from a casement window, and at that same side — the ivied ancient side, which they think no one inhabits — I saw a man plant a ladder against the wall and mount quickly. I saw him peer into the antique casement, then dash it open sud- denly and spring within. T stood amazed, silent, not knowing what to do. The next instant — no, it was the same instant ! — a piercing cry rang out through the open window, and I fell on the dewy grass, crushed out of power and sense. When I awoke, for a moment, it all seemed a dream. The night was silent as death, the casement was closed, the wall had only the ivy climb- ing against it. But going a step or two half blindly, I came upon the ladder, dragged a little off the path, and lying on the grass as though thrown there carelessly. I dared not make inquiries at Caerlerrick ; I ran madly back to the cottage. News came flying down thither after me — a servant dashing by on horseback told it — Eose Car- teret was murdered — she was cruelly stabbed; she was not dead, but dying." Barbara put her hand upon her brow as she finished, and, a little faint and weary, Forgotten Lives. 69 she sank into a chair. Her lips were parched and fevered, her eyes looked large and bright ; her cheeks, a little while ago so ghostly white, were burning with a hectic red. Mr. Bosperis, who had watched her keenly through all*her rapid speech, rose, poured out a glass of wine — there was brandy too upon the table — and held it to her lips. She put it back with a hurried hand, and all the colour faded from her face again. " Ah, I see, you will not eat or drink at Eosanken. You are right, if you are going to denounce me to-morrow." "If it kills me I must do it," Barbara answers quietly. " Suppose / kill you?" he says, looking at her strangely. "Do you see those pistols there? They are loaded. I could do it easily. Have you been wise to put yourself in the power of so hardened an assassin as I?" For one single instant Barbara feels tingling in her blood a horrible, cold fear of death; the next her outstretched hand has seized one of the two pistols, and she grasps it firmly. " Would it be so easy now ?" she says quite calmly. 70 Forgotten Lives. Mr. Bosperis laughs out — laughs aloud — the first honest, genuine laugh that has burst from his lips for years. It ends abruptly, as if some sudden sharp sorrow broke it off, and his gaze rests on her in deep, sad love. "I like courage. I did not think you were so brave. You shame me, Barbara. Suppose you take the other pistol too. I begin to think life is worth something. Let me try it. Now, if I fly to-night, will you go with me, child ?" " Mr. Bosperis, is this a time for a mad, wicked jest?" " No ; therefore I am not jesting." And his eyes, full of a love she has never seen — solemn, awful, tender— hold hers in strange suspense. Then he turns away, for he sees on her face only wonder and a new fear. " You will not go ?" he says, with a faint smile. " I must hope for no kindness, no affection. You desert me like the rest — you do worse, you are my accuser 1" " Can I help it ?" Barbara asks in sorrow. " The story you have to tell might hang even a more innocent man than I am. Do you mean to tell it ?" " I must ! I must !" and Barbara wrings Forgotten Lives. 71 her liands together in anguish. " I cannot stand by silent and see Sir Cuthbert falsely accused." " But you can accuse me falsely j^ourself. Are you firmly resolved to do this cruelty ?" Barbara bows her head silently, but her face is resolute and white, and there is neither shrinking nor fear in her steady eyes, though she is alone with a man she deems desperate. There is a fascination for him in her daunt- less bearing, and his gaze never leaves her a moment. '' If you are so merciless," he says, " why run such risks to warn me of your intention, and counsel me to escape ?" " Your life is so dear to another. I do it for her sake. Lady Theresa lives for you, and you only." " What a mistake ! She hates me ! If my hand does but touch her in passing she shudders." " There is cause for dissension between you perhaps," Barbara says earnestlj^ " but that cause is not want of love. If I bring you word, as I can, that Lady Theresa will go with you to the world's end will you escape ?" " No/' he say s, with a strange smile, " not 72 Forgotten Lives. even if the girl dies would I escape then. I would brave it all, Barbara, even your denunciation." Barbara casts on him a wistful, puzzled look. " Then this is my last hope," she says, " and I must go now." As she rises he rises also, and bars her way at the open window. " One word more. You do not hate me, Barbara ?" " Oh, this is too horrible !" the girl cries, giving way suddenly to her pent-up emotion. " How can I help hating you, Mr. Bosperis, when I think of the innocent blood on your hands ?" His face pales terribly — her words have cut him to the heart. *' So you firmly believe I have done this deed ? You think I meant to kill that poor thoughtless girl ?" '' Not her — you did not mean to kill her," Barbara answers hurriedly. " You did not think Rose was in that chamber, and until that fearful night she never entered it ; but you knew of some one living there in soli- tude — some one you hated — some one whose life made your life dreadful — some one whom Forgotten Lives. 73 you had cause to wish dead with all your guilty soul." If it svere possible for his haggard face to grow whiter it grew so now, and yet his eyes had in them a strange gleam of pity. " So Sir Cuthbert has told you this terrible story ?" " Yes/' Barbara says, turning away from his eyes with a sense of pain. " And nothing more ?" " Only that he is my near relative and claims m}^ duty. The rest he will tell when Walter is present." " 1 will tell you something now. Once more, is it your firm intention to accuse me to-morrow of this crime ?" "Yes, for duty's sake, and Sir Cuthberfs sake, I shall tell what I have seen.'' " Then you shall not do it unwittingly. Barbara, I am your father ! Now denounce me if you will." He leaves the window free for her to pass, and going back to his seat, he shades his face a moment from her sight. Barbara is deathly pale, yet quiet ; her eyes follow him in pitiable pain and terror. " I cannot believe you," she makes her 74 Forgotten Li ives. white lips say softly ; " it is a subterfuge to make me forsake my duty." " Others beside me will tell you to-morrow the same tale. I cannot give you proof now. Ee incredulous if you will." His hand drops from his face, and Barbara sees the pain on it, the fixed lines of a long despair. Her heart throbs against her side with a new, strange sorrow, a new indig- nation and anger. She remembers those whispered stories of slander against Mrs. Lethbridge which had dimly touched her ear as a child, and her cheeks burn with a painful fire. " Your words may be true," she says tremblingly, " though I cannot reconcile them with Sir Cuthbert's statement of his relationship to me. But even if they be perfect truth I owe you no duty, no love. You left me to others. My forgotten life was not so much to you as the life of a dog or a horse. I will not tell a lie for you now, or shield you by my silence." " It is just," he answers, and he hides his face from her again with his hand. *'Do your duty regardless of me. I have never done mine, yet I am not so bad as you think me. I was told you were dead. Yes, you Forgotten Lives. 75 are right — you owe me no love, for I was glad to hear you were dead. I wished you dead. I was wooing my wife Theresa. I looked forward to love, happiness, and dearer, fairer children. Xone of these blessings came to me, or they came in bitterness and departed. Are you going also ?" And his old pallid smile touches his lip faintly and vanishes. " I am going," Barbara answers. '' I am grieved for you, but not changed in purpose. Love in a child's heart is the growth of years ; it will not spring up at a word." " I have not asked you for it. I have no right. Yet I did think once, Barbara, your heart softened to me.'' His eyes grew dark as with crushed tears ; he held his hand towards her. It was hard for her not to take it, but a feeling in the depth of her soul would not let her. " He must have wronged my mother — he forsook her and me. And his hand — what is his hand covered Avith now ? Xo, I cannot touch it." He saw her thought in her deep grey eyes, and with a wistful look his hand fell by his side. "Good-by, then. Without a kind word. 76 Forgotten Lives. without a touch from my own child, I am left alone. Good-by." Barbara could not bear this ; she turned on him indignantly. "Do you dare complain?" she said, with passion ; " you, who betrayed a woman and forsook her and her child 1 Do you know what a time of suifering my childhood was to me ! I have heard jo\x say you were happy for five years with the fair wife you had won . Those five years were spent by my mother in griping poverty ; they were spent by me in a place where both body and soul were pinched with hunger. If you are in- deed my father, then I can never forgive you the cold years of famine and pain I spent beneath the bitter charity of Saint Cecilia. You are a proud, hard, selfish man. You have sought your own ease, your own happiness, only. This last cruel deed you have done is a deed of selfishness. You sought to kill the woman you hate that you might be happy with the woman you love; and in striving to do this you have slain a young happy creature who never harmed you. I lose even pity for you when I think of it, and I will not own you as my father. My name is Lethbridge henceforth till I die !" Forgotten Lives, 11 She stopped, wiping the tears from her eyes hurriedly. All her heart was with her mother and with "Walter — these had loved her always ; pride, riches, and rank had nought to do with their love. It never came into her mind to doubt that she was Mrs. Lethbridge's daughter ; the dear familiar idea of mother could not he chased from her thought so suddenly. If Mr. Bosperis was crushed by her words he did not show it. "You know nothing, child," he said quietly. " I see now Sir Cuthbert has been very reticent. Hear one word before you go. I am as guiltless of this crime as he is, but unhappily I know the hand that did it." "How can that be?" Barbara cried. She scarce believed him. Her thoughts rushed back through those eight nights of vigil — her eyes saw him again springing within the window ; she disbelieved him. She stepped back a little space, and put a broad band of moonlight between herself and him. " Then you can take measures to de- fend yourself to-morrow," she said coldly. " You will, of course, denounce the real criminal?" 78 Forgotten Lives. " I will not, Barbara. Yon can save me by yonr silence, if you will ; I cannot save myself." Barbara smiled with sad disdain. That he should know who had done this deed, and refuse to name the assassin, was past belief. " Why cannot you divulge the truth if the truth saves you ?" she said. " Because it is not lawful for a man to profit by his own wrong. I am, on the whole, an honest devil ; there are things I can do, and things I cannot ; this is one of the things I cannot do." Barbara stood still bewildered ; his voice seemed to ring true in all its bitterness. " Then tell me who did it," she said more softly. " Trust me with the secret, and if conscience and duty permit me to be silent, I will. Though you have never done one fatherly act" — her voice faltered — " I will remember you are my father. Tell me who did it." " No, Barbara. You least of all." " Why not ?" she says impatiently. " Because I feel for you what you will not show me — a little pity ; because I feel for the doer of that deed a great pity, a pity Forgotten Lives. 79 that pardons. A sorrow seen, chilci, is a mountain ; a sorrow only imagined is a molehill. I have looked upon a woe that I never dreamed of, and having seen it I must share it. I mean to take the punishment of my sins, Barbara, even if your hand brings it on me. ' Whv shoald a livinof man com- plain,' says the prophet — 'a man, for the punishment of his sins ?' " He walked up and down thoughtfully, his face haggard and white, out purified from the scars of passion in the silver light. '' Yes," he said, his voice breaking into the breathless silence firm, clear, and low ; " I am resolved not to speak. I should be a coward indeed to reap a profit from an agony and a crime of which / am the cause. Barbara, if this poor girl dies there is but one way to end it all." His eyes turned on the pistols, wavered, came back to them, and rested there. "In a little while the woman I have most wronged — poor Theresa — would be ^lad. What a saving of shame, disgrace, exposure my death would be ! All would be covered up in my grave and for- gotten !" Barbara heard him as one takinof in the sound of words dimly, not understanding 80 Forgotten Lives. their purport. She was impatient to be gone. The strip of moonlight between them grew to be a shining width of glittering dewy sward ; the leaves shook down silver drops on her white figure ; her face looked like a spirit's in the pale pure light. As she turned mournfully away, she seemed his guardian spirit vanishing, taking away his last hope, his last hold on life, and leaving him to despair and death. A tall, grey, stony woman stopped Bar- bara in her path, and drew her back to the window. " I am come from Caerlerrick," she said abruptly. Mr. Bosperis had not moved. He looked at her with an icy stare as if she were an apparition ; he seemed half beside himself; he trembled as he stood. " I — I did not send i/ou, Deborah," he says in a sort, of ghastly way, half a whisper. " No; I have made myself your messenger. I sent the man away." "Well^ what?— rf«^ is it?" And his eyes grew dark in the moonlight; the muscles of his face quivered. '' She is dead." Forgotten Lives. 81 He looks at her with a wild stare, and holds his hand up with an uncertain motion, then staggers back a step. "Not dead? JSTo, no!" " Yes ; dead. There will be an inquest to-morrow." The blank wild inquiry in his eves died out ; even his horrror passed away in a sort of gasp, and he stood white, erect, and firm. " Well ! then it is over, and there is not much left to do. Grive this packet to your mistress, Deborah. If she sheds tears over it, I hope they'll be the last she'll ever shed for me. I shall not trouble her as^ain. And you, Barbara, will you take this letter ? You'll have kinder thoughts of me to- morrow, when you have read it. Kow go, both of vou : I have need to be alone." " I did not think you would take it like this," Deborah says, in a disappointed tone. " But there, you have a heart of ice — you feel nothing." All her old hate of her master rages in her to-night like a strong convulsion. She had expected some gratification, some revenge, in the dread message she brings, but none is given her, and from her stony VOL. III. 6 82 Forgotten Lives. face is projected a glare of baffled hatred wliich makes its grey homeliness sublime with a sort of awful grandeur, like a shadow from the eternal darkness where Hate dwells w^ith gnashing of teeth. " I have seen you more sorry for a dead dog than you are now for the woman you have killed/' With these words on her ashen lips she goes hurriedly away, and Barbara, pale, stunned, bewildered, follows her, she knows not why. And he is left alone. Memories throng around him; the early days of his life — mad, profligate days, fevered nights — come back mockingly. " What has he now for all these things whereof he is ashamed ?" Days of courtship and a mad marriage, daj^s of love and bitterness — a faded, old story now — come back with a trembling, and a shivering, and a heavy tear or two, which fall unwillingly over the haggard face. Barbara walks on silently. If the grim Deborah is speaking she does not note it, she does not hear her voice ; she hears only the pleading words which have beaten at her heart to-night in vain. They return to her like a whispered echo running Forgotten Lives. 83 through the moonliglit; and that latent mean- ing, Hke a faint second echo, which underran the surface of his talk, comes with them, creeps on her with chilly touch, catches at her breath gaspingly, then seizes on her mind and shows her all its dire sense. She wrings her hands together wildly, and rushes back upon her steps. The window is dashed open, she knows not how, and her eager, fevered grasp is on his wrist. " Not such an escape as that, father ! — dear father !*' And then her arms are clasped about his neck, and her sobbing face is pressed against his breast. She has saved him ! This forlorn life, which he had forgotten so long, has come back to him in love, and saved him from death and the '' blackness of darkness for ever. 6—2 CHAPTEE V. |N the night that Blanche Yaldelapins explored Caerlerrick in that con- venient sleep of hers, which allowed her to see and hear as well as in her waking hours, she beheld a strange, sad sight. Enveloped in a large black shawl, she crept like a phantom from her room, and stole from staircase to corridor till she reached that ancient part of the house in which Sir Cuthbert's rooms were situated. Rose had told her that the swinging door held bj that slender hand, stood at the top of a small staircase conducting to these rooms. Within these, then, the secret lay hid. This stair- case was never used, and the door at the top was supposed to be nailed up, but the fact of her having seen it open disproved this assertion, while at the same time, on any other occasion — the night in question included — she had always found it firmly fastened. Hence Blanche nrnde no attempt Forgotten Lives. 85 in this quarter to penetrate to these rooms, but strove bj another way to reach them. She went to the other end of that ancient wing of the mansion to which this Hight of stairs conducted. She took a circuitous route, through antique, faded rooms, through the old ruinous part of Caerlerrick, given up long ago to bats and mildew, where oaken panels hung dilapidated on the walls, cornices and groined ceilings crumbled, and floors creaked and shook beneath her tread. This side of the old quadrangular building was said to be five hundred j-ears old, and since the days of Sir Cuthbert's grandfather, who had built the new winof, it had o^raduallv fallen into decay. The lower storey had been put to base uses, as cellars, malt and lumber rooms, and these were all dismantled of their old glories, but the reception-rooms on the first floor were running more slowly into ruin. Still even these smelt rankly of decay. Sculptured mantelpieces were torn down to embellish newer rooms, leaving bare, blackened chimneys, down which the winds whistled ; and here and there carved panels wrenched away showed ghastly gaps on the dank walls, across which great cobwebs and streaks of green and yellow mildew mingled. 86 Forgotten Lives. Through the shutterless windows the summer night and stars gleamed faintly, making ghost shadows on Fatima's ghostly path. In many places the flooring had rotted quite away, leaving narrow graves of unknown depth and pitchy darkness, on the brink of which she stumbled, with a shudder and a stifled cry. Yet Fatima knew her way well. Never had a party of visitors explored this ancient side of old Caerlerrick without her soft step being with them, and her green eyes shining on every side, alert to peep and peer for something new. At each end of this floor there was a stair- case. Each went up to the topmost corridor of this ancient wing, in which was situate the great show-place of Caerlerrick, the secret staircase and the secret room, where Sir Malins sought refuge and died, not like a knight, but like a starved rat hemmed in a hole by his enemies. In this corridor also was the chamber of the Eaven — of that poor, faithful-hearted ancient crone who had lived so long among old-world stories that her wits wandered into the past, and she seemed to herself the ghost of a ghost. It was the staircase nearest to this room that was still in use \ the other, as we have Forgotten Lives. 87 seen, was kept locked, bj reason, it was alleo^ed, of its dansferous state of decav. This first staircase Fatima passed swiftly, a little chilly thought pursuing her of the Eaven's dead-white face and eyes of fiery blackness lying back restless on her pillow, glaring at death. Once or twice, as she crept onwards, this white face and these awful eves seemed following her slowly in the gloom ; then the girl turned sharply and exorcised the demon of her brain, and made it vanish, and laughed her little soft French laugh into the empty blackness. Still that fancy of a face, follow- ing in the room she had left, or coming coldly to meet her in the room she was about to enter, would not leave her mind. Once the illusion was so stronor that she believed it true, and told herself the cunning Piaven had certainly heard her step, and had wandered from her bed, and was following her, a ghastly spy in a death-shroud, with the shadow of death upon her face. Unable to check the thought, the girl went back upon her steps and traversed the length of the ghostly rooms again, and stood at the last door and listened, and heard only the phantom sounds which traverse the night silence. 88 Forgotten Lives. Old Primrose Behenna lay a-dying, feeble and broken as a withered leaf. How could she rise from her bed and walk through these rotting rooms, where even young feet could scarcely find a way ? Blanche asked this question of her beating heart, and her sound clear head gave her back an answer sharply, with a mental cuff which made her stand upright, dauntless, as a som- nambulist has need to be. And it was well she thus took a new draught of courage, for when she turned and peered through the room beyond, she saw, in the visible darkness, the face coming to meet her that she had feared was following. Her heart gave one great bound against her side, and then grew strong, and her shining eyes in one piercing glance took in every detail of the approaching figure. The light from an old Gothic window fell aslant upon her, showing her long hair like a silver shower floating on her shoulders, her white, worn face, which scarcely seemed alive, so wan and sorrowful it looked, and her slender hands drooping by her side. She stopped a moment by the window and looked out upon the fresh and dewy park, where the tall, still trees stood darkly, with Forgotten Lives. S9 shadows crouching at their feet, and from these she lifted her large wild eyes to the everlasting stars, and gazed upon them with a yearning look of unutterable longing, then, with a great w^ary sigh, her dry, tearless eyes drooped again, and, clasping her listless hands together — you could see the moonlight through them, they were so wan — she walked on, with face bent downwards. In that little moment, w^hile her sad gaze went out to the green earth and the star-sprinkled sky, Blanche had time to escape her sight. She drew back into the darkness, crouching for greater safety to the floor, where even if a wandering glance fell on her she might only seem an indistinct mass, a heap of rubbish among the mciny heaps mouldering in this solitude. The grey glimmer of the summer night shone a little w^ay within the Gothic window^s, and in this line of light the pale wanderer walked, standing still an instant in a scared way, when a stray sound of life reached her from the room, where Primrose fought with death. The sounds were but echoes of the steps and voices of the watchers, who stood by the Eaven's bed, mingling in her dying thought wdth the 90 Forgotten Lives. shadows of that long night to which she was going down. Evidently the pale listener recognised these sounds, for a smile passed over her wan lips — a strange, long- ing smile, as if she too would fain be at rest, and yearned for the break of morning which should come after that long, long sleep, Blanche saw her stand in the last lone room of this dismal suite, and swing the door in her long thin hand, and listen to the sounds coming faintly from the Raven's chamber with that wistful, awful smile of longing on her face as though Death were a friend, and the tokens of his near approach were dear to her. Seeing her there, the girl felt her shining eyes grow wet, and pity sprinkled on her heart a thousand thoughts and words of comfort, which she would fain have poured like balm on that poor suffering soul had she dared to speak. But it was well she did not ; it w^as well she kept as silent as a shadow, for when the wan listener let the door fall away from her feeble hand, and bent her steps again to the window, there was a shadow of danger on her face. She stood with the cold grey light making a pale halo round her silver hair, and her gaze Forgotten Lives. ^ 91 growing wild and eager, as she looked out on the green shadowy Lmd. " He is come again/' she said aloud in a clear voice ; " not for me. Ah, no I — not to see the ruin he has made. I should die if he saw me." And holding np her trans- parent hands she looked at them with a pitiful smile. " How wan I am ! I am a shadow coming from the land of shadows, where I lie dead. Let him stay with his fair wife. Why does he vex me with the sight of his false face ? God ! it is too much 1" And with a sudden, forlorn, despairing movement she fluns: her arms above her head, and her eyes looked wildly upwards. Then as they fell she fell likewise, and sat lowly crouching on the floor, her white face down upon her knees, buried in her thin hands, and her figure covered like a veil by her silver hair. She did not weep — never had Blanche seen eyes so dry and wild as hers — but she moaned pitifully, and rocked herself to and fro like a dumb creature in pain. It was a spectacle of such weary woe, such fixed, hopeless woe, having a fierce madness in its solitude and pride, that the girl watching her felt instinctively 92 Forgotten Lives. no human eye had ever looked upon it, or been allowed to look. More surely still she felt that the poor moaning figure weeping in this dry, tearless way would not endure a look — could not even suffer in her mind the thought of a human look. " She would die if she knew I saw her," Blanche whispers to hert^elf; "or she would grow murderous that very instant and slay me. It was strange how true the instinct was which told Fatima this. The proud and bitter woman whom she was watching, had allowed no eye to look upon her grief for fourteen years of solitude. She had shut herself up with her anger till it grew to be her gaoler, and would not suj3er her the sight of a human face, or the sound of a human voice. She lived, and chose to live, in a loneliness past belief, if truth were not harder to believe and tell than fiction is. And now, if any eye should see her, any voice should speak to her with abrupt and careless words, who shall say what dire event would follow ? Blanche rose up in the darkness and fled for her life. She could not return by the way she had come, as she must have Forgotten Lives. 93 passed that silent danger crouching in the window, so she ran through the empty, desolate rooms with the lightness of a shadow, nor stopped till she came to a door half open, through which there streamed a broad beam of light. Softly, swiftly as she had fled, she could not hope she had been quite unheard, though sure she had been unseen ; the sight, therefore, of a refuge was welcome. All through the dark- ness she had threaded, the feet of that wild, wan figure seemed to her strained ears to be in pursuit. Her heart beat like a hammer against her side ; she looked this way and that, and saw no place to turn to except through the open door. "Where there were lights there was surely human help. Better even brave Sir Cuthbert's anger, than find oneself in the hands of a maniac. She pushed the door softly and stole within. She found herself in the hall or antecham- ber leading to Sir Cuthbert's apartments, and she ran on to the inner room from whence the lisfht shone forth. It was empty. A lamp was on the table, and a supper was laid, with flowers and dainty fruits, and many things which showed a kindly woman's hand. Fatima recognised a 94 Forgotten Lives. bouquet she bad seen Lady Tregetbas cull that day, and apricots fresbly gatbered by herself. So tbis, tben, was the strange meal laid every evening for Sir Cutbbert, whicb be was said to eat gboul-like in selfisb loneliness. Wbere was be now? Tbere were no signs bere of bis presence. All was silent as a sepulchre, and there breathed about the place a stifling sense of solitude dreary as death. One chair was set at the table, one cover, one goblet, so tbis dismal ghostly feast was for one only. With fear-sharpened eyes Fatima per- ceives that the knives upon the board are all of silver, and the viands are of that sort that the skill of the knife is scarce required for them. She has just bad time to note these things when the soft fall of a woman's step touches her ear, a hand pushes the outer door, and Fatima knows that in another instant she and that wild, wan figure will stand face to face. So these are not Sir Cuthbert's rooms; they are hers. For one breathless moment Blanche Val- delapins stands aghast, then she sees another door, and dashes through it with her heart Forgotten Lives. 95 upon her lips, and her face bloodless as a mask of death. She is safe, but only for a time. This is the prisoner's bedroom, and she may return to it at any instant, so Blanche's first care is to search for some other outlet, some door besides the one she has entered, by which she may escape. AYith a feeling of intense relief she finds a second door, which opens upon what seems a well of black darkness, but, groping with her hand, she touches a balustrade, and thanks Heaven in energetic French, for she feels sure she has come upon that little flight of stairs at the end of the Eaven's corridor, and she knows she can escape. This gives her so much courage that she steals back to the bedroom, and glances around with curious eyes. A small lamp burns on the table, flowers bloom in the window, a pile of fragrant snowy linen is heaped upon a chair ; everything is scrupulously clean and neat, and yet an un- definable air of gloom, of loneliness, of silence pervades the atmosphere, telling every sense that none other but that sad, wan hand ever touches aught in this solitary prison. Xever' is its door opened to the outer world ; never does any step stray within it. Lady Tre- 96 Forgotten Lives, gethas, doubtless, is the watchful friend who places all things needful in the antechamber, and at night the pale prisoner wanders forth half-scared, half-savage, and fetches them. It is a kind heart which thinks of flowers for her, and sometimes puts a book, a needle, a pencil and papers ready to her hand. Does she ever read, or work, or draw? None shall ever say. The secrets of the strange prison, she shut on herself in her bitterness, are hers alone. Emboldened by the deep silence, Blanche creeps to the door, which is left ajar, and peers through with eyes like green stars. Then she sees more closely how pale and worn the woman is, and her gown — a faded silk — is patched and darned, and the thread she has used is her own long silver hair. Tears dim again the shining lights of those emerald eyes, for this touch of woman- hood, this desire for neatness in the midst of madness, and a solitude bitter as death, come upon the French girl's heart like the kiss of a mother, and she cannot keep back the big drops which fall quietly down her cheeks. The poor creature she is watching has no company but herself, as she sits at the lonely meal, which she takes but once in the twenty- Forgotten Lives, 97 four hours of night and day — hours filled for others with gaiety and light. And with a pity which rises in her throat like a sob, Blanche notes 1k)w sparingly she eats, how a .little fruit, a bit of bread, a glass of water sufficed for her poor meal. " No wonder she is a shadow," the girl says to herself; " and I think she'll soon die; she is longing for death ; the only smile I have seen upon her face was at the thought of death." She dashes away her tears, and looks and listens again intently. She is not so frightened as she was, her retreat being secure, and she has that sort of excitement and pleasure in her situation, which an in- quisitive nature feels in probing a secret. She observes now the door leading to the antechamber is closely shut, and she guesses it is locked, as well a.s the large double doors wdiich shut out the hall from the corridor. Often of an evening, in passing, when these doors were left carelessly open, as though they guarded no strange, jealous secret, she has looked in upon the table spread with its lonely feast, and wondered at Sir Cuthbert's eccentric meal, little guessing that when it was partaken of doors were locked, and the sole guest sat in ghostly solitude and silence, VOL. III. 7 98 Forgotteii Lives. scarce appeasing her long prison famine. In the silence so strangely still, .a slight sound grates upon the ear, and Blanche starts as a man's step steals upon the gravel, on the old ivied ten-ace, upon which this ancient wing looks down. Gliding cautiously to the window, she sees in the starlight the haggard face of Ernest Bosperis, thrown back and looking upwards eagerly to the curtained window of the next room, whence a ray of light steals forth like a pointing finger show- ing him plainly to her sight. She has not time to wonder, for the sound of hurried words reaches her, and with one swift step she is at the door again. The prisoner has heard the step, and she too has looked from the window and seen that haggard face. She is talking aloud, vehemently, wildly, and Fatima listens and hears her own heart- beats mingling with the murmurs of that sad voice. " So he is here still 1 He loves some one — that girl with the golden hair, who laughs upon the terrace in the sunshine. A false love ! false I false ! It ends in solitude and madness. He shall not steal another life from Caerlerrick to come home again to wither in a lonely prison. I will show the Forgotten Lives. 99 poor girl pitj and kill her. Xo one has had that pity on me. They put no knives on the table — they are afraid of me — but I have someting better, sharper than a knife — I hid it years ago. Let me think how many years. O Grod ! how can I tell ? The summers come and go, and do not touch me with their sunshine. If the heat stifle me, yet the cold shivers at my heart still. It is all one to me, summer and winter ; let them go. The days are like a dream ; in the night I Tvake and see his face. What have I to do with life or with him ? Why should I not die ? I try to starve, but they set this meal for me, and it draws me out of my den as it might draw a beast. I hate the sight of it. See ! how the soft stars beckon to me ; I long to be there, far above this pain and weariness, this weak wandering in darkness, this despicable craving for food, this madden- ing memory of things gone by. Yes, I have the knife. I can die. I feel glad when I remember that !" Her voice ceased, and Blanche saw her go again to the window, and heard the rustle of the curtain, as she drew it back a little. Perhaps the sight of Ernest Bosperis shook her wavering reason, for she raised her hand 7 — 2 100 Forgotten Lives. with angry menace, and spoke again rapidly in a wilder tone. " I could go down to him if I would, and perhaps kill him — the sight of me would kill him. One. day I stole out to see him — perhaps it was yesterday ; I don't know the days as they pass^ — they never tell me their names — but he was not here then. I searched for him at the pool, where the dead man lay, the man they say he is like. . I carry his picture here in my brain. I saw only my own face in the pool ; it frightened me, it was so white — a strange, dreadful face, not mine. I have not seen my face since — since — no, I can't count the years — they slip away like shadows when I try — but it was young and fair when I saw it last in a glass somewhere — not here. They give me no glass here. It would be cruel, they said, to let me see a mad woman. A voice at the pool called me * Barbara !' I answered, ' She was dead. Ah ! dead and buried !' " Her own words seemed to pierce her heart with some sudden pang, for pressing her hands upon her brow, she walked to and fro hurriedly in haggard silence wilder than her speech. Blanche was glad when she grew Forgotten Lives. 101 calmer, and began to talk again in a low murmuring tone. " I wish he would not haunt me. I have seen his new idol in a dream — her fair hair all dabbled in blood. Mine is white as snow. I am not jealous ; I have forgotten jealousy and love, but he should not woo this girl at Caerlerrick before my eyes. And he has a wife — not me — another fairer, younger, who will not give him love they say. If I had not so hard a heart I think I could be sorry for him. I hid a letter for her by the pool, and Deborah was my messengfer. Dear nurse Deborah ! she is the only living creature who does not forget me. I hear her voice at times at my door like a dream of childhood. I weep then ; I make my pillow wet with tears. My bands are broken when I hear the voice of human love, stealino: to mv cold heart with a warm touch like an angel's. But it brings tears — yes, it ends in tears. All love ends in tears, and bitterness, a^nd cold death. In my sleep a child comes to me and lays a soft hand upon my brow, and whispers, ' Mother ! take your rest ! I bring 3^ou rest- I will lay your head upon my knees, my mother, and sing you sweetly to sleep — 102 Forgotten Lives. your last sleep. And when you awake among the stars there shall be peace.' " Her murmurings ceased, and she sat down quietly, and laid her head upon her hand. The lamp was paling, the dawn was creeping in soft and grey, a tremulous light was quivering among the fainting stars, and Blanche, with one long last look, shook the tears from her green eyes, and crept across the prison-chamber, and let herself glide out like a shadow upon the dark stairs. She had penetrated the secret at Caerler- rick ; she knew now who rang Sir Malins' bell, she knew what pale ghost it was that stole forth from that skeleton chamber to the park beyond, and scared the rustics' e^^es at uncertain times with a vision of waving arms, and wild, white face. The sole mys- tery she had not solved was the way of entrance from the poor ghost's chamber to Sir Malins' room. She left this for another day, and, putting her velvet hand upon the banisters, she made her way in deep dark- ness to the top of the narrow staircase. Here was the closed door, but she felt for bolts and locks, and undid all softly. The morning light met her with a sudden shock Forgotten Lives, 103 as she emerged froai the darkness, and she trembled in it as she closed the door again with quick, silent fingers. " No one will guess it is unlocked," she whispered to herself; "and, even should this be found out, it will only se^m a negli- gence of hers!' In a few minutes more Fatima was safe within her own room, but her hands were cold as ic^, and her face was white as snow. ***** The adventure which befell Blanche the next day, when she rang Sir Malins' bell, happened thus : — Being still curious, she took advantage of the unbolted door to explore further beyond the little flight of stairs. On the first landing she found another bedchamber, and a small room fitted up for an attendant. She guessed instantly that the poor lady sometimes needed restraint, and was then removed to these secluded rooms instead of beintj allowed the freedom of the outer apartment, whence she could wander through the old wing. At the foot of the staircase an ancient arched door leading to the park showed her how the prisoner, at rare inter- vals, gained an unseen, safe outlet to the 104 Forgotten Lives, fresh air, and played unconsciously the part of a spectre to rustic eyes. In reascending the stairs in the darkness Blanche stumbled against the wall, and screamed as she felt it give way before her weight. But even as the cry left her lips she remembered the masked door leading to Sir Malins' room, and its communication with the park. She was scarcely surprised, then, when, on pushing the seeining wall, she found it open ponderously, and give her admittance to that place of her utter abhorrence, the secret room, reeking with mediaeval miseries, darkness, stifling air, and dust. By this way the legend said Sir Malins had entered, he having always with him a key which fitted the postern door ; but by this way he had not been able to escape from his prison, owing to the Eoundhead sentinels posted at the foot of the stairs. This door now was alwaj^s left unfastened and slightly open, but unfortunately for Blanche, in examining it, she let it slip clumsily from her hand, and it closed with a sudden sharpness which sent a thrill through her marrow. For a whole hour, with despairing energy, she tried her strength Forgotten Lives. 105 and skill against the rusty, heavy lock. But vainly ; it took a blacksmith's arms to open that old door when some mischance had closed it. Giving up at last, Blanche shed a tear or two, then laughed, and rang Sir Malins' bell. " I suppose she shuts the door at times/' Blanche said to herself, " and rings the ghost bell and gets rescued, and so I can do the same. There will be a scene most likely, and I shall go home a little sooner than I intended. Cela m'esf eg at!' We have seen how she w^as rescued, but the result was far more traofic than Fatima had dreamed of. When a cry rose in the night that her light-hearted, careless friend was stabbed by some unknown hand, the girl's breath failed her for fear. She locked her own door in selfish terror, and sank upon her knees. She guessed w^hose hand had done the deed. "^^ CHAPTER VI. E must go back a little now, and glance into the past history of some of our characters. Eetro- spective chapters are dry and should be short, but the links that bound Sir Cuthbert and Ernest Bosperis were slowly forged, and cannot be unwound in so few words as I would fain use. Many years before our story opens, the Urst Lady Tregethas had eloped from her home in a fit of despair and terror. Essen- tially a weak woman, incapable of self-asser- tion or of self-defence, she suffered the wrongs inflicted on her by the tyrannical temper of her husband with a silent meek- ness which both deceived and exasperated him. He did not perceive that secretly she was cherishing a great hatred, which swelled at last into a tide of bitterness that swept their lives asunder. Twelve years of married misery taught Forgotten Lives. 107 her deceit, hatred, and fear. Her husband was a tyrant even in small things, and her want of individuaiitj and will, her complete subjection, in fact, developed in him a hard selfishness and irritable temper, which laid up in lier cowed and silent nature a hatred, and terror of which he never dreamed. Al- ways meek and patient, a mere dummy as it were, who took hard words and cruel treatment without a murmur, he imagined her contented and even tolerably happy — as happy as he chose she should be, with her time, her occupations, her friendships, her money — it was a farce to call it hers — all at his mercy. In very truth she was more worried, bullied, and interfered with than any horse in her husband's stable or any dog in his kennel. All this went on for so many years, that earthquakes and whirlwinds seemed more likely things than a change, and yet a chano-e came. One summer a visitor arrived at Caerlerrick, whose presence brought a sudden warmth to the chilled heart of Lady Trec^ethas. This visitor was a second cousin — an early lover, the only man for whom she had ever cared. In his way, too, he had cared for her, but he was too expensive J 08 Forgotten Lives. a man for her little fortune to buy ; so they parted, and he went to India, with that mixture of small heartbreak and cheerful- ness, peculiar to the military sex. As for her, she withered for a year or two at home, with a ghostly look creeping over her young fresh bloom, then she began to feel that she was withering, and she looked forward to her future life in terror. A girl who begins to think on her helpless, professionless, friend- less career in this world grows frightened, and in this friglit she accepted Sir Cuthbert, just as a man, who has been looking out for an appointment to his liking, takes one at last that he dislikes rather than remain without position. She was somewhat broken- spirited when she married, and Sir Cuth- bert's discipline soon completed the break- ing process, leaving her less self-assertion than a poodle- dog held by a string, or a bird chained to a perch. Still, wonderful to relate, she kept her beauty. Pure air, horse exercise, and a high position do much to retain good looks in w^oman, although her home may not be quite a paradise. When the second cousin came to Caer- lerrick he admired Lady Tregethas im- mensely ; he admired her surroundings and Forgotten Lives. 109 comforts still more. Seeing what slie bad achieved he respected her, and began to have a high opinion of her beauty and ability. The advantages of her position pleased him, so much that he stayed as long as he could, and partook of them. He came a second time and stayed longer, making himself so charming, agreeable, and lively, that Sir Cuthbert lent him money to pur- chase his next step, and effect an exchange into a home reo-iment. This enabled him to give his cousins a good deal of his com- pany, and he shot, and fished, and rode at Caerlerrick with remarkable success. N'or were these his only accomplishments ; his tongue was made of silk, his words were butter and honey, his voice — but no ! words fail here — music must be heard, not written. Men with such voices as his ought to be muzzled ; they are not safe creatures other- wise in a drawing-room. To Lady Tregethas affection and kind- ness had become faded memories, so let any one imagine what it was to her to be con- soled and made love to in a pleading, mellow voice, with a touching earnestness, a simple sincerity which might have deceived even Becky Sharp or a Quakeress. All her life 1 1 Forgotten Liv es. she had secretly cherished this one romance in her shattered heart, and it grew now to be an absorbing affection. It did not seem to her so very wicked ; she meant no sin, she ckmg to her love blindly with all the tenderness of that weak nature, which evokes so much mascuHne admiration — in books and newspapers. She was too unworldly to mind giving up for his sake the carriages, the horses, the castle, and the position for which she had paid with her poor little trembling body and her ruined souL But wishing to enjoy these things himself, her cousin never dreamed of asking her to sacrifice any of her emoluments, and things might have gone on very comfortably if she had only had strength to play her part without his help. This was where she failed. She broke down utterly one day just after this fascinating creature had de- parted for his London season of clubs, whist, and dinners. Her fit of desperate weeping astonished Sir Cuthbert. That a woman, whom he had tauo-ht never to launch and never to cry, should shed hysterical tears and wear a face like a ghost, was a cir- cumstance requiring scrutiny. He made inquiries, and, as usual with servants, they Forgotten Lives. Ill recompensed themselves for a past reticence by bringing him now an overwhelming budget of intelligence. Still, even when stretched through the gaping mouths of servants, there was but little to weep for. A few tender, false words from a beguiling voice, a few furtive looks of love from narrow grey eyes, a few cat-like caresses from slender, skilful hands — this was all, but the scandal of it made Sir Cuthbert a demon. That this poor weak vessel, this despised wife, this awed spaniel of a creature, should have forgotten what was due to him, and should drag his name through slander and mud, filled him with a fur\^ of amazement. His weeping, expectant victim only lieard of his rage, his blazing ire and vengeance — she never saw them. Fright once more served Lady Tregethas instead of will and purpose, and she fled for her life that night, taking her little daughter with her. This child in her eleven years of existence had had an experience of continual terrors, and it seemed both to her mother and her nurse Deborah a cowardly and cruel thing to leave her alone at Caerlerrick to suffer her father's wrath. So she went with them, sharing their agony of fear, entreating, imploring, chnging to 1 1 2 Forgotten Lives. both with tears till the decision was made to bear her with them. Thus the first shape her life took was one of flight, vengeance, and terror. Strange to say, though his affection appeared in countless forms of tyranny and selfishness, yet her father loved her with an odd, silent devotion, and her flight with her mother was a blow which nearly maddened him. Lady Tregethas had borne a slow agony of years, but in this single night she avenged herself for all, and perhaps in these few hours her husband suffered an anguish as great as had run through all her dull, aching days. He had never meant his wife to leave him, much less his child, and now both were gone, and gone to him. He started instantly in pursuit, but the days were the days of coaching, and the fugitives were a whole night in advance. Lady Tregethas, when she reached Lon- don, went in full confidence to her fascinating cousin, and told him she had now but his love in the world for her protection. Xever was man so astonished and disgusted as this agreeable officer. It was bad enough to have his pastimes interfered with — his shooting, and fishing, and borrowing at Caerlerrick Forgotten Lives. 113 cut off, but to be found out in his little sins was worse, and worst of all was it to be asked to make a target of his manly breast to shield the woman he had ruined from a hard world. This idea put him beside him- self with indignation. He lost his temper and unmasked to his despairing cousin a little too suddenly. The beguiling voice, the caressing manner, the tender, nameless charm which had soothed and deceived, vanished, and in their place there stood confessed an abject sou], full of meanness and worldliness, looking out upon his victim through a scowling face. There are experiences too bitter for words. Very few passed the lips of Lady Tregethas. She listened to the selfish, callous speeches addressed to her with a scorching sense of suffering, mingled with a horrible bewilder- ment ; then the wild clasp of her hands on his rigid arm relaxed, and she turned away as hopeless and silent as a woman con- demned to die. Once more she fled into black night and bitterness. AVith Deborah and her child she left England that ver}^ day, never ceasing to see the shadow of her husband in pursuit till the white cliffs of Dover sank in the sea. VOL. III. 8 114 Forgotten Lives. She fled not from guilt, but from sheer terror, sheer incapability to endure any more the bitter subjection to which she had bowed so long. She had money with her — it seemed to her a miraculous interposition of Providence that gave it; but for the last four years Sir Cuthbert had refused to let her draw her dividends. He wanted them to accumulate for the purchase of a small estate. Hence she was able, by the aid of her own solicitor, to draw a sum sufficient for all her present needs. Meanwhile the chariot which bore Sir Cuthbert and his griefs to London broke down, and he was laid up with fractured bones through many slow weeks. In this breathing time the fascinating cousin, in too much haste, effected a second exchange, and went back to India, so stuffed with disgust and an outraged sense of injury that they preyed on his fine constitution, and he fell a martyr to fever and virtue a few months after his arrival at the delightful steaming station^ wdiere his re^^iment smoked, swore, danced, and died. Unfortunately he gained no credit for his magnanimous conduct. The newspapers declared Lady Tregethas had accompanied Forqotten Lives. 115 him to India, and before iie could deny this statement with proper feeling and indignant morahty, aU statements were closed up for him in that one short word — deatli. Sir Cuthbert was one of those men who believe newspapers, and he continued to do so long after Lady Tregethas' trustees under her marriage settlement informed him she was not in India, and they intended to pay her her small income in spite of his inter- diction. It must not be supposed he made no effort to recover his child. All the machinery of that hard English law, which deprives mothers of all right and title to their own children, was set wickedly to work. Ac^ain and as^ain Sir Cuthbert was declared the only lawful guardian, the sole proprietor and owner, of a small piece of human flesh and blood, travailed for and nursed by that stranger to it in law — its mother. Again and again this said stranger, was called upon to deliver up to her lawful and sole parent, this said child to whom she had no right, but the woman — being, in spite of law, a mother — remained deaf and dumb and un- discovered. Finding that the law gave her no protection — and a horse or an ox might as well appeal to it as a woman — she fled S— 2 116 Foi-gotten Lives. outside the law, and even outside of Christendom. She took refuge in Turkey, and found among Mahommedans and polygamists juster laws for women, than those made by moral English Christians. Those jackals whom we call lawyers, who scent human misery from afar and prey upon it, lived long upon Sir Cuthbert's rage and pain. They scoured every land for the fugitives except the land of the Turk, and presented bills of costs till their weary client peremptorily commanded that all search should cease. Then he sank into a silent, morose, angry man, having no one to bite and devour daily but his horse, his dog, and his dependents. How he missed his wife and child when he fell into rages no one knew but himself. One sole solace kept him alive — his hatred of young Bosperis, nephew, but not at that time heir, of his neighbour, the then possessor of Bosanken. This young gentleman was a lively barrister from Lon- don, rather poor, but witty and cynical. On visiting his uncle he took up the old family feud with remarkable alacrity and pleasure, " going in" for annoying Sir Cuthbert, with a gusto and power of invention, which did him credit in the eyes of his family. All Forgotten Lives. 1 i 7 this, on the part of the young barrister, was begun first in a spirit of fun, but it * ended dismally. On the boundary of the Bosanken estates was a little wood, the property of Mr. Bosperis, but through some freakish old feudal law it was reckoned as part of the manor of Caerlerrick. Consequently Sir Cuthbert claimed the right of shooting over it — a right which Mr. Bosperis of course denied. Hence this bit of ground became a battle-field for rival keepers and a constant " refresher " to the two gentlemen of their mutual enmity. At length, one crisp Octo- ber day Ernest Bosperis, and his cousin Stephen with their men, met Sir Cuthbert and his men, face to face on this disputed ground. Words of the courteous bitter sort passed at first between the chief belligerents ; but Sir Cuthbert's fierce temper, envenomed now by solitude, slander, and the want of legitimate victims, soon broke all bounds, and the altercation took a very angry aspect. When words grow fast and furious the blood tingles, and fists are apt to strike out as if some peculiar muscular arrange- ment attached them to the movements of the tongue. Xo one knew who struck the 118 Forgotten Lives. first blow, but there was a figbt among the adherents of each party before Ernest Bos- peris bad finished the " retort courteous " in which his cynical lips delighted. He did his best to keep his hands in his pockets, but in the melee his young cousin Stephen was cruelly struck down ; then he rushed to the rescue and hit his assailant to the ground with the butt-end of his gun. In doing this a fist fell upon his back ; he turned and met it, and was soon in the thick of the fight, calling out upon everybody at the same time to keep the peace. This affray led to indictments and counter- indictments, and Sir Cuthbert was powerful enough to get Ernest Bosperis committed on a criminal charge, the man who went down before his gun having received a cruncher which nearly deprived him of life. His apparently dying condition made the magistrates refuse bail, and so the young barrister, for six weeks, till the ses- sions, fretted his soul in prison, and began to hate Sir Cuthbert in downright earnest. He was acquitted, of course, at his trial, and the man with the broken head, now healed, was arraigned in his place for the blow given to Stephen Bosperis. As this man belonged Forgotten Lives. 119 to the class for whom prisons are built, it would have been an obvious folly not to give him the benefit of one of them. Ac- cordingly he was condemned to six months' imprisonment with hard labour, and went through his term in a state of dull wonder at the fact that being half-killed was not thought punishment enough for him, which was quite amusing and useless. It was rather funny, too, that his wife and children also spent these six months in prison. But then, of course, they were oiily in the workhouse, and the overseers sent them all back to him on the J03^ful day of his return to his bare and hungry cottage. It was a little singular that the dim, aching sense of injustice, which had haunted him in prison, followed him into the renewed freedom of that toil which brought him six shillings a week. It was ascribed to his broken head — always rather queer — and to the same cause was set down his fallins: into a consumption, and dying a year after his release. He himself, in talking with his wife over her permanent sojourn in the workhouse after his departure, affirmed the cause to be prison anxiety, prison air, prison closeness. 120 Forgotten Lives. But we all know the opinion of a man who has not graduated at a university is worth nothing ! This poor creature had no know- ledge beyond his work. He had ploughed, sown, and reaped hundreds of acres of corn for other people to sell and eat. Nothing more useful than this had he done all his life. He had no place in society at all. What could he know beyond the clods among which he toiled ? We want books, statistics, newspapers, and politicians to tell us why poor men die. It is low and radical to ask the poor men themselves any ques- tions on the subject. The mournfullest event which grew out of this " pretty quarrel " Avas not this poor gaolbird's death, or the pinched hungriness of his six children in the union, or the dismal days of his wife washing pauper clothes from morning till night, but the sickness and death of handsome young Stephen Bosperis. His broken rib caused some internal injury from which he lan- guished many a sorrowful month, and died at last with a suddenness appalling to his still hoping father. His death made a great sensation, and excited enormous sj^mpath}^ Every one execrated the consumptive clod- Forgotten Lives. 1.21 pole — he was not quite dead then — and as Sir Cuthbert had now shut himself up and gave no dinners and parties, he was exe- crated also, and the shadow around him grew deeper and deeper. Half the county, out of respect to the large property to which he was heir, went to young Stephen's funeral, and all of them who could, shook hands with Ernest after- wards, with a gleam of congratulation lurk- ing in their mammon-loving eyes. He was not particularly glad himself — I don't know why — but he wasn't glad, except that he found himself walking out of the church- yard instead of lying down coldly in it like his poor young cousin. His son's death and the manner of it made Mr. Bosperis add a curious codicil to his will, wherein he declared it to be his wish that no alliance should ever take place between his line and a Tregethas. And in order to prevent so unlikely an occurrence, he left all his unentailed estates to certain trustees, to hold for Ernest until his mar- riage with a lady not a Tregethas. But should he, in spite of this prohibition, make such a dreadful alliance, the estates passed to a distant cousin, Lady Theresa de Beau- 122 Forgotten Livet voir, and the issue of siicli marriage only in- herited tlaat portion of the property which was strictly entailed. Still further to hinder such a catastrophe, Mr. Bosperis desired that in that case Bosanken should be torn down, and his nephew and family should reside out of Cornwall. Ernest Bosperis scarcely needed the addi- tion of his uncle's hatreds and griefs against Caerlerrick : he had enough of his own. His six weeks' imprisonment and the cause of it, embellished by county scandals, cost him the regard of a noble lady to whom he then thought himself deeply attached. Perhaps she was glad of an excuse to throw him over for the marquis she married ; at all events her high family gave him the cold shoidder, and she herself left his angry letters un- answered. Feeling very galled, and being now free to quit his profession, he went abroad with a liberal allowance from his uncle, and travelled through Italy, Greece, and Turkey. CHAPTEE YII. HERE is no need to enter into the circumstances which brought the Kves of the young BarbaraTregethas and Ernest Bosperis in contact. They met at Pera, and being struck with her beauty, he gained a footing in her mother's house by a doubtful introduction. Lady Tregethas called herself Linton, and assumed to be an L'ish lady; she avoided all mention of England, and held herself secluded from all English society. Solitude brings its shadows, and the ugliest of these is the suspicion of one's neighbours. Man has a natural tendency to hate the unknown, and never does this feeling develop itself with more force, than when it pours down its contempt on the head of some nameless, or obscure people, who are guilty of the crime of not being known. The heartless, the idle, the rich, who make society, have onl}^ to say, " I 124 Forgotten Lives, don't know them/*' and forthwith a black mark is written against their names, and they are outside the pale, free game to the lawless. Mrs. Linton led a perfectly harmless life, doing as much good as her ill-health and innate weakness would permit, but she was as unvisited as if she had the plague. This was quite sufficient reason why young tra- vellers bent on amusement, should consider her beautiful daughter in the shadow of that disrespect, in which the chivalry of man usually regards the unprotected. Ernest Bosperis was as selfish and as lightly cruel as most other young men, and he had, besides, a dash of Don Juanism and daring in his composition. Hearing Mrs. Linton would never receive an Englishman, he grew his beard to a point, and entered her house as an American, and dropping his surname, he called himself simply Mr. Ernest. To deceive doubtful people out of society seemed in his ej^es a very venial sin. He was bent on a little amusement, nothing more, but to his surprise Barbara Linton grew to be a serious thought in his life. Her high-bred simplicity, her perplexing, wonderful inno- cence, made her believe every word he Forgotten Lives. 125 littered. She took his devoted attention as the sign of a real affection, and gave him in return one of those constant, agonizing pas- sions, which only a thoroughly unworldly, unconventional girl can feel. She never asked if he was rich or poor, noble or simple, true or false ; she took him for what he appeared to be, and loved him with all her heart, like a fool, or an angel, and like no woman ever should love her hard anta- gonist — man. Such a love was dangerous to her, and her lover knew it. He began magnani- mously to think of leaving her, and took great credit to himself for the thought. But the deathly change which passed over the girl's face when he talked of parting, made him generously propose to himself to give her a little more of his time and atten- tion. He stayed, and made the discover}^ that Barbara's innocence and pride were greater even than her love. There was something strange in her silent melancholy pride — some secret he could not fathom — but it was a town perfectly impregnable — it set a fence, as it were, of spiked iron around her which enhanced the ardour of the foe. I hope no one will take offence at the word. 126 Forgotten Lives, It is a bitter and a true one. Man is the natural enemy of woman; she is his prey, his prisoner, his slave, all over the world. For him she is shut up in harems and zenanas ; for him she is denied freedom, education, wealth, profession, and means of bread. For him, and by him, she is coerced, slandered, frightened, robbed, and sold, either openly or secretly, in every Christian or un- christian country in this dimly awakening world. Among heathens and savages she is treated as a beast of burden, and does the lowest and the hardest drudgery. Among Christians and gentlemen she is systemati- cally and lawfully robbed, and occasionally beaten and murdered. Her work is ill paid, and specially arranged with the view of giving her no honour, no position, no wealth. Should any work of hers be of value, and the price of it be worth pocketing, it is her master's, not hers.* If wit, intelli- gence, poetry, are grudgingly acknowledged at last as hers, dimly breaking through the cruel load of ignorance laid upon her so long; then man stands upon his physical streno'th alone, and knocking her down * By a recent law 200Z. is the limit of any snm a wife can possess by gift, legacy, or profit. Forgotten Lives. 127 as his lasL argument, he wins like an athlete. This brutal truth of muscles and sinew is bursting out througli the gloss of flattery, the falsehood of politeness, and the bare and ugly fact must be f^iced bravely. "Who -svould be free Themselves must strike the blow. May Pleaven aid those noble women and men who are espousing the cause of the weak, and striving for better laws and hap- pier customs for that half of the human race, which has the motherhood of the whole laid on it in sorrow and pain. In India and China there does not live a single human voice, which would dare to speak out aloud, the horrors and the suffer- ings inflicted on girls, wives, and mothers. Deliberately these last choose death rather than life for their female children, and thousands of infants of the " protected/' " cherished," " beloved," sex perish yearly by violent hands laid on them in mercy, to spare them the anguish of existence. What a (caustic, bitter satire is this upon the happiness offered to these women in marriage ! Hov/ small must be the fliith of these mothers in the love of man ! 128 Forgotten Lives. Yerily the whole female soul throughout the universe awakes, and asks if that be love which sells, robs, imprisons, and beats ? The love which says : Your money is mine, your wages are mine, your jewels and clothes are mine, and you are mine, sounds so much like other things with ugly names — such as greed, tyranny, and cruelty — that it begins to be a growing question secretly among women, whether they might not find themselves happier without it. A sickly widowed mother is no great pro- tection to a girl. Man, being a chivalrous animal, does what he likes in widows' houses, and departs when he pleases — his conscience, like a charm, keeping him in peace. Ernest Bosperis quitted Pera at last, but not until he had persuaded the pas- sionate girl who loved him to marry him secretly. Their marriage took place on board a British ship, the ceremony being performed by an easy friend, who was schoolmaster and chaplain. Whether it was a legal marriage or not let lawyers say, the names of both parties being false. Ernest Bosperis scarcely meant it should be legal, and yet had a strange shadowy inten- tion of making it so one day. His wife Forgotten Lives. 129 married under tlie name of Linton. Her birth and history was the one secret she kept from him. Her terror of her father was still so great, her recollections of her fright, dread, and anguish still so vivid, that she scarcely needed her mother's constant admonitions to keep her silent. The tremendous power of husband and father given by English law into a tyrant's hand, overshadowed these trembling women even at Pera, and made liars and cheats of them in their painful solitude. Ernest Bosperis stayed six months with his bride. During this time he was by no means so happy as he thought he deserved to be. He discovered in his wife a fierce and gloomy temper — a fierceness born of the tyranny under which she had sufiered at Caerlerrick — a gloominess nursed by the solitude, and shadow under which she had lived. Her irritable pride had, too, for him a disagreeable aspect, bhnd as he was to the source of it. In his mind she took a station beneath him, and he was utterly ignorant that her mind held the same idea regarding himself. This hidden feeling, which each held towards the other, brought on mutual rebufis and quarrels, which can easily be imagined. VOL. III. 9 130 Forgotten Lives. " How dare lie treat me as if I were not a lady ? — as if I were his inferior ?" she would say to herself passionately ; " I, whose true station is so far above his !" " Upon my word," he would say, " my little princess gives herself airs. The Irish daughter of a retired boatswain — I am sure her father was a tyrannical old boatswain — treats me at times as if I were several degrees below her in the social ladder." Then would follow quarrels, tears, pardons, of all which things human nature tires piti- fuUy. Through it all she loved him, but the man's love faded into weariness, having no honour in it, and at last he left for Athens, with a promise to return, but, instead of this, he stretched his chain to Eome, and thence to Naples. In his absence his wife's anguish betrayed her secret to her mother, and Lady Tregethas heard it with a terror bordering on frenzy. Tor long years she had kept a letter ready addressed and sealed, to be despatched to Sir Cuthbert on her death, telling him where to find his daughter. How would he receive her now as the wife of this young American ? What bitter things would he not say of the Forgotten Lives, 131 ill care she had taken of his heiress ? Her life had heen a succession of terrors : this last one killed her. She sat up through one dismal nisfht and wrote a long; letter to her child's husband, confessing the story of her sad days, and entreating him to come instantly for his wife, and hurry with her to Caer- lerrick. To her husband she sent also a few simple lines, saying she was dying, and their daughter was married to a Mr. Ernest, whom she hieiv to be a gentleman, and believed to be kind and true. It was all she could say. Then her last tears fell, and her feeble hand put down the pen, and there was nothing left to do but die. Her daughter's grief was all the more dreadful, because mingled with remorse and a new agony of fear, the terror of jealousy and desertion. Her letters to Ernest had of late remained unanswered. In all her grief and loneliness she had no support but Deborah. She waited, she wept, she hoped, till fevered and almost maddened, she quitted Pera with this one faithful friend, leaving nothing that she loved, except her mother's grave, from which she gathered the solitary flowers, found so long afterwards among the few relics she held dear. 9—2 132 Forgotten Lives. The letter written by Lady Tregetlias followed Ernest, with many others, from place to place till they came upon him at Naples, in the midst of the Carnival. It was an astounding revelation to him to find he had made a doubtful marriage, not with a poor girl who might be cheated with impunity, but with the heiress of Sir Cuthbert Tregethas. He felt he had com- mitted a mistake, which must.be instantly rectified. He set off at once for Pera, and arrived there to discover his wife had departed for Athens. Here, too, he again missed her, and only reached her in Naples, where she was lying dangerously'- ill of fever. It was no time for explanations, but while he waited came the news of his uncle's death, and that codicil to his will which virtually disinherited him if he married a Tregethas. His situa- tion was now full of temptation, anger, and dismay ; he could resolve on nothing ; he could only feel thankful that his wife's present condition made a resolve impossible. He hurried her to England as soon as she could bear the journey, and here he learned that Sir Cuthbert, fired by a sense of wrong, was gone abroad to search for his daughter and a scoundrel of an American named Forgotten Lives. 133 Ernest, who had dared to marry her. On hearing this news he felt his position pre- carious and galling in the extreme. He loved ease and wealth ; he could not per- suade himself to give these up for the sake of Barbara Tregethas, his careless nature shrank from the very thought. He resolved to have no second marriage ceremony per- formed. He kept his wife in London and went down to Bosanken as a bachelor, hiding, of course, this fact from her. Once more she was shut up in solitude with the shadow of a doubtful position on her, and her jealousy, her anger, her pride were roused into a very fire of pain. She wrote to her father in her despair for counsel and help, and sent her letter to the old family solicitor in Cornwall. Ernest Bosperis heard of it and hurried back to London in trepidation and fury. Then a frightful scene of recrimination took place between them. He reproached her with duplicity in having concealed her true name, and he forbade her ever to hold any communication with her father. "While he could keep her unknown, unfound, things would be safe for him. He thought little of her being heiress to Sir Cuthbert — people were already talking of 134 Forgotten Lives. liis marrying again now his wife was dead — it was of his own lands he thought. " Then, if I may not be reconciled with my father, take me to your own country and introduce me to your friends," cried Bar- bara scornfully. "I will not endure any longer this veil of slander beneath which I live. How dare you treat me so — me — -a Tregethas ? I will not suffer such conduct from a man beneath me — a man like you, whose name " " Stop !" Bosperis interposed cynically. " You do not know my name. I have never told it to you, and never mean to do so. You are not the only one who could use a false name. We are mutual deceivers." ^' What do you mean ?" gasped his wife. "Simply a truth more pleasant for me than for you. I have needed patience to suffer your jealousy and your temper. I shall bear them no longer : it is a piece of gratuitous generosity on my part uncalled for. You have no claim on me. I hope your Tregethas pride will bear you up under the blow, but you are not my wife. We were married under false names. Our mar- riage is not worth a rush." He swung out of the room as he spoke. Forgotten Lives. 135 easily, carelessly, not meaning to be so cruel and wicked as he was. He meant only to crush her a little, not utterly ; he meant to make her more amenable to reason — his reason — more ductile to his mind, more -easily frightened into patience and silence. He was mistaken. He did not make suffi- cient allowance for the lonely, morbid, secreted life this girl had led ; above all, he forgot her pride. It was this which had sustained her with an iron strength through all her trials. At Pera, where she and her mother were shunned by the Enghsh, because they stood alone and were not the property of a man, the secret sense of her own con- sequence supported her, and made her hold her head aloft anion g^ the scorners. To have this pride struck down was the one thing she could not forgive. It was the breaking up of life to her ; it shook her brain and filled up her heart with unutterable burnings. That an obscure man, whose very name was false, should dare attempt to degrade her, should cheat her — a Tregethas — with a mock marriage, and carelessly tell her she was at his mercy, carelessly expect her to bear such a fate, made her senses reel with an ache and horror akin to madness. 136 Forgotten Lives. She did not stop in her husband's house one hour after his lips had told her she was no wife. When he returned in a better and softer mood, she and Deborah were gone, and every gift of his was scornfully left in his possession ; the poor proud woman had taken only the few valuables that were hers in girlhood, or had belonged to her mother. CHAPTER VIII. would be too long to tell liow greatly this act of his wife's ex- asperated Ernest Bosperis, and how in this mood he searched for her, and found her at last in poor lodgings, her baby daugh- ter by her side, and her senses gone through misery, pain, and weakness. It was at this time she was attended by Dr. Lethbridge, and health came back to her slowly, leaving her mind irretrievably weakened. In this state she could show no resistance to the will of another. An inert, dull, dumb patience possessed her, she was as obedient and quiet as the ideal woman of the Griselda pattern, and she was as wearisome as a load of sand, as heavy as a shipload of clay. She was no help, no wife, no mother ; she was simply a burden. Ernest Bosperis looked on the wreck he had made, and began to hate her with a great hatred. He escaped from his yoke, he went to and fro, he enjoyed him- self, while his wife, '' amenable to reason " 138 Forgotten Lives. now, silent, dull, patient, never uttered a complaint or asked him a question. It was convenient, but it was also ruin to the soul and body of the man to whom Grod has given a helpmate, not a slave. If for- tune at this time was not quite waited, health not quite destroyed, he owed it to a woman. He met Lady Theresa de Beauvoir and loved her. This love drew him out of many sins, but plunged him into one greater than all. With that cruel facility which the law allows, he placed his wife in a lunatic asylum, and began to consider seriously the validity of his marriage. But the English code makes things lawful on board a ship which might be unlawful elsewhere. In the matter of wills and marriages there is a good deal of sensible freedom accorded to these floating habitations of men. Counsel whom he consulted, declared the marriage, to be valid in spite of the false names. Ship law would not help a man to cheat a woman with the same ease that common law admits of. But of course the husband could try the matter, and let the courts decide. Try at law if his marriage was legal ! divulge to Sir Cuthbert that he was the American who had ifl-treated his daug^hter ! Forgotten Lives. 139 let the trustees appointed by his uncle under- stand that he had broken the conditions of the will, and see his estates handed over to the very girl he wanted to subdue and marry ? Ko ! this was too much for human nature to bear. In secrecy was his only safety. Kever must the world know that the obscure Ernest, who had married Sir Cuthbert's lost forlorn daughter, was that honourable, wealthy man, Ernest Bosperis of Bosanken. So he bore his fate grimly, and solaced him- self at times with a sight of the Kly face he was beginning to love too well. Meanwhile, Deborah and his infant dauo^hter remained in the small villa at Kew, where he had placed tbem with his wife, on recovering her alter her angry flight. Thoughts of doing his child justice haunted him at times with a satisfactory sense of virtue. If her mother would only die, his marriage to Lady Theresa would make his estates safe, and he would then acknowledge her, and ask Sir Cuthbert to pardon the past, and accept her as his heiress. As for him, he should have a son yet to be his heir. Had the little Barbara been a boy, his whole con- 140 Forgotten Lives. duct would have been different, but she was only a girl, a creature who could not inherit lands entailed on heirs male. For some time Deborah led a cheated life, thinking her nursling, the one sole object of her love, was travelling with friends — so Bos- peris had said — for her broken health. But one day a wild, haggard, frightened woman rushed upon her as she passed down the old green at Kew, and asked in piteous accents if she did not know her ? For one moment De- borah did not recognise her mistress, the child of her pride, the beautiful Barbara Tregethas. Then, with a cry of dismay, she caught her in her arms, and hurried her along till they reached her dwelling. Then, in that dull, quiet, hopeless way into which she had fallen now, the crushed, broken-spirited woman told her story. •'I have escaped from a madhouse, De- borah," she said. "And I am not mad, you know, although I have not so much sense as I used to have. I would rather die than be carried back to that place. You must hide me somewhere Deborah." Her large eyes quite tearless, being long past weeping, fixed themselves on Deborah's grey face in the quiet anguish of a last hope^ Forgotten Lives. 141 and that poor woman knelt down beside lier, and swore to defend and save lier. She kept her word. She counted her hoard of money : she had just received the allowance which Bosperis sent to her monthly. She added to this by the hasty sale of the furniture of the villa, which she disposed of to a broker, and although she was, of course, cheated, she found herself the possessor of one hundred pounds. True, this was not hers, and her master might take her up for a thief, but since the money was for his wife and child, her conscience justified her. They fled into London, by the last steamer whicli went down the river that night from Eichmond. One fixed idea haunted the weakened mind of Mrs. Bos- peris. She would go to Dr. Lethbridge, and he would restore her quite to health and strength. Deborah went to his house. He was dead, and his widow had removed to a much poorer neighbourhood. The indefatigable woman found her, and depositing with her mistress all the money she possessed, she saw her and the child safelv installed at t/ Mrs. Lethbridge's ; then she hired a poor room for herself not too near, she was so 142 Forgotten Lives. afraid of being watched ; and earned a hard living by making and selling pillow lace. This took her many a long tramp, miles and miles away into far-off country towns. A year passed thus — a j^ear of peace, which, had greatly restored her mistress's shaken mind — and then, returning after a month's absence to Mrs. Lethbridge's house, she found it empty and shut up. Grrief has no language, neither has joy ; silence only expresses these. Dumb and desolate, the stricken woman turned away, grey as death, and went to her own poor lodging. Here she found a letter from Mrs. Leth- bridge, saying Mrs. Linton — for by this name Mrs. Bosperis called herself — had gone out one day alone, and had never returned. Ail search for her had been in vain. She had had a presentiment of misfortune, for of late she had earnestly implored Mrs. Lethbridge, in case she disappeared, to change her residence and save her child for her by declaring it to be her own. Nothing had Barbara Bosperis dreaded like the lawful seizure of her little child by its father. Shrinking with all a mother's agony from the thought of being deprived of lier infant, and deeming her husband a cruel Forgotten Lives, 143 man, no fate had seemed to her more terrible for her daughter than to fall into his hands. In her spiritless, hopeless way she had so impressed her fear on j\Irs. Lethbridge's mind, that that lady secretly suspected the unknown Mr. Linton to be a ruflSan of a dangerous sort. She loved the little Barbara by this time, and anxious to save her from such a man, she carried out her mother's in- structions to the letter, too literally, in fact, for she omitted to give Deborah her new address, in the fear that some one at her lodgings might open her letter. This ex- aggerated terror caused a complete separa- tion between these two, and led to those cir- cumstances which left the infant Barbara entirely in Mrs. Lethbridge's hands. The truth was, she did not think much of the poor shabby lace-seller, who came now and then to see Mrs. Linton. She had, in fact, seemed to her so insignificant a friend, that in her communication with Walter, when she related all she knew of Barbara and her mother, she forgot even to mention her. To Mrs. Lethbridge's mind Mrs. Linton's was the old common story of weak- ness and sin. She was a lady who had run away with a ruffian, who deserted her, and 144 Forgotten Lives. her disappearance was — suicide. Keeping these thoughts, however, to herself, she holdly declared the child her own, and she was too lonely, too poor, too friendless to be contradicted. Few knew whether Dr. Leth- bridge left a child or not, and if some little smoke of slander followed the kind lady to her poor, new home, she did not heed it much. Meanwhile Deborah, feeling the child to be safe, thought only of her mistress. " She will escape again," she said to herself, " and she will come to me. I must stay where I am, at a place she knows." Henceforth Deborah wandered no more to pleasant country villages. She sat all day in her room, working at her threads of lace, growing grey, silent, and strong as a rock, and just keeping body and soul together by her toil — no more. She was right in her instincts. Her mistress escaped again, greatly changed this time, crushed in spirit through the terrors and cruelties of the asylum, and through long use to its deadly monotony and soli- tude, shrinking morbidly from every eye. In fact, lonely imprisonment, added to her broken pride, had implanted in her broken pride, had implanted in her a rooted abhor- Forgotten Lives. 145 rence of being seen, wliicli now grew into a downright madness. Even Deborah's pre- sence kept her from eating food, and she would sit for hours with a shawl thrown over her face ; feeling reassured, perhaps, by this screen of solitude and darkness. To this pass had the tyranny and love of two men brought a proud and sensitive woman. If I were not telling the truth, the bitter truth, I would not venture to place in a fiction such a character as this poor Barbara Tregethas. Father and husband — to whom, according to all theories, she should have clung for support, were the men from whom she had fled in terror; the men who had used the enormous power given them by law and custom only to crush and wound a shrinking nature, a sensitive proud heart. It was only at night, and with her face quite hidden, that she had courage to speak. Then she told Deborah, how she had been accosted in the street by the proprietor of the Lunatic Asylum from which she had first escaped ; and how, walking cautiously by her side, he had soothed and deceived her — till he reached his carriage, a few paces beyond the spot where they had met ; then VOL. III. 10 146 Forgotten Lives. lie seized her suddenly by the arm, and lifted her within it, before she had time to utter a cry. " I was speechless for days after that,'* the poor creature said, with a little dry sob on her veiled lips. " I never answered a word to all their questions. I don't know how the time went by. One day I saw Ernest. I covered my face with my hands^ and never took them down all the time he stood by me." " 'Where is the child ?' he said. " ' Dead !' I answered ; ' and I am glad of it.' " So am I,' he said, ' if it is true. Who buried her ?' " * The woman where I lodged.' " ' Where does she live ?' he asked. "'I don't know!' I said. " And not another word could he get from me but this. He questioned and cross- questioned me in vain. I was careful not to utter Mrs. Lethbridge's name, not to let fall a hint I had been with her. My little girl is safe, Deborah ; he believes her dead ; it was the first thing I said when I roused myself to speak at the Asylum. We'll go and find her in a day or two." Forgotten Lives. 147 She always said this, and Deborah always answered simply " Yes/' not daring yet to tell her, that she was ignorant of the little Barbara's dwelling-place. " Tell me more," Deborah nrged. " Had Mr. Ernest no kind look or word for you ?" " No, he hates me ; he called me mad." ' Put down your hands, and let me see your face,' he said sneeringly ; ' it was handsome once.' I did not feel the sneer, or care ; I am past that. * There is no beauty on it now,' I answered, ' and you shall never see it again while I live. Look on it when I am dead, and remember it is the face of a Tregethas ; and my father's vengeance will reach you yet, for the dishonour and ruin you have brought on me.' 'If you have any pride left in you,' he returned, ' you'll scarcely tell them here you are a Tregethas. But there, you are mad, they'll not believe you, even if you do drag that old name down into the disgrace of such a position as yours.' Perhaps afterwards he felt ashamed of those cruel words, for seeing me silent and shivering he held out his hand and said, ' Good-by, Barbara, get better if you can ; they'll be kind to you here.' I took no notice of his farewell, no notice of his 10—2 148 Forgotten Lives, hand. I kept a dead silence, and he went away carelessly as he had come. Deborah ! when he was gone — God ! when he was gone, then I was mad indeed. "When I thought of him, so happy, so hand- some, so rich and free; going where he would, doing what he listed, while he had bound me fast in misery and iron, and put shame and dishonour on my head to make even my prison harder for me than it might be ; then I cursed him, and wondered that God ever let a woman be born into the world. I remember nothing more for a long, long time ; but when I woke again to myself I was in a bright green garden, and 1 felt glad of the sunshine. Mr. Ernest had had me removed to this new place they told me, and if I was quiet, I might walk here often. Oh, Deborah, I was quiet enough! I was patient, and meek and dumb as a beaten dog. I was often beaten, for these asylums are cruel places, and we poor crea- tures are at the mercy of attendants and hard masters. Often I have sat for hours, too miserable to move, too weary for tears. At times a horrible cry came out of my heart ; and I said, God is unjust to woman ! He has put her in the power of man — man Forgotten Lives. 149 so cruel to all creatures, but cruellest of all to the one given him as a companion." This last thought will show that Barbara Tregethas ought still to be reckoned among the lunatics. Sane people, being mostly obtuse, and without that touch of madness which reflects and wonders, always accept without question the existing order of things. Thus wrong becomes to them right through mere force of stupid habit ; and a certain stolid selfishness settles down upon, them, through which they have no desire to break, in search of a remedy for sufferings which do not touch them. Why should they care to inquire into the wrongs and disabilities which crush poor womanhood? Why care that girls at orphan asylums are so ill-educated, ill-fed, and ill-clad? Why care that pauper children are condemned to ophthalmia, and the dejection of loveless lives, herded and numbered like cattle, with never a kiss and never a laugh to cheer them ? Care ! We do not care for such insignificant, uninteresting creatures ; we like to hear gossip about kings and princes, and a touch of slander makes our eyes shine. Sane men seek for power and make money ; sane women seek society and 150 Forgotten Lives. raake marriages without love ; it is only the mad among us who turn out of the stream to " behold wrong and oppression," and plead the cause of the fatherless, the help- less, and the poor. " We counted them mad," said the prophet of olden time, and we count them mad still, these chosen few who see the world rushing on as in the days of Noah, and the foot of tlie heedless dancing on the first upheavals of the great earth- quake. When it rises in its strength, that mighty lowest stratum on which the proud fabric of society rests, who shall stand in his place and not fall ? who shall abide the day and yet live ? And out of the ruins will arise the new earth, and God grant it to be a happier one for all Forgotten Lives, than the world which now crushes the weak and upholds the strong 1 It is needless to tell how Barbara Tregethas escaped from her prison — enough that Deborah now saw there was but one way to save her from misery. She resolved to walk to Cornwall to appeal to Sir Cuthbert's pride, if she could not touch his compassion. She went : Forgotten Lives. 151 she had no money for railway fares and coaches; she walked the whole way, and accomplished the journey in twenty days. No mean pedestrian feat that, especially as she had to sell lace on the road to buy her- self bread. It was a bitter day for Sh- Cuthbert Tre- gethas, when this silent faithful woman entered Caerlerrick, and laid before him the history of his wife and child. In his own eyes he was an outraged, injured man. All his rights as a father and a husband had been taken from him. A woman's ri^rhts may be trampled on, and sneered at, or denied, but a man's rights are sacred, no hand must put a sacrilegious finger upon them. So Sir Cuthbert was full of indigna- tion and wrath, his veins ran with a holy horror at the rebellion of his mfe and daughter against his power. Ids wiU, his inviolable right to treat them as he pleased. And now some low Yankee had taken ad- vantage of his child's unprotected position to cheat her with a mock marriage, and then shut her up in a lunatic asylum ! There was something sublime in his wrath ; it passed the fury of mere man, and touched upon the borders both of heaven and hell. • 152 Forgotten Lives, "None of this would have happened, woman, if your mistress had done her duty !" he thundered forth in accents half anguish, half rage. " Nor if you had done yours," retorted the stony and fearless Deborah. " You treated my lady like a dog, and she hap- pened not to be a dog. She was a poor frightened bird, and she flew away, and took her little one with her. Blame my lady if you will, but I look beyond her to you, and I tell you to your face there is not a single sin, or sorrow, or shame that has fallen upon her, or your child, for which you are not accountable to Grod. And I will be their witness against you before His throne — I who know the truth." " You are raving," said Sir Cuthbert contemptuously. But he passed his hand across his brow, as if to sweep away his agony, and the veins stood on it like cords. Long years of bitter loneliness had taught him at last this — ^that to be a successful tyrant one must have something to tyrannize over. Should he take his daughter back and hide her story from the world ? Would it be possible to cover up this dishonour with the shield of his rank and name ? Forgotten Lives. loB " Is the child of this villain Ernest dead or living ?" he asked abruptly. " I don't know," said the quiet Deborah. "I have lost sight of her for a year. I think she is dead, or the poor widow, who had charge of her, would have written to me for money." "You are right, she would. And you do not know where she lives ?" "No." " I conclude the child is dead. It will be a happy thing if she is, since she is illegitimate." *' She is flesh and blood for all that," said Deborah. " And Grod has given her five senses and a soul to live for ever." Like all tyrants, who find most wills go down before them, Sir Cuthbert respected the will that withstood him, the fearlessness that opposed him. Had Deborah come cringing, whining, and weeping, he would have refused to hear her, he would have thrust her out of his house, and denied a shelter to his daughter and repented of it afterwards. Now here was this stony woman, with sense and courage to stand up, not only for his child, but his grand- child, the unhappy nameless infant of 154 Forgotten Lives. whom lie hated even to think. From that moment he held Deborah in a fixed esteem which never wavered, and a request of hers took an honourable place in his consideration. *' Bring my daughter to me," he said ; " I will shelter her, and I will vindicate her fame to the world, and punish the scoundrel who has committed the crime against her." " If you can find him," returned Deborah. " I believe he is gone back to America." This seemed so likely, that after in- quiries prosecuted by Sir Cuthbert in London vainly, he gave up all search for his daughter's unknown husband. With his daughter herself he found unexpected opposition to all his plans, and mournful difficulties in his dealing with her. For many days she refused positively to see him; fits of trembling seized her at the sound of his voice ; and she rushed to an- other room and locked herself within it in painful morbid terror. Arguments and entreaties are alike use- less, when they plead with Fear maddened by solitude and wounded pride. She had lived so long in a loneliness shadowed by suspicion, she had been shunned and im- prisoned so long, that now her sore hea,rt Forgotten Lives. 155 turned in bitterness from tlie sight of a human face, and she hated the thought of human comfort and human society. Sir Cuthbert had at length to give way to the strange resolution she had made, never to see any one or be seen by any human eye. Only on the condition of being allowed to live her own life of utter seclusion at Caer- lerrick, would she consent to return to it, even in secrecy and silence. To come back openly to her home with a slur upon her reason, her name and fame, to be again shunned and despised, was a bitterness she would not promise to bear. " If I am to suffer loneliness, it shall be a solitude of my own choosing," she said proudly ; " it shall not be imposed upon me by the world. Society has open arms for the man who has wronged me, but there is no place for me anywhere ; I must shut myself up like a leper till I die.'' In this horrible fate Sir Cuthberfc ac- quiesced. He told himself he consented, because her resolve was a madness not to be overcome, but in secret he was not sorry for it. His pride, like hers, could not brook the thought of the world's avoidance, the world's contumely. 156 Forgotten Lives. So Barbara Tregethas returned to lier early liome in secret and by night, and was welcomed at the door only by that ancient woman, Primrose Behenna, to whom alone was confided the secret of her presence. A sense of rest came over the unhappy Bar- bara at finding herself again at Caerlerrick, but it was mingled with so many fears and so much pain, that it failed to have a sooth- ing influence on her mind. Madness grows by what it feeds on ; her dread of being seen, her hatred of a human face, her angry sullen pride, which would not bear pity, all conduced to increase her malady. Soon it became a settled custom that she was to be left unmolested, unspoken to even, in the solitude of her chamber, the door of which she closed against every hand. At night only, when the house was sunk in deep silence, did she find courage to break forth from her tomb and snatch in a pitiful way the food laid ready for her. As she sat in her lonely prison she heard the joyful peal of bells, which welcomed Ernest Bosperis and his bride to Bosanken, and not knowing the man was her own hus- band, she wondered with a sort of bitter pity how long it would be before the young Forgotten Lives. 157 wife woke to weeping and sorrow. She did not think then that hers would be the hand to bring anguish upon her. Four years of happiness swept like music over the heart of Ernest Bosperis, quieting the evil spirit within him, beguiling him into the belief that peace could be his portion. Then a blow fell that shook his soul, his beautiful boy — his only child — was drowned; and as he bent over that cherub face, as he held up the weeping fainting mother, a pang of fear shot through him that this perhaps might be the beginning of judgment. At his boy's funeral he looked up from the grave and met — the grey stony face of Deborah 1 If her astonishment was supreme at recog- nising him, no word or sign betrayed it, but as for him, he staggered and fell head- long upon the earth. The friends, however, who rushed to his aid, did but deem him overcome with grief, and his momentary faintness seemed nothing strange at such a time. CHAPTEE IX. HAT evening a grey and stony woman came to Bosanken, and was shown into the stud}^ where Bosperis sat alone. " What do you want for silence ?" he said^ abruptly. " Nothing/' she answered, " except to be taken into Lady Theresa's service." Angry and dismayed, he offered heavy bribes, but the stony woman was inexorable, and he was compelled to yield to her demand. " You know your old mistress is dead ?" he said, interrogatively. " Is she ?" returned Deborah. " I have no doubt you know better than I do." "When I last saw her, she said the child was dead," continued Bosperis ; " is that true ?" " Likely enough it is. I don't know." " Where have you been, then, since you robbed me and fled from Kew ?" " I never robbed you. Your wife and Forgotten Lives. 159 child had that money. I have earned niy bread as a lace-maker. I have been living in Devonshire." This was true, for fearing her presence might renew scandal or cause memories to arise respecting his wife and daughter, Sir Cuthbert had not permitted her to come to Caerlerrick. " I came here on a visit to-day," con- tinued Deborah, '* and saw you. I went to the funeral out of pity, not knowing it w\as God's vengeance." For a moment Bosperis was silent, then he looked up with a wild haggard face. " Do vou know Barbara drowned herself? God forgive me ! I was glad when I saw her dead drowned face." "Drowned!" repeated Deborah, amazed for the first time. " And you went from her funeral to marry Lady Theresa ?" " Yes," and he half smiled and shuddered. " And you are sure it was my mistress you saw drowned. You do not think she is living still?" " How can I think so, when I saw her dead?" His voice was loud and angry, but his eves were full of a shrinkino^ fear, and 160 Forgotten Lives, Deborah perceived that if he Lad indeed identified some poor drowned creature as his wife, he had done it with a latent doubt, which grew at times to be an agony. " When last I saw her she was living," she said coldly. He did not demand when that was ; he feared to ask the question, he wished only for one thing, silence. " If I permit you to enter Lady Theresa's service," he resumed abruptly, "you must be dumb as a stone, and as faithful as you were to " " Mrs. Ernest," concluded Deborah. " I agree to your conditions. May I come to-night?" " No !" he thundered, " give me some breathing time before I place a spy upon my wife." " I have always been your wife's faithful friend," returned the grim woman, resolutely. " I am that still. I can go to Caerlerrick to-morrow if I will, instead of coming here, and the result to you will be the loss of your lady, your honour, and your lands." She turned to leave him, but the beaten man called her back, and she knew the victory was hers. Forgotten Lives, 161 One shrinking question he asked, \yith eyes upon the paper on which he idlj drew with a dry pen. " You have not been in her service since you left Kew, I think ?" " !N'o ; she went into lodgings with her little child. I gave her aU the money I had ; she was too poor to keep a servant. I hved alone and made lace.'' "And you lost sight of her from that time ?" " Not quite. Xot till she disappeared a second time." " Oh," said Bosperis, with a deep breath. " She was mad, Deborah, you cannot deny that. The physician from whose care she escaped found her again, and it was after this she drowned herself." He looked into Deborah's grey, hard, stony face, and saw there no sign of belief or dis- belief, and his heart sank within him at the thought, that shut up in her mind was a solution of the dread doubt that troubled him. Whether the unhappy Barbara was dead, or Hving, was as clearly known to this woman, as the presence of the sun in the heavens. Well, he was resolved to believe her dead still, and he would play his part VOL. III. 11 162 Forgotten Liv es. bravely. He had his fair wife's love and confidence, what more could he desire ? Alas ! in a little while he and that fair wife lived in the same house as strangers, and no word or look of love ever passed between them. "Sir Cuthbert Tregethas cannot guess that I am the man Ernest ?" he said, un- easily. " Not the dimmest, remotest suspi- uon of the truth can have touched him." "Not yet, perhaps," returned Deborah; ' but if I could recognise you others can, and they will have tongues to tell him." " I fear only your tongue. Keep that silent at any price you choose to name, and I will risk the others/' " I have named my price," the woman said. "And have I your solemn promise that you will neither betray me to Sir Cuthbert Tregethas, nor to my wife, Lady Theresa ?" " I will be as silent as your wife Barbara, and as dead and shut up as she is. That is, if you trust me ; if you do not, I will go to Caerlerrick to-night." He had no alternative ; he trusted her, and the grim silent woman played her part at Bosanken, as we have seen. Forgotten Lives. 163 He never guessed that her visit to Caer- lerrick had been paid before she came to his study, and she was acting now under the orders of Sir Cuthbert, and in accordance with the wild wish of the unhappy Barbara. Let us try to imagine what feelings were roused in the heart of Sir Cuthbert Tre- gethas, when the astounding revelation reached him that the man whose cruelty had maddened his daughter, was the hated Ernest Bosperis. At first, as the ashen-grey cold w^oman told her story he could not believe her. She seemed to him to be raving, till she lifted her hand and swore that the stricken mourner whom she had seen by the grave of his son, was indeed the Ernest who had married and forsaken Barbara Tregethas. Then there fell upon Sir Cuthbert's heart a raging, gnawing desire for revenge. But what could he do ? If a woman is cheated, wronged, dishonoured, betrayed, a just, moral, religious world blames her, makes an outcast of her, and receives the man with its sweetest smiles. Ernest Bosperis flourished like a bay-tree, a rain of honours fell thick upon him, sympathy and respect were wrapped about his roots — love was his sky, a happy 11—2 164 Forgotten Lives. home his garden and dwelling-place ; there was no shaking him in the world's esteem, except bj crushing still deeper the victim he had sacrificed. Uncertain as he was that even any marriage at all had taken place. Sir Cuthbert felt that to expose his conduct, or to risk a prosecution, would only bring a sharper wound to his own pride, only make him and his woes a wonder to a gaping world. But there was a way, by which Ernest Bosperis could be made to suffer for his evil-doing — there was a way by which he could be made to feel the steel of a secret vengeance pursuing him slowly, and surely. This way was chosen, and he who had heaped sorrow on the head of one woman received it back at the hands of another. Lady Theresa de Beauvoir more than avenged Barbara Tregethas. From the day that the first secret letter from that poor prisoner reached her, peace, love, and joy departed from the home of Ernest Bosperis. Lady Theresa's sensitive conscience and passionate honour set up a barrier between her, and him, which he could not pass. Hardly by all his protestations and com- mands could he induce her to stay in his house, and this w^as the sole concession he Forgotten Lives, 165 could gain. Mindful of Barbara's passionate flight, and ever dreading the same precipi- tate conduct in the wife he loved so dearly, he denied with every form of speech he could invent the validity of his first mar- riage, and reiterated his persuasion that his first wife was dead. But every time the unhappy lady believed him, every time her mind grew shaken and her heart turned back to him, a mysterious message or a letter from Caerlerrick recalled her to her true position. Ernest Bosperis had not always borne his agony as carelessly, and calmly as we have seen. He turned at first on Deborah with a fierce rage, which might have appalled a less stony woman, and accused her of breaking her compact and of having betrayed him to her lady. She denied both charges. " I have never seen Sir Cuthbert since I entered your doors," she said ; '' and I have been as silent to Lady Theresa as though I were a dead woman, carrying a secret in a dead heart. Put my words to the test. Ask Sir Cuthbert if he has indeed recognised you as the Ernest he has such cause to hate. Ask if it is he who sends these gifts to Bosanken. Do it; you only risk losing your lady and your lands." 166 Forgotten Lives. That last thrust struck home. If Lady Theresa was not his wife, if she left him, half his lands went with her. The English law, which is the interpre- tation of the Englishman's mind — jealousy — withholds from a wife all wealth, all inde- pendence and power, and denies her even the right to make a will and dispose of the small portion of goods she may possess. This last prohibition has all the force of a cruel sneer flung in the face of womanhood, as it virtually declares her to be too in- herently base to be trusted with testamentary powers. Yet a male legislature has given to male testators a stupendous power for evil, thus expressed by the law as laid down by Lord Justice James in a case reported in The Times on the 28th January, 1874 : — " A man may leave his virtuous wife and deserv- ing children penniless, and bestow the whole of his fortune upon the vilest companions of his profligacy, the most worthless partner of his vices, the most wicked accomplices of his crimes, and the law cannot gainsay him, even it* he should openly flaunt his shocking disregard of all ties human and divine on the very face of his will." This, then, is the awful power given to man by the English law, as expounded to us by an English judge. Forgotten Lives. 107 In no other Christian country is such a stupendous and cruel right hestowed on the caprice and prejudice, perhaps of senihtj, of drunkenness, ignorance, tyranny — any vice or foUy, in fact, provided only it be male. While, on the other hand, the law denies to a wife all power whatever to make any will of any kind, righteous or unrighteous. Now Ernest Bosperis was as jealous of his prerogatives as any man ; therefore, if it was bitterness to lose his wife, it was bitter- ness and gall combined to lose his land, and lose it to her, the woman of whom law and custom had habituated him to think as having a right to nothing, but what he chose to give her. Once when she spoke to him of her will, he trembled as he thought what an instrument this might prove if his marriage was illegal, and if she, thus stripped of wife- hood, was restored to some of the rights of an individual ; so he learned to bear his fate calmly as it was, fearing to make it worse by anger; and he resolved firmly on this, that if Sir Cuthbert kept silence, he would. And thus the slow years crept b}^ at Bosanken* like wounded snakes, full of pain and a broken power of evil, till the Bosanken — Abode of Strife. 168 Forgotten Lives. young Barbara came, and looking in her sweet, pure face, her father learnt anew the great secret of parental love, and with it this truth — that amid the bitterest rue of repen- tance there grows that ever-fresh fair flower, Hope. CHAPTER X. T is a stransre sad sunrise at Caer- lerrick. Coroner and jury have been summoned in haste, and the sor- rowfullest council that can be held beneath a man's roof is to sit at noon in the old grey mansion. Sir Cuthbert, unlike himself, shrinks apparently from no publicity, for not- withstanding the coming inquest, the long expected invitation to attend him at Caer- lerrick reaches Walter Lethbridge, Mr. Bosperis, Lady Theresa, and, lastly, De- borah. Eleven is the hour fixed for the meeting, and all await it with hearts strangely moved. Mr. Bosperis and Walter are the first to arrive ; they are ushered silently into the great hall, and sit there in expectation, scarcely s^^eaking. A close carriage drives to the door, and Ernest Bosperis shrinks back from the window, thinking to see the pale reproachful face of his wife, but it is her brother who 170 Forgotten Lives. springs to the ground, followed by two other gentlemen. One of these Mr. Bosperis re- cognises as a neighbouring magistrate ; the other he immediately sruesses to be a police- man in plain clothes. "That meddling fool De Beauvoir," he says to Walter, "is arrived, armed with a warrant, doubtless, so the business on which Sir Cuthbert has sent for you and me will have to wait." Perhaps not though, for at this moment a servant summons them to Sir Cuthbert's presence, and they go up the great staircase in company with Oliver and his two com- panions. They pass first through a long corridor, and here a door opens softly, and with a velvet step out steals Fatima and walks by Oliver's side. " Why are you here ?" she asks in French ; then her sharp green eyes flash round in one quick glance, and she understands at once. " You have made a great mistake," she says gravely, "and I fear you wdll say it is my fault." " Why yours particularly ?" " I wrote to tell you I thought Rose in danger." "As the sequel proves she was. I do not Forgotten Lives. 171 see any mistake in charging Sir Ciithbert with this crime." " Hush ! hush ! Yes, it is a great mis- take. It is only I who know the truth. I ought to have told you more in my letter, but I was afraid; and I did not think then such a dreadful thing as this would happen." " Nor I. Poor Eose ! I never guessed our foolish meetings would have led to this. Whatever you know, you will have to state at this examination ; you are aware of that?" Fatima gives him a frightened look, and wrings her little soft hands together. " ril never be curious again while I live. Hush ! here we are at Sir Cuthbert's apart- ments." The servant has led them to a distant part of the mansion, and he now flings open two large double doors, and they find them- selves in an ante-chamber. From this they enter a small saloon, and here Sir Cuthbert rises to receive them. His tall figure, his white hair, his face a little wild and passion- worn, make a strange impression on his visitors. Lady Theresa and Barbara are with him ; both are very pale, and both are 172 Forgotten Lives. wonderfully beautiful in the solemn shadow of some great sorrow. Barbara is dressed in deep mourning ; it gives to her face the look of living marble ; her bearing is gentle and sad, yet stately ; except for one single instant, when her gaze lights on Walter Lethbridge, then her lips quiver slightly, and her eyelids droop. She' does not look at Oliver, and some indescribable change in all her aspect, to be felt, not seen, shows his chafed spirit that he has passed out of her heart, and her life for ever. " Gentlemen, be seated," Sir Cuthbert says. " I see here some whose presence I desired on urgent business, others are strangers to me." He waves his hand towards Oliver and his companions — an uncomfortable group standing apart. Mr. Penrose, the magistrate, steps for- Wcird awkwardly. " Sir Cuthbert, whatever your business ma}^ be with these other gen- tlemen, I fear it must wait awhile. A charge has been preferred against you by Mr. De Beauvoir, into which it is my duty to inquire." " What charge, sir ?" And Sir Cuthbert's tall form seems to dilate with the pride and anger speaking in his voice. The magistrate hesitates. Forgotten Lives. 173 " A young lady — your stepdaughter — has been stabbed. I believe she is now lying dead in this house. I am willing, Sir Cuth- bert, to await the result of the inquest, or to hold a private examination at once on the matter, whichever you please." " You have been misinformed, Mr. Pen- rose. My stepdaughter is better ; there are hopes of her life." There is a movement of great surprise, and Barbara catches a flash of joy from her father's careworn eyes. '' But there is an inquest," persists the magistrate. " Yes, on a dead woman, not a living one. The outside world, hearing of a death at Caerlerrick, could think only of Miss Carteret. I cannot help false reports, gentlemen." " But Miss Carteret has been stabbed, and still lies in imminent danger," interposes Oliver with some heat. " I press my charofe, Mr. Penrose. I insist on an instant inquiry." " Can we see the young lady ?" demands the magistrate. ''Has she spoken? Has she given any information ?" "None; she is too weak to be ques- tioned." " Then I must insist on seeino: her medical 174 Forgotten Lives. attendant, and nnless he forbids it, I shall take her deposition by her bedside. If she is conscious, and can speak, she must do so." Barbara clasps her hands involuntarily, and a deep flush passes over her face, leaving it snow-white as it fades away. Her eyes seek her father's, and he looks back at her with a steady mournful gaze, firm, unflinching as ever. Meanwhile Sir Cuthbert has rung, and a servant is despatched in search of the surgeon attending on Rose. When he enters, Oliver, with a feeling of suspicion, recognises the face of the stranger whom he had seen in the carriage with Sir Cuthbert on the night of the search for Barbara. This gentleman, in answer to questions hur- riedly, eagerly put to him, declares that Bose can only be questioned at the hazard of her life, and he will not be responsible for the consequences if an exciting interview be held with her in her room. " You must do it, gentlemen, at your own peril, and against my protest." With these words the doctor retires. " I have reason to think," whispers Oliver to Mr. Penrose, " that this man is a creature Forgotten Lives. 175 of Sir Cuthbert's ; bribed, perhaps. You see lie is a stranger to us all/' Fatima's soft white hand touches him, beckons to him, tries to stop him in vain. His words have their effect on the fussy little magistrate. "Sir Cuthbert," he says sharply, " 3'ou are aware I can arrest you if I please. This charge will be heard publicly, then, before the Bench. I came here in a cour- teous spirit to make a private inquiry. You must choose, sir, which of the two you prefer." As he speaks, the quiet, shabby, silent member of the party, who represents the law, shambles forward, and places himself significantly near Sir Cuthbert's shoulder. Except for a sterner, paler look passing over his face like a white shadow. Sir Cuth- bert remains impassive. " I thank you, sir," he says, with stiff courtesy. ''If it be indeed necessary that this sad affair should be investigated, I prefer, of course, that it should be done privately, "Will you hear what I have to say ?" " You had better say nothing," observes the silent man. " Hear first what the others say, and speak afterwards." 176 Forgotten Lives, This counsel, sounding so much like the advice given to a prisoner, brings a flash to Barbara's eyes. She stands by Sir Cuthbert's side, and lays her hand upon his arm. " There is nothing to fear," he says gently. " I think it fair you should hear the charge first, Sir Cuthbert," remarks Mr. Penrose; "you can make your own state- ment afterwards. Mr. De Beauvoir, will you repeat now the information you gave me yesterday ?" Oliver does so tersely, and lays Fatima's letter on the table at the same time. No- thing can equal that little lady's dismay at this. She darts forward to speak, bites her lips into silence, and rushes back again, all in the space of a second. "Sir Cuthbert's reputation for tyranny in his household, and for violence of temper, led me to anticipate evil on receiving this letter," said Oliver, " knowing, as I did, that Miss Carteret had incurred his displeasure." "What proof have you of his anger against her ? Have you any witnesses ?" " I call on Miss Lethbridge to speak," returned Oliver, with a piercing look at Forgotten Lives, \11 Barbara. "I believe she was within the ruins at the time of my last interview with Miss Carteret. She knows whether Sir Cuthbert was there also, and overheard a conversation which would greatl}^ incense him." Barbara comes forward with a momentary blush on her cheek, which dies into snow whiteness as she begins to speak. Oliver watches her almost cruellv. His mortified vanity makes him long to see some lingering love for him in her aspect ; his angry desire to avenge Eose makes him wish to hear her criminate Sir Cuthbert. Walter watches her with every tlirob of his heart beating for her, every thrill of his strong patient love bounding through his veins in a yearning desire to save her this sorrow. Mr. Bosperis watches her painfully with a fixed and burn- ing look. '* I saw Miss Carteret in the ruins that day," Barbara says, " and I reproached her with duplicity towards me. She only laughed and asked me to go into the inner chapel, as she was about to see a friend. There I found Sir Cuthbert. He held up his hand to me to keep silence. I only heard a word or two of !Mr. De Beauvoir's con- VOL. 111. 12 178 Forgotten Lives. versation with Eose/' A swift blusli ruslied to her face, but vanished quickly. " I left the ruins by the door leading into the wood ; it was some little time before Sir Cuthbert followed me. He w^as angry. I did not venture to question him on the cause of his anger." " It is enough that she acknowledges he was angry/' remarks Oliver. "We will not demand the reason." " But Miss Lethbridge can tell us what shape his anger took, what remarks he made to her," observes Mr. Penrose. Barbara remains silent, and Sir Cuthbert looks at her with a sad smile. " It matters little now, child. You may speak out frankly," he says. "I have no wish to conceal that my anger was very justly roused against ingratitude and treachery." Oliver feels his sharp piercing glance, and loses a little of his careless ease beneath it. He writes in pencil hard questions, which Mr. Penrose puts rapidly to Barbara. " Oh ! so he spoke hardJy of daughters and stepdaughters, and expressed his resolve to nullify a deed he had signed in Miss Carteret's favour ?" Forgotten Lives. 179 While all are talkiug there has stolen in among them a grim silent woman, with a face of stone — grey, hard, and cold. She comes forward in her unmoved way, and puts a paper in the magistrate's hand; he reads it rapidly, not unmoved, and shadows and changes go strangely over his ^paling face. "Miss Lethbridge,'' he says, in a graver, sadder tone, '' is it true that on making certain communications to you Sir Cuthbert claimed your obedience as a duty, and desired you to remain under his guardianship, instead of returning to Bosanken ?" " It is true," she answers. " And have you resided at Caerlerrick since then?" " No ; by Sir Cuthbert's wish I took' up my abode at a cottage in the park." " You were there secretly, under orders not to permit yourself to be seen by any one but those to whom you were entrusted ?" " Yes ; I was there secretly,'' Barbara repKes faintly. " And did you obey Sir Cuthbert's com- mands to the letter, and remain in your room t Barbara is silent. !9 o 180 Forgotten Lives. " Will you say you have stayed tliere nine days without going out, without seeing, hearing, or knowing more of this sad affair than you now tell us ?" Mr, Penrose says sternly. " I went out sometimes," Barbara replies in a low voice. " At what hour ?" She. grows white as snow, she casts an imploring look at Mr. Bosperis, but his haggard face is impassive, and gives her back no reply. " I ask you. Miss Lethbridge, whether, weary of imprisonment, you did not stroll out late in the park and gardens ?" " I did." Her voice is very low, her hands are clasped together tightly. *" You did. Then can you corroborate the statement of the gardener, who declares a man, dressed as a gentleman, watched Caer- lerrick for many nights ; that a ladder was missing, which he is supposed to have taken, and which was afterwards found in an avenue near the house ? Did you see this man place that ladder against the ivied wall of Caer- lerrick, and spring in at the window of the room in which Miss Carteret slept that night ?" Forgotten Lives. lol These unexpected questions so startle Oliver, tliat he stands a moment quite aghast ; and gives Fatima but a blank look of wonder, when once more her velvet hand touches him, and her eyes fiery with green lights say unutterable things. "It is an absurd report !" he cries out. " Excuse me," returns the little pompous magistrate, elate and triumphant, '' I am better informed than you. Take time. Miss Lethbridge, you understand of course the drift of my questions. If you can answer them in the affirmative, you clear Sir Cuthbert at once of this heavy charge." Barbara gasps for breath, the room swims round her, she stretches out her hands for help, and finds Walter's arm supports her. " Courage, Barbara !" he says. " Why should you fear to speak?" But Barbara is still speechless, and white and cold as marble. " Barbara," Mr. Bosperis observes in that careless graceful way of his, " if you saw this midnight prowler, say so. Why should you screen the man? He never did aught for you, therefore you owe him nothing." Tears rush to Barbara's eyes, and she buries her face in her hands. 182 Forgotten Lives. " It is clearly your duty to speak, Bar- bara/' whispers Walter, " no matter what the result may be." His steady voice gives her courage. " I saw the man," she says, and her words, low and trembling as they are, sound loud in the breathless silence. " Did you recognise him ?" Barbara turns on her questioner a wild look, and all her blood forsakes her face, and rushes to her heart in one great throb of agony. " I will not answer you," she says with white lips. " I am answered," returns Mr. Penrose, his little insidious piping voice breaking into a tone of triumph. " Sir Cuthbert, I ask you, whether the room thus entered was not occupied always — till the night in question — by a person towards whom Mr. Bosperis has shown intense hatred — a person whose life endangered his position, his honour, his happiness ?" "Yes," Sir Cuthbert says simply, and his voice and face are full of pain, and amazement. ''Mr. Bosperis, what have you to say?" asks Mr. Penrose sharply. " Nothing," he returns. Forgotten Lives. lvS3 " IN'othing ! Then, Mr. Bosperis, it be- comes my painful duty to commit you on grave suspicion." " As you will," he interposes with care- less calm. But at this moment his eyes fall on the pale stricken face of his wife, and for the first time his heart fails him. " Theresa,'' he says softly, " for your sake I am sorry I can ofler no explanation of the circumstances, which witness against me." Apparently it needed but one word of sorrow from him to bring her to his side. For years these two have not clasped hands, but now her chnging arms are round him, and forgetful of hard eyes looking on, she brings down his pale face to hers and kisses him with tears. For one moment her unwonted caress bewilders him, he loses courage and nerve ; she feels the arm to which she clings trembling beneath her touch, and his eyes shrink away from her tearful gaze. " I cannot bear to see you suffer," he says ; " you must not," he adds passionately. Then seeing Barbara is weeping, he turns towards her with sudden gentleness. " Do not vex yourself for me," he says sooth- ingly. " You have brought me back a lost heart." " For my sake, Ernest, you will clear 184 Forgotten Lives. yourself?" wliispers Lady Theresa; and lier tear-stained face looks into his in passionate pleading. '' No, Theresa, you must be content with my silence. Speaking would not clear me, and if it would I should still simply answer nothing to this mad charge." Sir Cuthbert's gaze is bent on him steadily, and his hard proud face grows softer. A little breach is made in the rocky wall of enmity between these two, and the elder man's tone falters as he speaks very low. " If your silence means mercy, I thank you, Mr. Bosperis, though it comes too late." Lady Theresa hears these words and wonders at them ; her husband flushes to the brow, and all his face grows dark as if with sudden pain. Meanwhile a crowd has gathered around Patima, who has at last given way to her excitement, and her voice rises above the whispering clear and shrilL " I tell you, Monsieur De Beauvoir, you are all wrong ! First you seize one man, then another, and it is no man who stabbed Eose." " What are you saying ?" Oliver cries in hot amazement. He is white and angry Forgotten Lives. 185 and full of pain. It has brought a horrible shudder to his blood to hear Bosperis accused of this cowardly crime ; the ghastly possibilit}^ that in his desperation he might have sought to kill the woman who had caused him all his woe, has appeared clear to Oliver's mind, and his heart is sick with deadly fear. " "What do I say ?" Fatima replies in her own rapid French. " You are all wrong ! It is no man who struck at Eose. Oh ! they are come at last !'* And she rushes towards a new group of figures whose steps are at the door, and with an eloquent pantomime of joy in her little gesticulating hands, Fatima takes her father's kisses and feels herself safe and at ease. CHAPTEE XL OLDma his daughter's hand, Mon- sieur Yaldelapins advances gravely and courteously. He speaks Eng- lish like an Englishman, and over all his aspect there is something of the Saxon bluntness. " A telegram from my daughter has brought me hither in haste," he says ; " and a letter of hers, which awaited me at the station, explains that she finds herself here in a strange dilemma. It was her chance. Sir Cuthbert, to discover that your house contained a secret inmate — a poor creature not always in her right mind, who lived in these rooms in great secrecy and loneliness. And my daughter has reason to believe that — perhaps in a fit of frenzy — tliis un- happy lady has made an attempt on the life of her friend, Eose Carteret. Gentlemen, I am come to protect and uphold my daughter while she gives her evidence, which I wish her to tender at once, as I hear some Forgotten Lives. 187 honourable persons have been falsely ac- cused." As these words roll over the assembled crowd, all eyes are turned on Sir Cuthbert Tregethas.* He who had lived in scornful solitude so long has now a gaping world on him eager to trample down his pride, and give his sorrow to the four winds. " Is this true ?" cry many voices. '"AYbo is the woman you have kept shut up here ? Why let the innocent be accused for the guilty ? Speak, Sir Cuthbert ! Speak out at once !" The world is on him, not at his gate, but beneath his very roof; yet in this moment of agony he remembers, if he has understood aright, that Ernest Bosperis has striven to spare him, and he holds out his hand to this bitter enemy with a strange, wild, forlorn look on his aged face. The other shrinks back instinctively, then darts forward with eager haste; and they clasp hands, perhaps with new pitpng thoughts, each for each in the hearts of both. *' Let the young lady speak and say whom or what she has seen in my house," Sir Cuthbert replies, as the questioning Tregethas — the place of the father's vengeance. 188 Forgotten Lives. crowd presses round him. " I will answer you after you have heard her." Thus adjured Blanche relates her night's adventure, repeating with special exactness the jealous words she had overheard, which seemed to threaten Eose. Then she further confesses that being curious she had ex- plored the inner rooms on the locked staircase, and she expressed her conviction that the mad lady was confined in these at times, when her stay in the outer rooms might be dangerous. " And I believe," says Fatima, " she was thus secluded on the day that Sir Cuthbert, being resolved to prevent Rose and myself from holding any communication together, led her away with him to these apart- ments." " But why did he wish to separate you from your friend?" interposes Monsieur Valdelapins with some heat. His daughter smiles, and checks her smile instantly, as if it were a sin. "A circumstance which occurred to me that day, betrayed to Sir Cuthbert that I had been exploring his mansion a little too freely ; he did not wish me to relate my discoveries to Eose." Forgotten Lives. 189 "You are right," observes Sir Cutlibert; " I had no desire to cast the shadow of such a history on my stepdaughter." " Then you acknowledge the young lady's statement to be substantially correct ?" says Mr. Penrose. " It is perfectly so." " And Eose slept in that room," Blanche says, pointing to the door ; " and the woman I saw doubtless entered by the other way." "Sir Cuthbert," observes Mr. Penrose gravely, " I must see these rooms, and that person at once. This young lady's evidence points clearly to her as the guilty party; and Mr. Bosperis will, I hope, be able to explain satisfactorily his part in this sad drama. It was to the window of this next room vou ascended, sir ?" concludes the magistrate with a marked accent. Mr. Bosperis does not answer him a word ; a flickering shade of anxiety quivers in his eyes, but his face remains impassive. " You cannot enter by that door, gentle- men !" Sir Cuthbert says, as Mr. Penrose and others press forward eagerly towards the adjoining room. " You must ascend to the upper corridor, and go down the 190 Forgotten Lives, staircase which has been described to you. • ^' Is the door locked ? Is she safe ?" asks Mr. Penrose anxiously. The question moves Barbara with a strange grief and indigna- tion; her eyes flash on the man through her tears. " Safe !" she says bitterly. But Sir Cuth- bert interposes in a grave, sad tone. " That unhappy lady is safe from ill, or from doing ill. The door is locked simply because nothing can be disturbed until after the arrival of the coroner." " He is here," Mr. Bosperis says in a low voice, as looking up he greets a new crowd in the doorway. " Then, gentlemen, there is no further reason for delay," Sir Cuthbert says. " Will you follow me? Not you, Lady Theresa, unless you wish it. I have no desire to give you pain. But Mr. Bosperis, and Mr. Lethbridge will be required to identify the person now lying dead in my house. De- borah, we shall want you also." Sir Cuthbert leads the way; all follow him silently. Mr. Bosperis springs to Barbara's side and bends down and whispers. "What is the meaning of this, Barbara? Forgotten Lives. 191 "Whom are we to see and identify ? Is it the old Raven they hold an inquest on ?" Barbara gives him a strangely sorrowful look, and moves away from his side without a word passing her Hps ; yet somehow he knows now it is not Primrose Behenna he is going to see. Lady Theresa has stood trembling and uncertain, with tear -laden eyes following her husband. "Can you bear this sight ?'' Walter says to her. " If so, will you accept my aid?" She takes his offered arm, and so Oliver is left to escort the grey and stony Deborah ; she is as hard and silent as an Egyptian sarcophagus. Blanche walks with her father. All these fall back a little when they reach the door, which that long slender hand had opened and swung to and fro on the night before Primrose died ; the others had al- ready descended the staircase. It is dark and narrow, and at the foot a small door admits them to a large light room — so light that for a moment all eyes are dazzled; then they see a crowd of men — coroner and jury, and beyond these, taller than aU, Sir Cuthbert standing by another doorway, stern and pale. The crowd parts right and left to make a path for the last comers, tlien 192 Forgotten Lives, all see lying across tlie door the pale, still, dead figure of a woman. Her face, like snow, is scarcely whiter than her hair, which covers her like a mantle, hiding her attenuated arms and one thin white hand, which is pressed against her heart. " My Grod ! who is it ?" Mr. Bosperis whispers hurriedly. "It is my mother 1" Barbara answers, and breaking from him she kneels down by the side of the pale dead, and her tears fall on the cold white face. " Gentlemen," Sir Cuthbert says in a voice a little uncertain and shaken, " the lady you see here lying dead is my daughter — my only child. Deborah, you were her nurse ; go forward first and see if you can recognise her face ?" Deborah, the last in that silent proces- sion, comes forward at his word, still grey and cold ; but when that sad sight meets her gaze, the stony mask upon her face gives way, every muscle quivers, and she bursts into loud bitter weeping. Then, lifting her wrung hands in the air, she passes Ernest Bosperis, and cries out upon hioi harshly — " This is your work — you killed her ! And Forgotten Lives. 193 I say again, as I did last night, I have seen you sorrow more for a dog than for her." He had thought then she spoke of Eose ; he had not dreamed to see such a si^rht as this. He gave her a wild haggard look, but held his lips rigid as death. " This is the lady I nursed from childhood to a woman," said Deborah, her hard voice sounding harshly and broken. " When in a reckless way she made a miserable marriage I clung to her still, and when bitterness came between her husband and her, I upheld her in her wrath and pride. When he put her in a madhouse it was I who searched for her, I who, when she escaped, aided her to hide in her old home, where she lived a terrible life of solitude and sorrow. Oh ! I always loved her, and did many a mad errand for her to soothe her broken heart, and her shattered brain. This is my nursling, my darling, Barbara Tregethas." She broke down utterly, this poor, stony, hard woman, and sinking to the floor she took the dead woman's head upon her knees, and smoothed back the long white hair which floated over her face. "Mr. Lethbridge," Sir Cuthbert said, "many years ago a lady, forlorn, poor, a VOL. III. 13 194 Forgotten Lives. little shaken in mind, having with her a child of very tender age, came to the house of a widow — also poor — and craved a shelter. She came, because the husband of this poor widow had some two years previously, treated her for her sad malady, and been kind to her when others were rough and cruel. She remembered this, and stayed with her friend a year. At the end of this period she dis- appeared suddenly, mysteriously, leaving her child in the hands of Mrs. Lethbridge. Have you any recollection of this lady ?" "Not sufficient to identify her now, changed as she is," Walter answered gravely, as he looked down with pity on the cold white face. " But when my aunt — who was to me as a mother — lay on her deathbed, she confessed to me that this poor lady was the mother of the young girl, who until then I had always called my dear cousin Barbara." Barbara flushed as he spoke her name, and rising from her sad place by her mother's side, she came to him and laid her hand on his arm. " Your cousin still, Walter," she said, quietly. " We will never give up the old name." The strong patient heart which had loved her so long, thrilled with hope as Forgotten Lives, 195 she said this, and his eyes rested on her face with tender pride. But he only said simply, " Thank you, Barbara," and turned to Sir Cuthbert again. " By what name w^as that lady known at your aunt's house ?" he asked. " By the name of Linton." " And did Dr. Lethbridge know her by that name during his attendance on her ?" "No; she was called Mrs. Ernest then." '' Thank you, Mr. Lethbridge ; I have no other questions to ask. Mr. Bosperis, I call on you to identify my unhappy daughter. Do you know her again ? Is that the face which you first saw at Pera twenty-one years ago t Who shall say what Ernest Bosperis felt as the cords of bygone years drew him to the dead woman's side, and he looked down upon the pale passion-worn face, which his memory now recalled painfully in the first flush of its beauty and its love ? '' I recognise this lady," he said, " as my wife, Barbara Tregethas, whom I married at Pera under the name of Ernest." His strange unexpected words caused a thrill of amazement — a stir, a murmur, instantly checked — and aU eyes turned on him in 18—2 196 Forgotten Lives, wonder, reading liim anew in the light of this revelation. All but Lady Theresa's; she knew by the letter he had sent her through Deborah, that this late acknowledg- ment it was his fixed resolve to make, and she was glad it was done. A sad smile passed over her lips, and she held out her small white hand to him, and clasped his before he spoke again. He knew what this kindly caress meant — she wished him to justify himself somewhat to all these eager judges listening in amaze. " Sir Cuthbert," Mr. Bosperis said; ''do you give me leave to speak ?" "- 1 have no right to bid you be silent," he answered. " You will speak gently of the dead ?" Barbara interposed, touching his arm a moment. He gave her one grieved look. At this instant his heart was filled with a deeper remorse than she could dream of for his sins against the wife of his youth. It was greater pain to him to speak than any human judge of thought could fathom. It was to justify Lady Theresa, not himself, that he uttered the few words of explanation for which the crowd waited so eagerly. Forgotten Lives. 197 "I believed my wife dead when I married Lady Theresa de Beauvoir. As truly as I look down now upon her dead face, and know it to be hers, so truly did I look down years ago upon the dead face of another woman and believed it to be hers. In this belief I married, in this belief I Hved many years. Kever was there a shadow of blame restinor on Lady Theresa's life, never the shadow of any desire in my heart to do her a wrong. I am in her hands now. She is free to take me or to reject me as her husband. And though if she refuses to be my wife, she makes me a poor man — poor in losing my lands, poorer still in losing happiness — poorest of all in losing her — yet I confess here publicly, that it would be best and wisest for her if she this day loosed my hands, and let me go from her for ever." She was holding him with both her clinging arms — she was sobbing on his breast — there was no thought in her true loving heart of forsaking him theDceforth while he, and she should live. *' I do not deserve your love, Theresa," was all he said, in a quiet, sad voice ; but his eyes had a strange joy in them, which Barbara saw with a pang of jealousy in her 198 Forgotten Lives. heart for her dead mother ; yet she rose up, took Lady Theresa's hand and kissed it gently, then knelt again in her old place. There is a keen sharp ache running through all her nerves — the ache of a bitter and dreadful thought which she cannot speak. What will Eose say when she awakes to sense again ? Was it indeed this poor, pale, demented hand which struck her ? Barbara looks up, with a heavy shadow in her great grey eyes, and meets the grave frank gaze of Walter Lethbridge steadily fixed on her, and something in that wistful, watchful look brings a blush of self-reproach to her pale cheek. Through all her life he has watched, and worked, and cared for her alone. She knows it now ; she knows that all the happiness she has ever had she owes to him ; and if there be left for her any joy on earth, she must find it by his side. It can never come to her through these new- found relations, who would have allowed her forgotten life to waste in ignorance, and misery, and pain, till death in mercy found her a pauper's grave. For one single second, for the first time in all her life, her sad eyes rest on Walter's, and that second brings him to her, and his outstretched hands meet Forgotten Lives. 199 hers close by the cold marble face of her mother. Both start as they mark this, and both feel instinctively that they have given each other a solemn pledge in the presence of this silent, awful witness. There is passion and joy in the clasp of Walter's hand — there is peace and reliance in Barbara's ; a great weight is lifted from her heart, but she is passing through a hard struggle — she cannot feel joy yet awhile. The ache of a foolish love lasts lonsr after the love is c^one. Moreover, the weariness of a mighty sor- row for this poor dead mother, is on her heart, and the world at this moment is to her a stony desert, where the weak fall and the strong cruelly trample them down, as they go on their relentless way. Deborah's voice awakes her as from a dream. ''TVe can lift her on her bed now," she says, "since the jury have seen how we found her. You see, we could not open this door ; she was lying across it. She fell here in her last weakness, perhaps as she was seeking help, or food. It was as desperate and hard a deed for her to do that, as for a man to break through a prison wall. It was only when she was dying 200 Forgotte7i Lives, she gained courage to come thus far and fall." *' Was she so neglected ?" Barbara asks shrinkinglj. " Neglected ! No, that she never was. Since Primrose fell ill, Lady Tregethas has been a true sister of mercy to her, but during these last bitter days that poor lady has stayed by her daughter's bedside, and there was no one with such watchful eyes as hers to note whether she had taken food or not. It was only yesterday they saw she had eaten nothing for many days, and last night Sir Cuthbert himself watched for her, and never heard her step, or saw her come to her lonely meal ; then he went to her door, and opening it softly, felt some strange obstruc- tion in the way, and lookin g in he saw her lying dead across the threshold. He closed the door again on seeing this, and went hurriedly for the doctor attending here on Miss Rose, and they came round by the little staircase, and entered by that door. I was with them. She does not look very different from what she looked in life. I saw her last alive by the Dead-man's weir in the park, when she gave me one of her woeful letters for Lady Theresa. I thought Forgotten Lives. 201 she was sleeping, till the doctor laid his hand upon her heart, and declared her dead. She died of weakness, agitation, and want of food, he said. I went down to Bosanken when I heard that — my anger was so hot in me — he killed her, by torment- ing her by his presence. ^hy did he come ? Can you tell me that ?" This sudden question, put so fiercely, blanched Barbara's face to snow ; she looked round wildly, and saw they were in the room alone ; all the crowd had gone. " Come away,'' Walter said earnestly, "they are all gone to hear the surgeon's evidence ; they will not return here. Let us leave this sad room." But Barbara shrank back, and covered her eyes with her hand. " I can bear no more," she said hurriedly. " Will they inquire of Eose now ? Will they ask her?" "No, no. I heard Mr. Penrose say, that Mademoiselle Yaldelapins's evidence so plainly proved how the sad event had occurred, that he would not press the matter farther now ; he would wait till Miss Carteret was in a condition to relate the truth." " And Mr. Bosperis, my father, has not been called upon to speak ?" 202 Forgotten Lives. " He lias not said a word." A deep sob burst from Barbara's lips, and breaking from Walter's detaining band she waved him and Deborah away. Left alone, she bent over the still pale form upon the bed, and kissed the marble brow. " Mother ! mother ! if you could but speak 1" she whispered ; " but you are silent for ever ; and as in life you bore all the pain, all the punishment, so in death the sin like- wise is laid to your charge. But T, your child, a woman also, I know — I feel the truth. You have died to save him ! Eest in peace, mother ! I can be silent too." '^m CHAPTER XII. HE business of the day is over. It is obvious the poor recluse bas died from natural causes; obvious also to all minds is the fact, that in an outburst of her woeful malady, her hand struck at Eose, so coroner and magistrate soothe the rich man's pain with courteous speech, and smooth away what difficulties they can lying in his path. Evidently there can be no prosecution against the dead, so it is no man's intent now to peer and pry into this mad deed ; hence the task of questioning the wounded girl is left to a more convenient season, and apparently there is no one over- anxious to take this duty on himself. " The whole thing is so plain," whispers fussy Mr. Penrose to the coroner ; " and I think, out of regard to the feelings of the family, now the girl is recovering, the less said the better. She'll clear it up by-and-by, doubtless." 204 Forgotten Lives. " Or hush it up," returns the other. " The poor creature being Sir Cuthbert's daughter and Mr. Bosperis's wife — an odd story that — will make all parties anxious for silence; and they are right enough. Of what use would be a fuss now she is dead ?'' " None whatever certainly, except to gratify impertinent curiosity. But what was Mr. Bosperis doing at the window? He could tell us something if he liked?" " No doubt he could ; but, like a gentle- man, he held his peace. Not a pleasant position for a man to be a witness against a wife he had ill-used. As to his being at the window, that's an affair of his own. Perhaps he wanted to see with his own eyes whether he was, or was not in the disagreeable pre- dicament of having one wife too many." " Ah ! you have hit the right nail there. An uncomfortable sort of life his must have been of late years, since he suspected the first Mrs. Bosperis was shut up here." " Awful ! and worse still for Lady Theresa, if she knew it. A good thing the poor child was drowned, is it not ? Are you going to stay to lunch ? I^ady Tregethas has sent a civil message, you know, asking us." " Yes, I think I shall stav.'' Forgotten Lives. 205 '• What a mad lot they are here at Caer- lerrick! Sir Cuthbert, it seems, wishes to make some sort of pubhc acknowledgment of his granddaughter. That is why we are asked to stay." '' Ah I that is the granddaughter, is it ? — the tall, handsome, quiet girl in black. Well, if Bosperis's marriage is all right, she'll be the richest heiress in the county, wont she?" " Yes, unless he remarries Lady Theresa, and has a son, and even in that case all the Caerlerrick estates will be hers. Xothing can keep them from her. The deed Sir Cuthbert executed in favour of his wife's daughter is not worth a penny now his legal heir has turned up." "So Miss Carteret, poor girl, has got a double stab. Ha ! ha ! ha ! And that will be rather a downfall for De Beauvoir, who is tremendously hard up, and who w^as very sweet upon her when she was an heiress. Oh ! he'll cry off now, for certain. He can't afford to marry without money. A man does not seLT himself for nothing now- a-days." '' Lunch is served, gentlemen." And a very singular and silent lunch that was, presided over only by Lady Tregethas, 206 Forgotten Lives. pale and calm, who courteously applied herself with scant speech to satisfy the wants of her guests. They were irrepressibly hungry ; they enjoyed their viands, the novelty of their position, and the excitement of the burning curiosity they repressed. They felt themselves to be spectators of a drama acting for their entertainment, spec- tators and yet actors also, and it behoved them to play their parts well. Lady Tre- gethas quitted them as quickly as she could. " You will excuse me, I am sure," she said on rising. " This is the first time I have left the bedside of my daughter. I am anxious to return to her." " I sincerely trust she is out of danger," said Mr. Penrose. Lady Tregethas bowed her head in thanks. There swelled up in her heart bitter thoughts of the heavy price she had paid for her grand marriage ; and a vision of her humble, sunny home in Prance swam before her eyes, con- trasting with this cruel castle, this dull, inhospitable hospitality, this bed of pain on which Eose lay ; and in spite of all her courage tears dropped down silently. The men sprang to the door and opened it for Forgotten Lives. 207 her to pass out, and not a word more was uttered. '' I think Sir Cuthbert might have spared her the pain of coming here/' observed the coroner, helping himself to wine. " He is not a man to spare a woman any- thing. And it was very civil and nice of her to come. She is a splendid woman." "Yes, she has quite a remarkable face, and you are mistaken if you think Sir Cuth- bert has ever played the tyrant to her. She presided here to-day quite of her own free will, I am certain. After all, the poor creature lying dead is Sir Cuthbert's only child ; he must feel her loss acutely. And for sixteen years he has had her before his eyes in a ghastly shape of pain and loneliness — neither dead nor living. He can hardly be fit to play the host to-day." " Xo one expected it," returned Mr. Penrose ; '' and I sa}^ again, it was very kind and nice of Lady Tregethas to come." " Oh, Sir Cuthbert is one of the old school, strictly ceremonious. He would have sat here himself grim as a hatchment, if she had not done it. After all, she is the only one who could ; she is no real relation, you know, to that " 208 Forgotten Lives. "Gentlemen, if you have finished luncheon, Sir Cuthbert will be glad to see you in the library." The curtain is drawn up again, and another act — the last — is to be played before a curious audience. Holding Barbara by the hand, Sir Cuthbert presents her ceremoniously as his grand- daughter and heiress, and in a few brief words goes into the evidence of her birth. The Venetian cabinet which had been her mother s stood on the table before him, and the contents once so sacred are looked at now by many strange eyes. " T gave this cabinet to my first wife," Sir Cuthbert says, and his eyes for an instant rest on the veiled picture on the wall. " It remained in her possession till her death, when it passed to my daughter ; Mr. Leth- bridge will tell you how it became my grand- daughter's." Link by link Barbara's life is spread out before them in Walter's clear voice, and if in telling it, if in proving her identity as the child of the unhappy Mrs. Ernest Bosperis, some portions of the chain prove also his own generous love, it is not through his words they see it, but by his deeds. Barbara Forgotten Lives. 209 sees and understands much more than the au- dience can read, and a feeling of profound hu- miliation seizes on her as she perceivesthat her carelessness, her ease, her many enjoyments have been won by this man's toil, and — what she values above all — her mental training,her power at last to recover the cruel waste of her asylum years, have been bought for her by his labour. She remembers that she sought refinement and cultivation that she might win Oliver de Beauvoir, but now that she has gained a mind and a soul she finds these deliberately choose the worthier man, and it was her unformed ignorant heart which longed for the love of the idler. Her great grey eyes at this moment touch Oliver's face and pass on as though they had looked on ice, and in every nerve of that sensitive frame of his he feels that look, and knows that he has stood in her mind an instant weighed with Walter Lethbridge, and his scale is gone down for ever. He has lost the great and noble gift she once gave him — her love — and, what he thinks of more, in losing this he has lost the greatest heiress in the West. But all his instincts are alive in self- defence, and except for one dark shadow VOL. III. 14 210 Forgotten Lives. passing swiftly over his handsome face no one sees his pain. He knows he deserves his fate, and he will never utter one word against her, or let human tongue in his hearing call her fickle. To his heart's core, though that heart is light with vanity and cruel in its inconstant loves, Oliver de Beau voir is still a gentleman. " Mr. Bosperis," Sir Cuthbert says, " do you acknowledge your daughter now, or do you wish for further proof?" Mr. Bosperis has been seated with his back to the light, his head bent forward, resting on his hands, and as he raises it now all behold his face, haggard and white as a man's who has been dead a day. Yet his grace of manner, his careless, easy mellow voice are still at his command. " I acknowledge her gladly, and T thank her for much kindness shown to me." His eyes rested a moment on her face, and brought the blood to it like a flame. " If she can accept me as her father, and forgive all the past, I am the one who should feel grateful and obliged. Will you acknowledge me, Barbara ?" For the first time throughout this dreadful day that mellow voice breaks a little ; there Forgotten Lives. 211 is an indescribable accent of bitterness, of pathos in it, and his hand, which he has half stretched out, quivers and falls. Barbara is silent, and stands like a white statue with eyes full of pain. " You see, gentlemen," and his old ease is in his voice again, " it is my daughter who refuses to acknowledge me, not I her. She has suffered much. I cannot wonder she does not forgive me. Yet her sufferings are not all my fault. Eemember that, until I saw her, until I saw that cabinet in her possession, and read the letters I had written to her mother, I thought her dead." It is all he says in self-defence, and he bends his head forward again, as if he meant to speak no more. " I too believed my granddaughter dead," Sir Cuthbert says, " or I should long ago have taken steps to recover her. It was only on the day that Deborah brought me these letters" — and he laid his hand on them — " that my fixed belief gave way, and I recognised the possibility of Barbara Leth- bridge being my daughter's child. Gentle- men, I thank you that you have listened to me so long." 14-2 212 Forgotten Lives. It was a dismissal, and every stranger there rose liurriedly, and took but brief leave-takings, ere they went forth from mad old Caerlerrick, like trumpets to scatter their strange news to the four winds. CHAPTEE XIII. AEBAEA," Sir Cuthbert says, lapng his strong wrinkled hand upon her shoulder, " henceforth you belong to me. I am old and childless. All I have on earth is yours." Every fibre in Barbara's heart tightens as she hears these words, and a cold deadly shiver of fear passes over her. Is he speak- ing truth, does her life belong to him, must aU her dull grey days be spent here without a single ray of love to warm them ? Her whole soul rebels at the thought, her trem- blings of shrinking dread and pain amaze even herself, and she looks around with eyes full of fear, only to feel that at sight of one figure alone does there arise in her heart any tenderness, any voice of home and peace. She had not known till now the long, long strength of habit, of faithful trust and reliance, built on her experience of a love and truth which had never failed her. 214 Forgotten Lives. " No, no," she says, freeing herself from that hard aged touch. " Walter ! Walter !" and she holds out her hands to him blindly. As he comes forward at her call, with face very pale and firin, two men interpose betw^een him and her — Sir Cuthbert and Mr. Bosperis. " Mr. Lethbridge," the latter says, in that suave, bland way of his, " I feel assured my daughter wishes to express her gratitude to you for all past kindness. Let me speak it for her, if I can. I feel words to be poor enough — too poor to paint any of the feel- ings we all have towards you. It is only when we look at Barbara, and see what you have made her, that we understand all we owe to you, and how little we can thank you." It was gracefully said, and Walter could not refuse the hand held out to him, though the speaker still stood as a barrier between him and his daughter. " I need no thanks," he said ; " no, not even from Barbara herself" " Miss Bosperis wall make her whole life a thanksgiving by showing us you have taught her to fulfil her duty," interposes Lady Theresa, in her sweet clear voice Forgotten Lives, 215 " Mr. Letlibi-idge, you will make Bo- sanken your home during your stay in England." He waves her invitation aside — he answers only her first words. " Miss Bosperis belongs to her own family; if she stays with them, she will certainly fulfil the duties of her station. I make no claim on her. But Barbara Lethbridge I have loved from childhood. And in manhood, I have worked hard for her, and served as patiently as Jacob did for Eachel. Let her speak for herself. I will listen to no voice but hers." How glad, how proud Barbara felt that he was not afraid or ashamed to speak out before them all. But she is not allowed to answer him. " Your words seem to imply that some sort of eno^a^jfement existed once between my granddaughter and ^^ourself," interposes Sir Cuthbert, almost fiercely. "Am I to understand that such is the case ?" " No," answers Walter firmly. " It is not, and never was the case." " I am glad of it, because of course you perceive that circumstances now greatly alter her position." ? " ^Oj no," Barbara cries hurriedly, " there 216 Forgotten Lives. is nothing altered between you and me, Walter. You are my cousin, my friend, my brother still." "Quite right," Mr. Bosperis observes gravely, "but you have other ties now, Barbara, other duties — another name and home." "Not this one," the girl says quietly, firmly. " I will not stay here, where my mother suffered sixteen years of shame and pain." A heavy frown gathers on Sir Cuthbert's brow, his eyes grow dark with angry grief. " You were happy all that time," he says reproachfully. " Walter made me so," she answers quickly ; " and I was not happy all those years. I was in poverty, and ignorance, and pain till he rescued me. I made one of the many forgotten lives who grind in the prison-houses of Charity." Her old bitterness spoke there a moment, and died down in a blush of shame. " That is all over now, Barbara ;" and Sir Cuthbert's voice trembles, and the wrinkled hand is on her shoulder again. " You will be my comforter through my old age ; who has so strong a claim on you as I have ?" Forgotten Lives. 217 Barbara's heart quivers within her, she nearly gives way ; she turns aside her head, that she may not see that aged face looking into hers so wistfully ; and she meets like dagger points the eager, haggard eyes of Ernest Bosperis. He smiles, and that strange wild expression Hits away like an evil dream. " Who has so strong a claim ?" he repeats sadly. " Why, I have ! I am her father. Come, Barbara, I have not pleaded with you yet. Will you not listen to my voice ? I too am childless. Come back to my home, and brighten it again ; you are my own, my very own; my flesh and blood. 1 can claim you, if I will, under the law ; but no, I will not stretch out my little finger to enforce m}^ claim. I will trust to your heart alone. How can I part with you, Barbara, having had you so long with me ? And you k/iow I love you. God knows, hide it as I w^ould in bitterness, my love crept out in lip and e^^es, and heart and band. Come back to me, my child — the only child I shall ever have — come back ! You alone can take the sting from my soul." It was too much. Barbara fell on her knees and sobbed aloud. 218 Forgotten Lives. " leave me alone a little while, only a little while, to think in quiet," she cried, brokenly. '' I cannot answer you now." He had spoken to her in so low a voice, that except Sir Cuthbert none had heard him, and all wondered at her sudden agi- tation. " Leave her to me," Lady Theresa said, coming to her aid. " I can plead your cause the best," she whispered, in passing her husband. In quitting the room Walter lingered a moment ; he felt he had a right, and step- ping back he toadied Barbara's hand, and said somewhat mournfully — "Whatever you feel to be your duty, Barbara, that you must do. I have no cause to plead, no claim to urge. I have been lonely many years — I can be lonely still, if you will it so." He was gone, without catching the wild, wistful look in her grey eyes ; and it seemed to her that he forsook her, and left her to these new claimants almost coldly. " Barbara," Lady Theresa said soothingly, as she put her arms about the weeping girl, " let me show you the truth quietly ; let me put things before you as they really are, Forgotten Lives. 219 without illusion. You are the heiress of two ancient names ; you belong to two childless men — one stricken in years, the other stricken in grief; you are the link binding enmity into friendship ; you are the sole hope of all our pained hearts. Let me draw you a picture. You will be the bird, the life of your father's home ; you will soothe his bitterness ; you will calm his remorse. Barbara ! I see signs in him already, which show us that his last state will be worse than the first. But I shall not leave him, or forsake him. Will you do it? his child — his only child!" Barbara gazed at her with wild dilated eyes, her tears all dried up, her face grow- ing pale, her lips white. Lady Theresa went on in her eager flow, pouring out many words. *' I see in my picture that you are our chief comfort and stay ; your father and I turn to your face for consolation, your voice for hope. I see you going to and fro between Caerlerrick and Bosanken, like a message of peace. I see you winning this aged man from his gloom and bitterness. I see you bringing sunlight again to the sad life of Lady Tregethas — a sorrowful woman, 220 Forgotten Lives. Earbara ; a devoted woman, whose kind hand and heart have cared gently for your mother ; whose child even now is suffering." But here the strong shudder which shook Barbara's frame checked Lady Theresa's faltering voice ; yet she could not guess the burden in her young heart, the horror in her veins. "? Let me turn to brighter things," Lady Theresa continues eagerly. " I look forward into future years. I see you beloved and honoured, the mistress of a stately home. Barbara ! if you refuse all my pleadings, ray most cherished wishes will shrink into dust. My brother loves you still, you know it : one look from you will bring him to your feet. Only a moment ago he whispered to me : ' Theresa, I have made the greatest mistake of my life. I am but a half-hearted fellow, but all the heart I have I gave to her, and now I have to stand by and see a " Hush !" Barbara says softly. " I cannot hear this." " But why not, Barbara ? You used to like him ; your father would be glad — Sir Cuthbert would be glad. You would make us all so joyful ; you would rivet a double Forgotten Lives. 221 bond of union between us and Sir Cuthbert ; all old enmities would be cast down for ever. And how can I think you care for this strange, this obscure American, inferior as he is to Oliver ?" Barbara smiled a little, and it was a smile which killed Lady Theresa's hope ; she sighed, and changed her theme hurriedly. "If you leave us, Barbara," she said, and a little bitterness tinged her voice, " you plunge your father back into his black fits of gloom ; you render useless his self- sacrifice, his public humiliation and confes- sion of his sins against your mother ; you render worse than useless the step he has taken to get his first marriage declared legal; and painfullest of all to me, you cover me with shame in vain. Eemember, that this day I have heard myself declared no wife, by the lips of the man who has been my husband for fifteen years. And he did this for your sake ; he risked my loss and my hatred, and he disgraced himself and me for you. And yet he loves me dearly. Barbara, you are hard and ungrateful ! I have finished." Her caressing arms dropped down coldly, and Barbara stood alone with dry eyes, 222 Forgotten Lives, and veins full of strange sliiverings. How can she tell Lady Theresa what load is on her heart ? She can never tell it ; she stands thinking of her mother's cold white face, and feeling again the thrilling voice- less whisper, which tells her that she died willingly to screen another's guilt. If this dreadful thought be true, she will be no man's wife; she could not go to Walter with such a secret in her soul, such a stain in her very blood ; but she could and would stay with her father. If her mother could die to save him, she surely can live to soothe him, though life should be one long pain ; and this shadow of horror always between herself and him, and love and peace should grow to be a bitter dream. Girl-like, she had not thought of being Walter's wife, she had only felt that she belonged to him, that she would go with him, and live with his father and mother and be his sister; but they have all put the meaning of her choice to her now in plain words, and she knows she has to choose between father and hus- band, between a path shadowed by a dread- ful gloom and a path of sunshine and joy. " What answer shall I take to them ?" Lady Theresa's voice says coldly. Forgotten Lives, 223 " I cannot answer," Barbara cries, wring- ing her hands together. Then a sudden thought darts into her mind, leaping like a flame to her burning cheeks and eyes. " I ask one favour of you all ! Let me see Eose. Entreat Lady Tregethas to let me see her. They shall all have my answer then." Wondering at this strange request, Lady Theresa departs, and Barbara is left alone with thoughts rushing on her like an ava- lanche, and senses strained to their utmost tension. In another moment or two she is in a room filled with a wonderful breath of calmness, cool with fresh air, and fra- grant with flowers. A door was open be- tween this and an inner chamber, and here Lady Tregethas met her. The strange charm of power, sweetness, peace, which lay about her presence, was with her as of old, and breathed its tranquil spell into Barbara's troubled soul. Like a sister of merc}' or a sweet lady among the Friends, purity and peace and grace were around her, as the light in which she moved, and the hottest heart that beat coming into that atmo- sphere would grow calm. " Be very quiet with Eose," she said 224 Forgotten Lives. softly. " I am trusting you with lier life." With these few words Barbara passes within the door, which shuts as if a feather waved it close, and she is here alone with the weak girl, upon whose breath her own life hangs in dreadful doubt. Can this be Eose ? — pretty, bright, light- hearted, selfish Rose ? Her beauty is changed by suffering into an ethereal shadow of her old self, as if she were dead, and this was her spirit lying here without its clay. Her great glossy eyes light up with feeble joy on seeing Barbara, and her wan lips try to smile. The girl bends over her tran- quil and quiet as a flower, and taking the pale shrunken hand she kisses it, and keeps back her tears. " Barbara, I have been such a false friend to you. I think I deserve all this." A faint flush wanders into her white sunken cheeks, then flit away like the ghost of a roseleaf. "You have been a true friend to me, dearest : you have shown me my own heart." " He has come back to you, now I am ill and miserable ?" And the spirit of the roseleaf flits over her face again. Forgotten Lives. 225 Barbara smiles with a thousand comforts in her smile. " He is gone away from me for ever, and I from him. You have only done me good^ dear Eose. I never loved the man. I love my cousin Walter." Eose Carteret's lips part in silent wonder, and it is odd that a little chill disappoint- ment creeps through her veins. She had thought of magnanimously restoring her supposed lover to Barbara — and behold, Bar- bara does not want him ! Neither does she now, at least not quite so much as she did. " Then you will be married soon ?" " No ; and perhaps I shall never marry. Rose ! dear Eose, I want you to tell me something !" The shadows of her fear and anguish rise to Barbara's brow, in spite of all her tranquil courage, and Eose shrinks and trembles. " Oh, I cannot speak of that ! It frightens me I I have not said a word even to my mother." Barbara's heart bounds against her side ; her lips grow death- white. " Eose, you can give me more, than life if VOL. III. J 5 226 Forgotten Lives, you will only promise me you will 7iever ssLj a word." " Why ?" Eose says, and her too-bright eyfes grow wide with wonder. Barbara takes the girl's pale hand and holds it against her own hot cheek. "Because, my dear Eose, it would be such a great mercy to me. The poor lady who in her madness struck you is my mother." " She did not strike me," Eose answers quietly. For one single instant these words float away in Barbara's fainting ears like a voice far off at sea, and a sudden darkness falls upon her eyes ; then by a mighty effort she sees again her friend's pale face, and feels her warm fingers still within her own. " It is as I feared," her heart whispers, and a rush of pain like a torrent fills up soul and sense. '' Then was it the man who stabbed you, Eose?" The dire question is asked, and she thinks she has spoken it, but in truth only her lips have moved, and no voice has issued from them. " What did you say, Barbara ? I think I grow deaf in my weakness. How did it Forgotfen Lives, 227 happen? you ask. Hold my liand tiglitly, and I will try to tell you, and not be frightened. I was asleep and dreaming that I saw your ghost again. I had seen her tv.dce in my room, when I awoke in a sudden terror, and here she was close by my bedside; she seemed to be struggling with another figure — a man's figure. It was faint moonhght, I could not see his face. I started up — I sprang from my bed in a terror I can never tell, and in my blind agony I rushed against her, rushed against something gleaming in her hand. Then I felt myself wounded, and I fled without sense or sight till I fell some- where — I scarce know where — but there were lights, voices, my mother's, I think, and I can remember nothing more." Oh ! what a weight is gone from Barbara's sick heart, how lightly her blood runs on again, how bright and fair the world has grown only with a word or two, and all her young life leaps through her veins in new hope and joy ! " Oh, Eose, you have made me glad — gladder than any language can tell. I have felt so grieved, fearing my poor mother's hand had hurt you willingly." " I am sure she did not mean to hurt me," 15 — 2 228 Forgotten Lives. Eose says witli a little sigh, " nor the man either. I think he was straggling with her, to take her away from my room, fearing she would terrify me." " Why had this thought never struck her before ?" Barbara asks of herself. What an easy and probable solution it was of all her doubts and fears. Mr. Bosperis had watched around Caerlerrick, to verify with his own eyes the statement that his wife lived, and seeing her in Eose's room, having a dagger in her hand, he had sprung into the window fearing danger might ensue. But why then had he refused an explanation ? This too Barbara answers, by saying, that perhaps in the darkness he may have fancied that her mother struck at Eose ; he may not have seen she fell against the knife, and so he would not speak for pity. " I hope I have not hurt you, Eose, by talking," Barbara says, and her smile and her kiss are both full of joy. Eose has taken away her lover, but she has given her back her father and her mother, and the gift is as the setting open of prison-doors to Barbara, and the letting in of light upon darkness. *'How well and happy you look," Eose Forgotten Lives. 229 says a little enviously. " Come again soon, and tell me all tlie strange news. So the poor lady — the ghost — was your mother ! That is like a dream. And the old Raven is dead, they say — that's like the end of a fairy tale. And Fatima declares she'll never prowl in her sleep again — that's like the mora] to a comedy, rather doubtful. Oh, it's good to laugh once more, is it not, Bar- bara ?" And her lips part a little, and the pretty white teeth gleam, bringing back for an instant the bright Eose of other days. " I have been very quiet, very careful," Barbara says to Lady Tregethas. " I only made her smile once. And I wish I could thank you for all your goodness, all your kindness, but I have no words." There is no need of them. Lady Trege- thas knows the girl is grateful, not for her- self, but for gentle pity and mercy given to her mother, aad she stoops and kisses her with a kiss which Barbara feels is a seal of pardon, for that inadvertent stroke which has laid poor Eose on her bed of pain. CHAPTEE XIY. you will give your answer to me alone, Barbara ?" Mr. Bosperis says. His voice has all its old careless ring in it, but his eyes are strangely haggard, and he looks old since yesterday. Barbara is standing by the great Gothic window with a flood of sunlight falling on her face, brightening its joy, and putting a glory on her hair. She springs forward and throws her arms around him. " Oh, I have had such thoughts — such dreadful thoughts," she says, half sobbing. "1 have read them all, Barbara," he answers, and his arms do not touch lier with responsive caress. " But I have seen Eose. I know all the truth now." Her face is hidden on his shoulder; she never knew how he looked as she spoke. He is silent as a dead man. Forgotten Lives, 231 "x\re you not glad?" she says, half lift- ing her head in wonder. "I'm glad if you are, child. There is nothing left on earth to be sorry for after the worst comes." '' Don't grieve," Barbara says. " Don't call her death the worst that could happen to us. It is so joyful that Eose will get well, and can speak the truth." He lifts her head from his shoulder himself, he looks down into hor eyes, and a wild forlorn smile flits over his face. " Yes, truth is such a joyful thing. What has Eose said to you ?" Barbara tells him with glad smiles and eyes brimful of happy tears. Some faint pale shadow of her happiness shines upon his own haggard face, and he puts his arm around her with a sudden fervent pressure. " You will not leave me now, Barbara ?" "Oh, yes ; it is because I know you are kind and true, and clear of all blame, that I can leave you to be happy with Lady Theresa." She caresses his worn cheek with her hand, and her eyes are full of shy hope. The arm around her quivers like an aspen-leaf, but he conquers his voice with his strong will. 232 Forgotten Lives, " You want to go, child ? You wish to see my face no more ?" " father, do not say that !" " Well, I will not say it. It is only the old story : the young forsake us always. You love this Walter Lethbridge, Barbara ?" " I have loved him all my life. He has been friend, brother, guardian — everything to me." " Oh, yes ; I forgot how old his love is ; so much older than mine. You are right to go with him, Barbara." " But not unless you give me to him — not unless you consent; you have every right over me." The old forlorn smile flits back as he stoops and kisses her. " No, no ; I have told you always, I am a man without rights. Go with your own free will, Bar- bara, not mine." She looks so sad, so disappointed, that he smiles again — kindly this time — and lays his hand upon her head. " Think what you renounce, child : a great name, a great esiate, station, honour, society " " For none of which things I am fit,"" interposes Barbara sorrowfully. " I should Forgotten Lives. 233 make but a poor lady. There are shadows, and memories, and painful thoughts resting with me, which never rack a lady's brain. I have passed through that direst furnace of poverty which is misnamed Charity, and the marks of the burning will be with me all my life. I thought I could escape them ; I thouo^ht I could feel free and at ease amons^ the idle and the rich ; I thought I could meet them on equal terms, but I have had a sharp lesson which has taught me better." A sudden crimson rushed over her face, but her voice went on steadily, *' It has taught me that existence in the station to which you would raise me, would be a constant warfare, in which I should always be the loser. I cannot fight a battle on their own ground, with those born and bred on it. I have but invaded their territory for a time. Let me go back to the rank to which I belong; it is only there I see a home for myself. Lady Theresa's brother has shown me that love itself, to one lower in caste, can be turned into a sneer or an insult." Her voice broke, but it was through hurt pride, not passion, and her eyes looked mournfully and calmly into her father's face. He felt in every fibre the force and 234 Forgotten Lives. truth of her words, but it was bitter to him to know that neither her beauty, her good- ness, nor her genius had been sufficient to win from the man of caste and of prejudice the respect that was her due. " There are worthier men than Oliver de Beauvoir," he said. '' Yes, but not one with courage enough to break through a single prejudice of his order." "But you are of us, Barbara," he per- sisted, almost angrily. "Not in heart, not in memory, not in feeling ; in all these things I am a Leth- bridge. And to my mind — being blinded, I suppose, by my low memories of early 3'ears — Lethbridge is a better, honester name than Bosperis. I shall never blush, never be ashamed of one as I am of the other. If I were indeed a Lethbridge, there would be no slur upon my birth, no history of shame and anguish to hide, no hatred and madness to weep for. Oliver de Beauvoir would not love me because I was a Lethbridge; I wonder, with sad amaze, how" Walter Leth- bridge can still love me, finding me a Bos- peris. It is his constancy which clears my vision, and I see myself the same Barbara Forgotten Lives. 235 whom he loved as the poor friendless Charity girl. '' So you think he does you an honour in taking you, in spite of the sins of your father ?*' Mr. Eosperis says, with a bitter inflection in his voice. " I think he does," Barbara answers firmly. '' So you stand in the same risk of being despised by both your lovers — by one be- cause you were a Lethbridge, by the other because you are my daughter. Would it not be wise to leave both these men ?" Barbara lays her hand timidly on his arm . " Sarcasm frightens me," she said ; " it re- minds me so bitterly of the time when my very garb caused a sneer and a gibe — a time when I had no friend but Walter." " I see you are bent on this low marriage," he returned, shaking her hand away. '' Well, 3^ou are of age ; the law gives you liberty to forsake kith and kin and heritage, if you are so mad. I say nothing of myself; I am without rights. At this present moment I have a wife who is no wife, and a daughter who denies that she is my child." Again Barbara felt the sore of a grieved 236 Forgotten Lives, and wounded spirit, but slie remained firm in her resolve. She had tried this life of wealth, honour, birth, and found it wanting; she foresaw the constant fret, and jar that would arise between herself, and her rela- tions, and she shrank from it, for their sakes as for her own. " I should get at last to be the skeleton in their closet," she said to herself. " Their feelings and mine would be two counter- currents always clashing. If I gave way, I should die ; if I resisted, I should grow hateful to them." " Last night you saved my life," con- tinued Mr. Bosperis mournfully ; " to-day you forsake me." " Last night you were so unhappy, to-day there is so much joy restored to you." " Where is the joy?" And that strange smile, which had something terrible in its weariness, came back to his face. "It is cruel to ask me, since I have to speak of my mother," Barbara says ; " but to-day 3^ou find yourself freed from the wife you hated, and able to take the wife you love. Last night I knew nothing of my mother ; I had not guessed the truth." " If you had known it you would not have Forgotten Lives. 237 taken the pistol from my hand," he said, gloomily. "Yes I would, for you had assured me you were innocent." *' To-day you had worse thoughts of me than tlie night brought you." Barbara glances at his worn, haggard looks, and her trembling hands touch him pitifully. "It all came of looking upon her face," she says, laying her hand again upon his shoulder ; "it spoke to me in such dreadful words. It seemed to say : ' He came here meaning to kill me, and struck at Eose by mistake, and I have chosen to die in quiet, that I might bear the blame and save him."^ " Can dead faces speak the truth better than living ones ?" he asks, and his voice thrills through her ear strangely. " You have heard what Eose said ?" " Yes," Barbara answers. " Thank Grod that she could tell me." He laughs a little, and smooths her hair with caressing hand. "But suppose the. dead woman spoke the truth, what then?" "Oh, do not jest, it is so horrible." 238 Forgotten Lives. " Well, but I ask what then ? I want to know ; I am curious." " But you do know. You know in that case I should never marry; in that case I would not touch Walter's hand for worlds. I should cling to you, yet hating you ; for- giving you, yet holding you in horror. Oh, what a dreadful picture you make me draw." She feels his heart bound against her own as she leans close to him, and a silence that can be felt drops down upon them for a breathless moment. "So you would cling to me, you would" not leave me ? You almost bribe me to tell a lie, Barbara. You are very happy in know- ing the truth, in knowing it was an accident, and the dagger was in her hand." " I am very happy, very thankful. I want you to be happy likewise." He puts her away from him for a little space ; some dreadful struggle he has had in his heart is over, but his forehead is wet and his face death-white — the old forlorn smile is on his lips. " I will try to be happy. I have bought Theresa, but I have lost you. Go in peace to your husband, child. I give you to him." CHAPTEE XV. E. BEANWELL, the curate, is coming to dinner/' says Mrs. Daniel. '' My goodness 1" cries Miss Minsliell. " "Will you let me cook it — every bit of it, Mrs. Daniel?" " Well, yes, all except the junket and the mackerel pie ; you may do all the rest." Miss Minshell rushes upstairs and returns shortly in a holland pinafore, much like the garment of her charity days ; her sleeves tucked up, showing her plump white arms, and her. skilful hands rosy with fresh cold water. " Now I shall go in the kitchen this minute, and you wont see me again till four o'clock." Mrs. Daniel laughs to herself as Miss Minshell departs. ** Well, I'll back her to win in spite of her ugliness. Even the meekest of curates likes his dinner." 240 Forgotten Lives, It is live o'clock when Miss Min shell makes her reappearance in the drawing- room in her only silk dress, a grey one ; her face so slightly scorched that it is but be- coming, and her hair and eyes really shining. A letter and a telegram are lying on the table. " Here is a disappointment for yon," Mrs. Daniel says ; " Mr. Branwell can't come. He has been summoned again to Caerlerrick." Miss Minshell's face grows blank and dismal, her eyes cloud over angrily. " A rich girl like Eose Carteret going in for a curate ! It's a shame !" " Nonsense ! The poor girl has been nearly dead. He only reads to her." Miss Minshell shrugs her shoulders in contemptuous doubt. " I wish I had never touched the dinner, spoiling my hands for nothing." " Oh, the dinner wont be wasted. I have had a telegram from my uncle Crank, and he will be here in time to eat it.''^ " Mr. Crank !" exclaims Emily, and two bright lights leap into her eyes joyfully. " Well, I am glad, after all, I have cooked the dinner to-day." *' The stroke is not wasted/' observed Forgotten Lives. 241 Mrs. Daniel, "as the boy said, wlien lie threw a stone at a dog and liit his step- mother." " Oh, you are so sarcastic ! I did not mean that, of course. Mr. Crank is old." " But he is enormously rich, and he has been a widower a whole year now." The sound of wheels stops the conver- sation, and Mr. Crank arrives, very red and fussy. He shakes hands with his protegee benignly, but his eyes travel over her fat face apparently without seeing her, his mind being evidently hard at work upon some- thing more in the great Crank line. " Are you come on business, uncle ?" Mrs. Daniel says a little drily. " Well, yes, I am ; but I am so exhausted by my journey that I think I'll leave it till after dinner." " Luckily, I've got a very nice dinner for you." ' " That's good news ; but not all Cornish dishes, I hope ?" And an expression of dismay steals into Mr. Crank's hard coun- tenance. Miss Minshell laughs a little. " Oh dear no, Mr. Crank ! And T hope you'll like the dinner, because I cooked it." VOL. III. 16 242 Forgotten Lives. "You! Oh, indeed!" A deeper look of dismay darkens Mr. Crank's iron visage. " I'll go and wash my hands," he says gruffly. "And — and I've got a couple of grouse in that bag. Hadn't you better add one of them to the dinner?" Mrs. Daniel deprecates the idea, and Miss Minshell shoots a triumphant glance at Mr. Crank as his expansive back passes out at the door. Miss Minshell was justified in her pro- spective triumph. The dinner was a great success. Mr. Crank wondered at it more and more as he tasted dish after dish, and his intense silence only spoke more forcibly his entire satisfaction. " Now, do you mean to say you really cooked all this ?" he says to Miss Minshell at last. " Yes, indeed I did." '' Upon my word you are a clever girl. I never tasted a better dinner on an alderman's table ; no, nor even at one of our grand Charity affairs. Let me give you a glass of wine. Here, come and sit by me, my dear, and I'll help you to your dessert. It is not the first time you have sat by me, you know. Forgotten Lives, 243 You used to have this seat sometimes at St.^ Cecilia's, when you were a happy little child there. Eh ?" " And Mr. Crank pats Miss Minshell's head, and his hard old eyes try to put on a fatherly and benevolent ex- pression, but fail, and feeling this, he winks instead, and what they realJy see is, that the girl is not bad-looking after all. She has a plump neck and round white arms, and her teeth are really good. " "Well, what's the news down here ?" he says, with the corner of his eye still on Miss Minshell. " That girl, Barbara Lethbridge, has turned out to be a grand heiress — quite a person of consequence, is she not ?" " She is and she is not," returns Mrs. Daniel ; " for she is going to marry quite an obscure man, and she goes out to America wdth him. And I hear that she has agreed with Lady Theresa to give up all claim to the Bosperis estates." " Bosperis ? Ah, that's her father, the interesting gentleman who had a first wife living when he married the second one." " Yes, but he did it ignorantly. He and Lady Theresa have been married again very privately, and they are gone to Italy.''* *' The best thing they can do, I should 16—2 244 Forgolten Lives. say," observed Mr. Crank, in a liiglily moral tone. " So the daughter misses the estates and Lady Theresa gets them ?" " Yes, but she'll have Caerlerrick one day, and that is a very fine property. Miss Minsheirs friend, Miss Carteret, gets a dis- appointment there." Mr. Crank turns to Miss Minshell with a redoubled interest. " Your friend ? Ah, yes, I remember her ; a pretty little creature, wasn't she ?" " Tolerably so," Miss Minshell says, " but very conceited. However, she has had a lesson now, and perhaps she is improved." *' Thanks to Mr. Bran well, who takes great pains to read to her," observes Mrs. Daniel, with a little malice. Miss Minshell never moves a muscle of her face, she peels her peach serenely. " Oh ! a handsome young curate, I sup- pose," remarks Mr. Crank. " What do you say to him, my dear?" " Nothing," returns Miss Minshell, look- ing up with calm innocence. " I don't care for curates myself" " Ha ! ha ! ha 1" laughs Mr. Crank, "you like something more substantial than a curacy." Forgotten Lives, 245 " Hush :" Mrs. Daniel says, " here is Mr. Bran well !" And there enters a beautiful creature ^-ith wavy raven hair, bro^vn sunny cheeks, eyes clear and dark, and eyelashes an inch long. He sits down gracefully and caresses his dog with a long white hand. " So sorry, Mrs. Daniel, I could not dine with you, but poor Lady Tregethas so often requires my aid now." " Will YOU dine now, Mr. Branwell r" "Thanks, no. I lunched late at the Castle." " How is Eose ?" asks Emily. " Miss Carteret is much better ; she sits up every day with her charming friend, Mademoiselle Valdelapins." " And with Mr. De Beauvoir, I sup- pose?" Emily returns, implying a good deal. A deeper tint mounts to the ridi brown cheek — the curate slaps his dog. " Gro away, sir ! You are troublesome." " Some doo^s always are," savs Emilv, demurely. " De Beauvoir I" observes Mr. Crank. "What De Beauvoir?" " Lord De Beauvoir's brother," answers Mrs. Daniel. 246 Forgotten Lives. *' Oh !" Mr. Crank rejoins, and his hard lips expand as though some exquisite jest were acting like oil on his machinery. It is such fun to some men when another is poor and ruined. *' He is engaged to Miss Carteret," says Emily. And her own remark seems to give her so much happiness that she giggles. "Engaged to Miss Carteret?" and Mr. Crank wakes up to a surprising interest. " How much money has she ?" The curate pulls his dog's ears — ^liis own are burning. " She has a very good fortune," replies Miss Minshell. " What do you call a good fortune ?" Mr. Crank asks. " I believe Miss Carteret has ten thousand pounds," says Mr. Branwell, rising to go, but Mr. Crank's next words make him sit down again. '' Is that all ? Then it will never be a match. That young De Beauvoir can't marry ten thousand pounds. It would only be a sop to him. I know him pretty well. Jews, bills, discount, and that sort of thing ; it will never be a match, I tell you ! The young fellow is too hard up." Apparently another man's ruin and misery Forgotten Lives. 247 can impai-t a smile even to tlie lips of a superior being, for tlie handsome curate's white teeth flash out suddenly before the vexed eyes of Miss Minshell, and lie pats his dog, saying, " Eeally, I'm sorry to hear that." " You are so fond of Mr. De Beauvoir," says Emily. "Xo; I can't say that." ''But he is very gentlemanly and en- tertaining, I believe," observes Miss Min- shell. " Yes ? I really don't know. He talks French mostly to Mademoiselle Yaldelapins, and my French is rather dilapidated, I fear. I often feel myself rather a humbug, for I laugh when they laugh without in the least knowing why. Now, Mrs. Daniel, I really must go." "No, no, just a minute," Mr. Crank says eagerly. " You said Yaldelapins. Is that Yaldelapins the great iron-foundr}^ people in the north of France ?" " The very same." " Oh 1 then that girl will have something like a fortune !" " Some millions of francs, I believe. Too big a sum to venture on," laughs Mr. Branwell, languidly. And giving his slender 248 Forgotten Lives. white hand to the ladies, as if it were something too good and beautiful for them to touch, he departs, looking happier than when he came in. Oliver'^ dismal financial state has lightened his heart considerably. Mr. Crank remains in silent thought. " I suppose we can send a telegram up to town from this little post-office ?" he says. Mrs. Daniel nods assent, and then asks what his urgent business is with her. " Well, you see I'm chairman now for a good many charities, and among others for the One-legged Cripples Asylum. And I just want to know if you'll mind being put up as a paralytic cripple with one leg ?" " Me !" exclaims Mrs. Daniel. " Yes. One very useful woman is just dead, and we don't know what to do for a substitute. We used to bring her forward at every election and create immense sym- pathy for her. She had lost an arm and a leg, and was blind of one eye.'' " Poor creature 1" ejaculates Mr. Crank's niece by marriage. That gentleman laughs. " Not at all," he says. " She had a very snug little business, and as many limbs and eyes as you and I. Her brother was a Forgotten Lives. 249 Charity-Election agent : it was he wlio blinded and crippled lier. She was quite an annuity to him, and I beUeve he did pretty fair by her. Of course no one knew the relationship between tbem. He used to get her case up splendidl}^ before the public. No one had more votes than she had, but then she always missed getting in somehow, and the votes were passed on — at a good price, don't you see ?" Mr. Crank looks at his glass of wine with the eye of a connoisseur and swallows it. '^ Well, and the woman is dead, and he is hard up now for a case. And I thought of you. Cornw^all is along way off. No one w411 bother to make inquiries. I think he'll give you a good share of the profits, but you must not be too greedy. Eemember, there's great expense — cards, letters, postage, adverlise- ments — positively an awful outlay, and ail that must come out of his pocket. But he'll bring the case out w^ll, and of course 3'ou w^ont have your own name." " I am not a one-legged cripple," inter- poses Mrs. Daniel, " nor yet a swindler or an impostor. And I am w^ell off. I don't want to get into an asylum." *' Oh, if you look on it in that light. 250 Forgot! en Lives. there's an end to our business. But perhaps you can recommend some likely person down in the village, who would do for a paralysed cripple." Mrs. Daniel deigned no reply to this sug- gestion. " You'll all get shown up one of these days," she said reflectively. Mr. Crank looks at his wnne again with an uneasy hard old eye. " Eh 1 What ? You are thinking of the fuss made lately about Charity elections. Oh ! it takes a long time to move the British public to a change. If Parliament does not interfere we are safe enough. And after all, in spite of an affair here and there, our charities are magnificent institutions." The uneasy look in his hard eye changes to a benevolent twinkle as the good wine slips down his throat. ''So there's no doing any business with you, Sabrina ? You wont aid in the good cause ?" " No," Mrs. Daniel says shortly. Mr. Crank knows when he is answered ; he changes the conversation instantly. " Y^ou seem to have got a treasure in the companion I've sent you. What a cook she is ! — a downright genius, isn't she ?" Forgotten Lives. 251 Mrs. Daniel glances at Miss Minsliell, who is on the lawn watering flowers. ''' She is a firstrate cook and an economical one. It is a pity that young curate does not like her ; she would make a splendid wife for a poor man." " Why not for a rich one ?" thinks Mr. Crank. "And she is quiet in her dress, too," he saj^s, with his head very much on one side. " Very quiet ; she is always either a grey cat or a black one." " Oh, I see : you mean she never wears colours — does nut spend much money on milliners, I should say." " She spends none. She makes her things herself. She has the nimblest fingers I ever saw. Mr. Crank has almost made up his mind, but thinks it wise to change the sub- ject. " This is a delicious cake," he says. " Ts it ? I don't care for cakes. Miss Minshell made it — mostly for herself, I think." " For me in this instance," laughs Mr. Crank. " Did you not say something about send- 252 Forgotten Lives. ing a telegram ?" asks his niece. " The office will be closed soon/' " Yes," responds Mr. Crank slowly, " but I've been thinking it over. To-morrow morning will do; my place in the City is shut now. That young fellow De Beauvoir is making a long stay at Caerlerrick, I sup- pose r " I expect he'll stay there as long as they let him," responds Mrs. Daniel, carelessly. Mr. Crank walks to the window, and ad- mires Miss Minshell. '* Now I consider St. Cecilia's one of the most splendid institutions in the country," he says, with a pride as great as if it were his own private property. " Think of its turning out such a cook as that girl is !" Miss Minshell overheard the remark and smiled. " That shows how much he and all the pottering old committee, know of wliat we girls were taught at that horrid old asylum," she says to herself. " I'll teach him better one day." He opens the window and strolls out into the garden, looking like a big bird as he hops after Miss Minshell from one clump of flowers to another. Forgotten Lives. 253 Mrs. Daniel draws her desk towards lier, and writes a few lines rapidly. *' My husband's nncle does not take me in quite so easily as he thinks," she says grimly. She goes out to the stable and sends a boy off on a pony — it is the widow's boy, whom Barbara's runaway horse had thrown. He rides to Caerlerrick, and Oliver, as he and Fatima are playing besique together, gets this note — '* Mr. Crank is here, of the firm of Crank, Screw, and Polish. Start to-night ; you'll be stopped to-morrow." "What's the matter?" asks Fatima, and her green eyes are full of the prettiest tender lights as she glances from her cards into Oliver's clouded face. " The matter is, Blanche" — he has got to Blanche during this last fortnight quite easil}' — *' I must be off this very night, I fear — sudden business." " Is it horrid money affairs r" she says. " It is exactly that, chere enfaiit. Horrid is the only word. Blanche, I am in a sad fix." " Go to France," she returns cheerfully, " and get out of it." Her green eyes and his fickle hazel ones meet ; a sudden flush creeps over his hand- 254 Forgotten Lives. some face, lie glances at Hose, lying on a conch near the window, like a lily sleeping in the sunset. " Do you think she'll care ?" And Blanche laughs musically. Then she hends forward and whispers, " Where are your eyes ? She is fathoms deep in love with that beautiful young priest. Madame is delighted, and the old Griffin, too — the horrible vieillard ! The only difficulty is to get rid of you.'' " How kind of them ;" and Oliver looks oddly at his companion, as if he half believed, half doubted her words. " Put it to the test," she says, answering his look. " Go to my father's, he has in- vited you, and act en gentilhomme — but that you would always do ; write and state the whole truth respecting your financial affiiirs, and offer to set her free. You'll see then." And Fatiraa nods at him with one of her best smiles. For answer Oliver goes over to the couch of his sleeping ^«?^a%, and looks down upon her fair rosebud face. Unconsciously to himself he is taking his farewell, denying it to his own heart, confessing with that wist- ful fickleness of his, which always regrets Forgotten Lives. 2b d a lost love, that she is very fair, and if she only had Fatiraa's fortune Eose opens her blue eyes and smiles. " I dreamt I was well enougrh to gro to church/' she says, " and I was so glad." "How droll I" Fatima cries, and laughs outright. Oliver feels intensely irritated. " I am going away to-night, Eose. I have only a moment or two to say good-by, or I shall miss the last train." He bends over her, looking into her blue eyes for the love he will never see, and Blanche goes quietly from the room, as if she were walking in her sleep again. "So that fellow De Beauvoir is off to France," Mr. Crank says, three days after this farewell ; " some one must have warned him. I believe it was the curate. Xever mind. I know where he is, and I have written him a cool letter of advice, and he had better take it, or it will be the worse for him." Mr. Crank smooths his hat savagely, and ramming it on his hard head, he goes into the garden in search of Miss Minshell, for whom his admiration is growing intense, as her genius for cooking displays itself in new surprises every day. 256 Forgotten Lives. On the evening after Mr. Crank's depar- ture Miss Minshell looks up from her work with a blush. " I shan't be witb you very long, dear Mrs. Daniel, for Mr. Crank has asked me to marry him, and I have said yes.'' Mrs. Daniel's countenance evinces no sur- prise. She does not even look up from her work. " Better to sit up all night than go to bed with a dragon," she says. " What !" cries Miss Minshell. .' " Only a little bit of Jeremy Taylor. I was reading aloud," returns Mrs. Daniel. "The dragon has lots of money. I wish you joy-" There is nothing more to be told of Miss Minshell, except that as Mrs. Crank she has never soiled her hands by cooking, and she is always the most richly -dressed woman in the City of London. She gives good dinners too, and in consequence, has so many mascu- line friends, that Mr. Crank presents often a snubbed and insignificant appearance at his own table. From Monsieur Yaldelapins's palace, near the black foundry, Oliver wrote a true Forgotten Lives, 257 account to Eose of his debts and difficulties, and offered to set her free. She accepted the proposal gladly. Pain and sickness had altered little Eose, and from the day she first awoke again to sense and hght, she felt a strange shrinking from Oliver de Beauvoir. " We are too much alike," she said to her mother ; "we should run down the broad road swiftly together." She married Mr. Bran well, and Lady Tre- gethas is a beautiful and dehghted grand- mother. Oliver took Mr. Crank's advice and the rich French heiress, but not till a secret agent had bought up his debts so cheaply — in consequence of a false report of his death without effects to administer to — that the Crank firm found their chief's coun- sel, though followed, brought them little benefit. It was the happiest match for Oliver he could have made. His wife held the purse and the power, but she held both in a velvet hand, whose touch never galled him. " I always meant to have you," she said one day, laughing, " from- the evening you VOL. III. 17 258 Forgotten Lives, worried me at Madame's. It is a splendid revenge to have you here so tame and so fond of me." It was true. Oliver de Beauvoir admires his wife, for nothing holds a fickle heart like a little wholesome fear, and the power of the purse. CHAPTEE XVI. X the deck of a great ship, going* westward, there stands the pale slim figure of a girl, on whose face there is set a strange seal of earnestness and calm, rarely seen on a brow so joung. She is looking eastwards towards the dim hori- zon, where a long dark line fades gradually, and sinks at last into the grey sea. "It is our last look at Old England for a year or two, Barbara," says a manly voice, and the girl looks up and shows her eyes glistening with unshed tears. " One's own country is very dear,'' she answers quietly ; "it gave my heart a sad wrench to see it vanish, like a mere vapour, like a dream." " I shall never forget, Barbara, that you have left it for me. I shrink when I reflect on all you have left — the stately home, the rank, the riches " " And the grim skeleton, and the sharp 17—2 260 Forgotten Lives. thorns, and the bitter herbs and rue mingled with it all," Barbara says, with a little wistful smile, bringing a shadow of her father's look upon her young innocence. " And have you no regrets, Barbara ? I am jealously anxious at times. I know I am only a great blundering fellow, fit for hard work, and apt to be awkward often." She clasped both her hands upon his arm, and her great grey eyes grew dark with untold tenderness. " Don't depreciate yourself to me, Walter. I cannot let you do that. Shall I tell you what you are ? You are the dearest, truest gentleman that ever gave a loyal heart to a foolish, ungrateful girl. Eegrets ! What regrets can I have ? You represent to me all a woman can have of happiness on earth — husband, home, guardian, friend, and love. And remember, you have always been these to me. Is there any time of my life when I can look back, and say, you were not my shield, my defender, my guardian, and my only friend ? Is it anything new to me to shelter myself here against your true breast ? There would be the newness, Walter, there the strangeness !" And she pointed towards the Forgotten Lives. 2G1 darkening East, where clouds covered the old home from her tearful sight. Leaning against his breast, she hid her face there ; and he, knowing her tears were not all sorrowful, uttered not a word, but strained her gently to the true heart that had loved her so long and well. * -S * Tie * " It is better as it is, Theresa ; if I lived, I should make a miserable old man — a sad spectacle for you to see — a wasted life, drivelling into an idiot." The speaker is Ernest Bosperis. His last few sands of life are running: down with appalling haste, hurrying to the great dead, dark sea of the eternal, unchangeable past. " Ernest, do not be bitter against your- self now. Do not break my heart I" His wife bends over him ; she wipes his brow and kisses it. He detains her hand in his, and looks wistfully into the pale lily face, once so beautiful, now so changed and worn. " The boy will comfort you," he says. " You will take care of him ; you will make him a good man." " I will try to, God helping me." She 262 Forgotten Lives. turns away her face tliat he may not see her tears. " You must take courage, Theresa ; you must bear up for our child's sake. Death comes to all. I have no right to complain, nor have you. We have been happy to- gether here, Theresa !" "For answer she kisses him again, and keeps her face pressed upon his pillow. The old forlorn smile touches his lips. " Yes, you have been happy. It was the dream of my life to buy your happiness, and I bought it. How long has it lasted ? how long have we been in this paradise, ke Adam and Eve ?" '' Two years," she says softly. " Ah ! yes ; and our boy is a year old. Let me see him, Theresa. I should like to see him once again before the darkness falls." Her heart sinks ; there is an icy thrill through all her veins ; grief's dire clutch is on her very soul ; but she keeps calm, and without a tear brings her rosy boy to his dying father's bed, and sees him pat that haggard face, and press dewy lips on the clammy brow. There is death in the long wistful gaze Forgotten Lives. 263 which Ernest Bosperis bends on his young child — death in the last fixed look with which his hollow eyes follow the little one to the door, as his rosy face disappears for ever from his haggard sight. Then his eyes close, and he sleeps a fitful sleep, full of pain and restlessness, while his wife watches him with agony in her every breath. When he wakes there is a touch of wildness in his eyes, a spot of fever on his hollow cheeks. " I was thinking of an odd story, Theresa; an old, old story." "Yes," she says, and she keeps her eyes upon him to hold him with her. " That old, odd story of the serpent. This woman did it, the man said. Well, it was a lie — a shifty lie ! I mean, if I had said as he did." He closes his eyes, a dark shadow rushes up over his face to his very brow. She bends over him, shrinking, trembling. " Do not talk, dearest, it hurts you.'' "No, it does me good. It must out, whether 1 will or no." The fevered aspect grows upon him, his eyes have a strange wild look of pain. '' It was a he, Theresa. I meant to do 264 Forgotten Lives. it. I went there with that direful purpose like a hell in me." " Hush ! hush ! you talk wildly. Try to sleep again, Ernest.'' Her cheeks burn, her lips tremble, her ears are filled up with a great rushing pain. He looks at her with a sort of madness in his hollow eyes. " She held back my hand with a sudden scream. * It is not I,' she said, ' sleeping there.' The girl started up at her shriek, and her breast touched the dagger. God 1 I was just saved from murder. She saved me, and then she died ; that all the world might say, ' This woman did it !' So she bought your happiness Theresa, not I. She gave our child a lawful name ; she made you my wife indeed ; but she was mad, you know, poor thing — quite mad. And I hated her ! Where am I ? Is this your hand, Theresa? Kiss me, love. What does David say ? ' Passing the love of woman.' No, no, not hers ; she died starved. I see her face often in the night, when you are sleeping. Hush, speak softly ! It is here now ; she is listening — and she smiles on you, Theresa. God forgive me and her ! I would give no evidence ; how could I ? I would have died Forgotten Lives. 265 first. It did not seem so hard then. I had no child. Take care of him, dearest. I am going away." He falls asleep for ever, and she goes out of her earthly paradise into the wide vrorld, with her boy in her trembling arms, and a shadow npon her heart — which she never lifts. ***** St. Ceciha and all her sister temples still flourish ; and hidden behind their gates are still the pale hordes of untaught sickly charity-gMs, England's wasted and For- g^otten Lives. THE END. 