THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. BY MARY CECIL HAY, AUTHOB OP "OLD MYDDELTON'S MONEY," " VICTOR AND VANQUISHED," &c. &c. CHAPTER I. "VTOT by any means that sort of room through -*- * which we steer correctly in the darkness, to lay our hand on any certain book or packet. On the contrary, it was that kind of room in which the book we seek has vanished out of sight (as books we seek have ever such a vicious trick of doing) and in which the one required packet of papers is always hidden in the last drawer we think of opening. A room in which the furniture had a knack of turning up unexpectedly in new spots, as if it enjoyed a revel on its own account, when left alone in the wide and lofty solitude ; and in which, when the oak shelves were cleared, and the books dusted every Springtime, paper- VOL. I. B 2 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. knives and old letters fell from between their leaves as thickly as the white flakes of cherry- blossom fell in those long and dusky orchards by the river. Not a neat and orderly room by any means. The first volume of Puritan Divines stood side by side with the second volume of Black Sheep ; one riding-glove and a whip lay on a half- finished letter, and a little angry terrier stood with his fore-paws planted on a rare archi- tectural design, while he snapped defiance, and wondered over the forbearance of half a dozen canine curios who lay about, unmoved by the sound to which they have been obliged, by de- grees (and patience) to accustom themselves. Not a neat room, indeed ; and it would be as difficult to fancy it so as to realise what Tur- ner's brush would have made of a modern London drawing-room ; but who could deny its artistic luxury and beauty? High up to the arched roof— on which the frescoed gods and goddesses of a long-lived mythology had danced, and sung, and smiled, and slept, while genera- tion after generation of the living occupants be- low passed from their sight — extended the rows of volumes which it had taken centuries to gather; THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 3 and, though bo many were wrongly placed, the Squires of Kingswood — who all had loved their books and known them well, in a pleasant, desultory fashion — had been offered fabulous sums for only a few of these rare chosen vol- umes. And, though there were ink-spots on the gilded leather, and dogs lying on the vel- vet; and though the carving and the work of Florence but little accorded with the trophies of South Africa; or old Egyptian with the newest English devices; yet the medley formed a picture of true warmth and beauty and refinement. From the long row of windows, on one side of this room, stretched a wide view of the spreading park, with the deer peeping from its dim retreats, and the river gleaming like silver in the Spring sunshine, before it hid itself behind the slope of wooded park on the west. But only from one corner window could a glimpse be caught of the woods which rose behind the mansion like a crown above its calm grey front* It is said that a Squire of Kingswood once, at a royal supper in the Brighton Pavilion, offered to present Kingswood, as a gift, to any commoner in England who could simply B2 4 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. show him a finer estate. And the merry guests accepted the challenge, and the Prince himself offered to be umpire. But it is said, too, that no seat could be found so wonderfully enriched by nature and art, and that the Prince came over and gave his verdict to that effect, under the carved and frescoed roof of this very library ; and then had such a week of revelry within the fine old house that even he remember- ed it, until — his revelry over — he wore that plain court dress which boasts no flash of jewels. The library at Kingswood was rarely unoc- cupied, and upon that bright Spring morning the fretful bark of the little terrier was not the chief sound which climbed to the painted ceil- ing. There seemed further cause for that broad smile upon the face of old Silenus; for Scot Monkton, the old Squire's only son, lying back in a folding chair of Italian workman- ship — his hair almost the colour of the old bronze velvet cushions— had his cornet to his mouth, and was rehearsing his favourite airs in one unbroken programme, and in one key ; a little excruciatingly now and then, it must be confessed, but generally with clear tone and unfaulty modulation. THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 5 « Capital r Scot bestowed that word of praise upon him- self after he had, very softly and slowly, played through " Napolitaine ;" but when, in the flush of self-satisfaction, he had attempted and re- attempted a peculiar variation of terrific com- pass, in which he could not please his own correct ear, he drew a slide from his instrument, and turned and glanced at the deerhound, who, in but ill-concealed anguish, sat behind the low chair, and occasionally juat touched his mas- ter's tumbled hair with his nose, as a gentle reminder that he had had what he considered quite sufficient in the way of musical entertain- ment. "A failure, Monarch," Scot said, with a laugh in his warm blue eyes ; " an ignominious failure. But make the most of this delicious pause, old fellow, for I mean to try again and conquer. Here goes !" The elaborate and original variation on " Napolitaine, I am dreaming of thee " was but two bars old, when it met an untimely death by the entrance of a tall, black-whiskered gentleman, who had been more than once heard to remark that he should have practised the 6 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. cornet too, but that he considered a gentleman's butler ought to have higher tastes. " Oliver Wakeley's wife , is here, sir. She wished me to tell you that her husband has been released this morning., She seemed anxious for you to know, and I promised to bring the message myself to you, sir." "Thanks, Sutton. I'm very sorry for the poor girl." "Her eyes ought to have been open, sir, when she married him. He'd been in prison before. This time that's over to-day is about the sixth that I can remember. I think his wife was anxious you should know he was free, sir. I fancy she wished me to warn the keepers." " I would forget to do it if I were you," ob- served the young master, the lazy attitude rather at variance with the firmness of the bearded chin, and the pleasant look of the un- tired eyes. "Wakeley's poaching days are over, I fancy; and he will scarcely rob the poultry-yard again." " But he would stick at nothing, sir. 1 am Bure even his wife is afraid of what he may do next." THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 7 "We'll give him a chance, though," observed Scot, fitting the mouthpiece on his cornet, and drawing his handkerchief across his pointed beard, preparatory to a return to "Napoli- taine." " We may be very sure that the Squire •will not let him off easily if he soon offends again ; so I hope, if only for Anna's sake, that he wont offend again," " Even she has no faith in him, sir." Sutton made that remark without any ex- pectation of an answer, and then retreated; silent and upright, just as Mr.- Forbes, the Squire's private secretary, reached the library door, to be greeted by an upper " C," particu- larly clear and loud and well-sustained, from the young Squire's silver cornet. Again Scot's original variation broke off abruptly. He low- ered his instrument, seeing that his father's secretary wished to speak to him. "I am taking some business letters into Minton, to catch the afternoon mail. Can I post any for you ¥ Or can I write any for you* Mr. Monkton ?" " Let me see — Fm sure I wrote it this morn- ing. Is it there ?" " Here are a few lines written." 8 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. "What do they say!" " * My dear father, all right. Glad you have fixed Saturday, for I think that old chum of yours has kept you long enough. You will find me '—that is all, sir." "Oh! well, just finish it up, Forbes, will you ? Say he will find me at Grosvenor Place. I know he won't travel here on Sunday, and he won't like to be thrown back on his clubs. So I'll go up to town, and make myself at home in Grosvenor Place. Then end it — just as you'd end a letter of your own to a pater. Thank you, Forbes," he added, courteously, when the secre- tary rose with the letter in his hand: " Take the Dean, if you like. He will be fresh to-day, and will bring you back within the hour. Stay one moment, though, and tell me if I have that one note right now in Pro Peccatis" Scot had just played the beautiful melody through ; and the secretary stood with bent head, as he had stood throughout, failing to detect a false note, when a letter was brought in, which Scot Monkton, by a sign, directed should be given to Mr. Forbes. " It is a request that the bearer — one Mon- sieur Philippe Sourdet — be allowed to visit the THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 9 picture-gallery here," explained the secretary, " and it is signed * Stanley Monkton.' " Scot burst into a hearty fit of laughter, and laid down his cornet beside a silver statuette of the Madonna which stood on a table near him. " Why, that is the first letter Stanley Monk- ton ever wrote to me in his life. It shall be honoured, by Jove, though he is a " "Is not Mr. Stanley Monkton next heir to Eingswood t" " Yes ; so you did right to pull me up. Now what about this Frenchman? Must 1 take Artaud as an interpreter ?" Forbes laughed at the idea of an educated gentleman like Scot Monkton using his valet as interpreter. " Perhaps Monsieur Sourdet may speak Eng- lish as easily as you speak French," he said. The picture-gallery at Kingswood ran along the whole length of the house, and was strik- ingly beautiful as well as vast. Therefore Scot Monkton's surprise at his companion's start of admiration, clearly proved that he was not the one accustomed to show this splendid gallery. "I always preferred going alone over the 10 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. foreign picture-galleries," observed Scot, saun- tering along with his deerhound at his heels. " If you feel so, monsieur, I will leave you here." " I would rather," said the Frenchman, speak- ing in perfect, though not the purest, English, and with a smiling, though rather intent, gaze into the young Englishman's face, " that I had your society, and any information you will vouchsafe." " The man is a snob," mused Scot ; " but, as my father's cousin sent him, I must forget that unpleasant fact." " You are of course a connoisseur in pictures," he observed aloud, wondering a little at the suavity of his companion's manner. " I shall have no need to point out to you the choice paintings. This? Yes, this is valuable— though not a pleasing subject — 'St. Lawrence on the Gridiron,' by Pellegrino. Beyond, you see a whole galaxy of kings and courtiers, by Holbein and Sir Peter Lely ; no need to point out which are Vandyck'fc heads, or call your attention to that Sacred Head by Albert Diirer." Scot felt that he was creditably fulfilling his novel and self-imposed task, and was very much THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 11 inclined to compliment himself aloud ; but, after a few more explanatory sentences, he fell back mentally upon his old opinion as to Monsieur Sourdet's want of claim to the title of gentle- man, and grew a little irritable as his elaborate obsequiousness nowand then amounted to down- right servility. In no respect was the contrast between them more marked than in this — Scot's natural, high-bred ease and courtesy being in- separable from him in his most careless moods, and Philippe Sourdet's fictitious polish being dropped in his unguarded moments, and resum- ed with a sudden and spasmodic effort. " The value of these portraits," observed Scot, pointing down the gallery from where they stood, " is due to the artists, rather than the subjects ; for they are all my own ancestors." " I am proud to be introduced to so many Monktons," said the Frenchman, with a smile and bow, and with a brightening of both tone and glance which was not lost upon the keen young Englishman* " May I ask you to assist me here with your superior knowledge ? For instance " — he had sauntered on, his heavy dark eyes leaving no pictured face unscrutinised, until he stood before the portrait of a young 12 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. man in the costume of thirty years ago, with a narrow delicate face and thin dark hair— " is that the youthful portrait of the present Squire?" " My father I No, nor at all like him, though his brother." " His — younger brother, I presume !" " Why presume it, monsieur?" The young Squire asked the question without thought, as his eyes rested upon the painted face which formed so strong a contrast to his own; and so he did not see how keenly the Frenchman watched him, while, without a sound, he drew something from his pocket. " No, he was my father's elder brother," con- tinued Scot, in his mellow and rather lazy tones. "He died young; indeed he and his wife both died within two years of their mar- riage. Monarch, stand back ; Sir Joshua's colours were not laid on for the benefit of your nose." Scot had stepped forward after his dog ; and as he did so Monsieur Sourdet's eyes moved, quickly and shrewdly, twice backwards and forwards, between the picture of which he had spoken and something which he held con- cealed in the palm of his hand. THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 13 " How melancholy !" he said then, as young Monkton turned to join him again. " Did the tragic events occur at Kingswood ?" " Yes. He married just before my grand- father's death. My grandfather was very fond of Lady Emily Stuart, and wished the marriage to take place before his death, little thinking how soon both bride and bridegroom were to follow him." " Most melancholy," observed the Frenchman, stepping back a pace, his arms folded so that the closed fingers of one hand were not visi- ble. " But he certainly must have been delicate and — weak ; pardon me, for he is undoubtedly what you English call high-bred." " Undoubtedly," returned Scot, with a glimpse of the natural, quiet haughtiness which lay below his easy cordiality. "I am wearying you, I fear," said Monsieur Sourdet, with a full, critical glance into his com- panion's face; "but these, as works of art, interest me greatly." " If only as works of art," said Scot, " let me adTiae you to hurry on, and enjoy those land- scapes of Claude's." "Ah," exclaimed Sourdet, moving only one 14 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. step forward, "that must surely have been the Lady Emily Stuart — Monkton, I should say. The portraits are evidently a pair. She is— » well, hardly so beautiful as I should have imagined." " She was very winning, and very good," re- turned Scot, coolly. "And she obtained a wonderful influence over young Scot Monkton, who had chiefly, I believe, before that time, been notable for succumbing to evil influence only." " Your father's brother had your name, then, sir," remarked Monsieur Sourdet, with a bow, " though in features you are so great a contrast. He was pale, too, and slight in figure. Was there no likeness in any respect, Mr. Monkton — in height, say, or voice !" " He died five years before my birth," return- ed Scot, quietly dismissing the personal ques- tions. " That is the portrait of my father, the owner of Kingswood," he continued, passing slowly on ; " and there, of course, you recog- nise myself; and then follow dozens more of us, whom you could not recognise, made famous only, as I said before, by Lawrence, and Rey- nolds, and Gainsborough, and other master hands." THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 15 " Allow me to detain you one moment," put in Monsieur Sourdet, pausing, and pointing at random, while his eyes went back surrep- titiously to that pictured face he had been studying. " That !" cried Scot, with unfeigned astonish- ment, as he followed the man's finger, but not his gaze. "How can you need that portrait named, when it was from the original that you brought to-day the introduction to this gal- lery *" Even over the Frenchman's swarthy skin the colour spread rapidly under Scot's questioning gaze. " Yes — surely yes. I distinguish the likeness now, Mr. Monkton," explained Sourdet, with evident eagerness. " Of course I ought to have recognized Mr. Stanley Monkton's portrait in a moment, when he has been so complaisant to me. " You do know him, then ?" questioned Scot, coolly. "Know him, sir! Is it not to him that I owe this day's enjoyment ? Has he not often talked to me abroad of this beautiful estate which — since I have had the honour of seeing 16 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. you, Mr. Monkton — I feel him to have but the very feeblest chance of poMewngf" " This man," mused Scot again to himself, without a trace of the thought upon his face, "is a liar as well as a snob." " That is pretty," observed Sourdet, making an effort to interest himself further in the por- traits, now that he had changed his position. " Yes," said Scot, glancing at the cold and colourless picture of a young lady in a muslin dress and sylvan hat ; " a cousin of my father's. She lived here until she was five-and-thirty, and then married and went abroad; and we have never heard of her since. That is fifteen years ago." " How could she bear to quit the luxury of Kingswood to share a soldier's wandering life?" " You spring rather rapidly to conclusions," remarked Scot, with a smile. "Her husband was an engineer." "Probably she was the first Monkton who ever formed a misallianceT 9 inquired the French- man, with a sinister smile upon his lips. " She was not a Monkton/' So Scot dismissed the subject, not thinking it worth while to tell this man that their THE SQUIRE'S LEG ACT. It notions might vary on that point, as well as on many others. They had gone down the whole length of the gallery, when the south door near them opened, and Mr. Forbes advanced to Scot, with an irre- pressible smile upon his face. " A lady is below, Mr. Monkton, inquiring for you. She arrived in the fly from Patten Sta- tion, just as I dismounted ; so I am come to ask if I may supply your place here." When the introduction was over, and Scot had left the gallery, Monsieur Sourdet turned with a smile to the young secretary. " None of these knights and dames," he said, in his slow, harsh tones, " need feel ashamed of their young representative of to-day. One is forced to admire his sunburnt face and muscular, well-knit figure. And yet perhaps in height — I do not know, but I fancy so — he would be in- ferior to most of his race. Is it not fact I" " Mr. Monkton is just the average height, I believe," returned the secretary, wondering, as Scot had done, at these personal remarks. "His father is three inches taller, as was his grandfather." VOL. I. C ' IS v- 18 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. " And the uncle whose name he bears — was he not taller too ?" " I really do not know," was the almost im- patient reply. " I know nothing of him save his picture ; and. that proves him to have been as unlike as possible to Mr. Scot Monkton." " I owe him a debt of gratitude," observed the Frenchman, with a suave smile ; "yet I know I have wearied him ; for, with all his courtesy, he could not hide the drawing-room languor inhe- rent in young men of his rank." " Probably, monsieur," said Mr. Forbes, with a laugh, "you have heard what sort of men make the best heroes when called to arms. At any rate, I would rather be on his side than against him, when the young Squire's fighting time shall come." "I scarcely follow your figurative speech, sir," said Philippe Sourdet, with a hidden sneer in his bland tone of apology. "Does Mr. Monkton intend to join the Army, do I under- stand?" "Certainly not, except figuratively, as you said. He travels a good deal — he has but lately returned from the East — but he always enjoys Kingswood best of all. He loves the beautiful THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 19 old place dearly; and he is as much master here as the Squire himself." In the meantime Scot had descended to the hall, a great amusement as well as astonish- ment shining in his eyes as he advanced to where a small, middle-aged lady, with a colour- less complexion and in a colourless dress, stood weeping silently, while she watched two footmen carrying a huge box into the hall, and while the station fly still waited before the door, looking very shabby in the glare of the Spring sunshine, and in the midst of its splendid surroundings. Scot involuntarily paused a moment, in wonder at this unexpected arrival, and then a sudden recognition broke upon his face. • " Aunt Michal ! What a surprise !" "Tell them where to take my box, Scot," said the little lady, drying her tears feebly, and laying a limp hand within his arm. «I am come." " So I see, Aunt l^ichal," returned Scot, with his pleasant laugh. " Mrs. Sutton will manage all about the boxes and things. And, Sutton, you hasten luncheon, and Jay for the French — gentleman who is upstairs." As he spoke, he led his unexpected visitor into the room nearest c2 20 THE squire's legacy. which they had met, and stood opposite the couch on which she had sunk despondently. "I won't ask you any questions until you have rested, aunt," said Scot, at a loss as to his expected mode of consolation. " Why should you ask any questions at all ?" she cried, with unlooked-for vehemence, " I am come back — that's all." "And I am very glad to see you, Aunt Michal," said the young Squire, with reckless hospitality, "though I ought not to have slipped back into my boyish trick of calling you aunt, ought I? Do you remember how it amused Mr. Hawthorne ?" " I remember nothing about him. And I'm your father's cousin now, as I was then, and your aunt," was the illogical retort, delivered in a flood of tears which seemed to be capable of disappearing as suddenly as they could be evoked. "I forget all about him. I'm come back Michal Windish, just as I went away." "But you went away Mrs. Hawthorne," laughed Scot, " in an open bridal carriage, with slippers falling round it, and bandfuls of rice clinging to your wedding bonnet and to my cousin Hawthorne's long beard." THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 21 " I hate rice — and slippers," Miss Michal an- nounced, in a tone almost bordering on cheerful- ness, "and I've done with Luke Hawthorne. He's done no harm — you needn't look such a question — but we just found that, ' like the pair that tell the weather, we could never live to- gether.' Thank goodness I remembered I'd another home ; so I came to it. That's all." " From where, Aunt Michal f " " I forget ; it was three thousand miles away. Will luncheon soon be ready I" « But " "Don't question me, Scot. You don't look rude and inquisitive, but I won't answer any questions even from you. I am Miss Windish, as I was during the five-and-thirty years I lived here before ; and I won't put it into your power to answer any interfering questions, nor oblige you to tell a falsehood for my sake." "But I was going to say, would it not be wiser to keep the name by which, for fifteen years, we have all known you ?" " I'm tired of it." was the brisk retort ; " it always was hideous. I like Windish best, and* I don't see why I shouldn't claim my own old property. There, we've done with that subject 22 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. now ; don't mention Luke again, nor that un- fortunate occurrence of the rice and slippers. He wasn't to blame — nobody was to blame, except you ; you were his best man, and took him to the church ; you were but a lad, of course, but you might have known better." "At any rate, Aunt Michal," said Scot, detecting an under-current of self-reproach in every tone, whether defiant or dejected, " my father will be delighted to find you here when he returns." A prompt burst of tears greeted this polite observation. "Delighted!" she sobbed, laying vehement hold on this new grievance. " flow can he be delighted ? Who is ever likely to be delighted by seeing me? But" (more cheerfully) "I'd nowhere else to go, so I came here. I shall fit into my old place presently; but I've been unused to this life lately, Scot, and the house seems so enormous, and so full of servants. But still," she added, with a satisfied glance down the suite of magnificent drawing-rooms, "I'm sure I shall find enough to do in keeping the rooms neat. I can actually see two pianos open — and look at all those mathematical THE squire's legacy. 23 instruments thrown on that mosaic table." " How do you know they were thrown, Aunt Michal ?" asked Scot, pleasantly. " But see — here is Mrs. Sutton, to show you to your rooms ; she evidently remembers you." " I will thank you now," said Miss Windish, standing, small and weak, before the portly figure of the housekeeper, " to drop that name by which you have falsely addressed me, my good woman. I remember you as Mrs. Sutton, you remember me as Miss Windish. I entirely forget what has occurred since then, and so do you. That's all." " I understand, ma'am," returned the house- keeper, prudently avoiding her young master's laughing eyes. In less than half an hour Miss Windish, with no trace of her three thousand miles' journey, sat just in her old place at the long diniug- table — a little nervous, as if the scene and position were unfamiliar to her, but with such a struggle against the betrayal of this fact that only shrewd eyes could have detected it ; but then the eyes round the table that day were shrewd. The dining-room at Kingswood, even during 24 THE squire's legacy. this mid-day meal, was a scene of luxury and pomp, far more novel to Monsieur Sourdet than it could be to Miss Windish, even after a fifteen years' absence. The richness and beauty of the furniture and appointments, the delica- cies of the table and rarity of the wines — in fact, the splendour and profusion of everything, — caused the Frenchman a feeling oddly com- pounded of both envy and self-gratulation ; and minute after minute his manner grew more painfully obsequious, while the well- trained servants wondered curiously why this strange man had not been left to lunch alone. " Have you finished your examination of the pictures, Monsieur Sourdet?" inquired Scot, pleasant and genial in his character of host, though his whole nature recoiled from this man ; " and are you not tired of it ?" " I should never be tired of such occupation, Mr. Monkton ; and just as you spoke I was about to ask you if I might see the family photographs. You have some very valuable ones, I have heard." A cloud gathered on Scot Monkton's brow. Did his cousin's letter oblige him to show this man private family property? He would do THE squire's legacy, 25 much for Stanley Monkton, because it was so hard for him to have a healthy life between himself and a fine estate which he might have inherited ; but still he surely need not do that, " You must be very fond of studying family portraits," he said, idly. " You must be very clever at it," observed Miss Windish, her light eyes fixed upon the Frenchman's face with no expression at all, though he stirred uncomfortably under their gaze ; " very clever, indeed, to have recognised me from a poor portrait taken thirty years ago." "I could not mistake you, madam," he answered, with a bow. " And it is a favourite study of mine, Mr. Monkton." " It must be," remarked the young secretary, addressing Scot, * c for Monsieur Sourdet has allowed me to understand that he has spent two years in this study among the English gentry." "Then have you not discovered," asked Scot, " that the English gentry — like the Eng- lish peasantry — like to possess one or two little articles of property which they may call ex- clusively their own ?" 26 THE squire's legacy. "I hope my ignorance may be excusable," rejoined the Frenchman, -with a tightening of his heavy lips, " on the plea that I am not my- self an Englishman. I have the misfortune to be a native of the Alps, upon the French side." Miss Windish raised her round light eyes once more. " Then perhaps," she questioned, deliberately, "you know San Remo ?" " Intimately." As he answered, he drew his napkin slowly across his lips, looking down upon his plate the while. " No spot in the world is more familiar to me ; the first five- and-twenty years of my life were passed in that neighbourhood." " And the second five-and-twenty have not obliterated its memory ?" Scot cut off his aunt's speech hastily. What right had she to make a guess, however true a one, at the age of his guest If " What do you think of this neighbourhood, Monsieur Sourdet?" " I think it perfect. As I came from the sta- tion I noticed one picturesque house on your estate, Mr. Monkton, in which the masons and carpenters were at work. It is about to be THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 27 tenanted, I presume. It is a beautiful spot for anyone to have chosen." "It is the Kingswood Dower House," ex- plained Scot, "and it is let again to an old tenant who occupied it many years ago— Colo- nel Egerton, Aunt Michal." " I remember," put in Miss Windish, in a slow tone. " He had the Dower House when he was home from the Cape on sick leave, with his second wife. He had a son in the Army, who kept the house on for a time after his father left." "Yes; and now Colonel Egerton will have with him only the daughter of his second wife, a little girl he left behind in London, if you recollect — a little girl, I say, but I suppose she must be seventeen or eighteen now. He was so glad to find he could have the old house . again. He is leaving the Army now." " Young Egerton was a Royal Engineer, I remember. Where is he ?" " You must ask the Colonel," said Scot ; but even his aunt could see that he purposely turn* ed aside the question. " You don't remember Arthur Egerton ?" she said, snappishly. 28 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. " Why, of course I do, Aunt Michal. Recol- lect, I am nearly thirty." "In your grade, Mr. Monkton," said the Frenchman, with a smile, "age can be no secret, can it ? That is one of the penalties of riches." The long, luxurious meal had come to an end now, and directly Miss Windish rose from the table, Monsieur Sourdet took his leave. As soon as ever he had left the grand old house behind, and Scot's pleasant high-bred tones could be heard no longer, a certain air of relief was evident both in the face and figure of the Frenchman ; his bearing relaxed, and the suave smile gave place to one of reckless cunning. "Yet the young swell gave me a first-rate dinner," he said, as if finishing a thought aloud ; " the best dinner I ever ate — that had a grace before it. He's lavish in everything else ; we shall see about the money presently." It was by no means the direct way to the station which Monsieur Sourdet was taking. He had turned aside from the high road, and was following the narrow field-path which, for a little space, skirted the famous woods behind Xingswood. Leaving the woods then, he came THE squire's legacy. 29 presently upon a cottage which stood by it- self upon the slope, a row of slender poplars behind it, and a neat little garden in front. Against the door of this cottage lounged a man whom Monsieur Sourdet appeared to recognise in a moment. With a resumption of that smile which for a time he had laid aside, he pushed open the narrow gate, and addressed this man with a familiarity which totally failed in its attempt at ease. " I have called in, as I said I would, to thank you for your guidance this morning. As you remarked, it is not difficult for a man to find his way to Kingswood." "No, it takes up a deal too much of the county — so I think." "You are right," returned the Frenchman, blandly. " The mother-country should be more equally divided among her sons. I want to ask you to be my pilot once again." The man — a coarse-featured, broad-built fel- low, with a moody scowl upon his face, and a suspicious inclination for the support of the door-post — stared incredulously at these words ; but the look changed to one of surly satisfac- tion when Philippe Sourdet took a flask from 30 the squire's legacy. his pocket, and proposed that they should re- fresh themselves before starting, if glasses and water were obtainable. The man. turned and led the way into the cottage, and, as Sourdet followed, a woman rose from a seat at the window, and moved to- wards the door. The Frenchman's eyes fol- lowed her, partly in admiration, partly in sur- prise — the exquisite neatness of her hair and dress being, even in his eyes, so out of place in the home of this ruffian, who had to-day com- pleted his tenth term of imprisonment. " Go back !" he shouted. " No sneakin' away! You needn't speak; nobody wants to hear ye; but you'll just stay theer. When a man has purty things of his own, he Kkes to be able to see 'em, and feel he 'owns 'em." "Perhaps your wife," said Sourdet, with a smile, as the young woman went silently back to her seat, and he studied the pretty outlines of her figure, and the sad droop of her head in its prim white cap, " will kindly prove herself as useful as she is ornamental, Wakeley, and provide us with water and glasses?" "D'ye heart" called Wakeley, without ad- dressing his wife by name. And she rose and THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 31 set what he wanted on the table. Everything was so spotlessly dean in the little cottage that the men, as they sat and drank there, looked like two huge blots, which would leave their stain for ever on its whiteness. " An overbearing despot, I'll wager. He looked as if he'd as soon inarch a tenant off to gaol as he'd send a horse to be shod. I can quite understand your determination to pay him out for this last detention." So Sourdet answered the question as to whether he had Been young Monkton ; and Anna Wakeley raised her head slightly as she listened, though her needle never halted in its task. "Only wait till I get the chance !" was the rough retort. "Theer's plenty about as 'ate him as well as me, only they want a leader. You've no cause to love him, I s'pose." "Indeed, no!" laughed Sourdet, rubbing his hands softly. "But after my next interview I shall be able to tell you more. At any rate, he ought not to be allowed to tread upon his tenants' necks." "I'll stop that some day," muttered Oliver Wakeley, morosely. 32 THE squire's legacy. His wife rose suddenly from her seat at the window, and came between them. " I don't know who you are," she said, ad- dressing the Frenchman, " nor why you come here ; but you shall not utter such words un- contradicted in my hearing ! The young Squire of Kingswood is loved, and not hated, by his tenants. Ask them — ask any one of them who is not a poacher and a Ask anyone on all the estate, except my own husband. The young Squire is a brave, generous, friendly gentleman, and they all know it, and are proud to say it. He stand on the necks of his tenants ! Go away, and tell those falsehoods where they will be be- lieved ! My husband hardly knows what he is saying to-day ; but you know, and so I will not hear you." " Be more gracious ; do be more gracious," pleaded Sourdet, with a sneer on his lips. " Your tantrums are not so becoming as your demure mood over there ; though the colour improves your face — by Jupiter, it does I There, there, be calm, and sit down again. Your husband is perfectly sober, and a very sensible fellow — so sensible that, if you don't take care, he will be terribly angry with you." "Angry!" cried the man, his half-drunken THE squire's legacy. 33 ferocity roused by this hint. "If you don't mind yer own business, my girl, we'll soon know who's master. D'ye think I don't know who sent me to gaol ?" " J do," returned the woman, steadily ; " you have yourself to thank. Honest men don't lodge in gaol three or four times a year, as you used to do before you came to live here. To pretend it was the Squire's fault! Why, Mr. Monkton pardoned you the first time ! Do you forget?" " Men don't forget this sort o' thing anyway," was the sullen retort. a You are right," assented Sourdet, promptly. "I never could either forgive or forget such treatment." Dropping her eyes slowly from his face, Anna Wakeley turned away, and took her seat and her work again. When the men rose to leave, Sourdet asked her a question suddenly. " Have you a bed-room to spare in this neat little cottage?" "Bed-room? Yes," put in her husband, eagerly, while her head was still bent over her work. " She knows as we've one to spare. D'ye want it?" VOL. I. D 34 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. "Not to-night; but — presently. May I con- sider it mine, Mrs. Wakeley V 9 She raised her eyes with one appealing glance at her husband. " No, no !" she cried. " Harm may come of it, Oliver. Tell him, no." The man made one step forward, with his hand raised, as if he would strike her. Even Sourdet shrank back a little. But bravely and calmly she stood before her husband, and his unsteady hand fell to his side again. "You'll do as I make ye, anyway," he muttered, as he turned away. "Then we will consider that settled," said the Frenchman, kissing his hand to Auna Wakeley, smiling to see the silent pain upon her face, while her head bent lower and lower over her work. "And don't be fanciful, my good girl, or harm may come of it." 35 CHAPTER II. WHEN Monsieur Sourdet had taken his de- parture from Kingswood, Miss Windish followed Scot to the open hall door, where he stood whistling softly to himself, and wondering whether his aunt would rest this afternoon, and leave him free for a ride ; for what but a gallop could scatter the unpleasant reminiscences of Monsieur Philippe Sourdet, and afford him an escape from feminine tears 1 It was just as he had decided to make a struggle for it that Miss Windish touched him on the shoulder with two weak fingers. " He might just as well have chosen another day," she whined, her round eyes profusely flooded. " Why should he have come just the day I came ?" " And, on the other hand, Aunt Michal, why should he not V 9 d2 36 THE squire's legacy. * " Don't smile about it, Scot," fretted Misa Michal, with a sudden change from damp entreaty to dry petulance. " I don't like the look of it." " Don't be superstitious, Aunt Michal. Super- stition is such bosh." " I am superstitious, Scot I've seen so much that no wonder I'm superstitious." "But you'll see so much more," said Scot, composedly, "that your wonder will be that you ever could have been superstitious, Aunt Michal." " Scot," whispered Miss Windish, with broken utterance, "I'm certain he had a motive for coming here — I'm certain of it — and a motive in every question he asked/' " Of course he had. People always have." " Wasn't his complexion awfully saturnine ?" " And his * motive ' was to show it us, you mean ?" " There are lots of priceless paintings here, murmured Miss Windish, in an aggrieved tone " but you know, as well as I do, that he made no remarks upon those. He was much more interested in you and your relations than in any artist, living or dead." THE squire's legacy. 37 "And preferred Michal Angela to Michael Angelo, eb ? To tell the truth, aunt," added Scot, as he drew his cigar-case from his pocket, " IVe had sufficient of that Franco-Englishman for to-day ; and if you haven't, I hope you'll think him over while you rest. You must need a good rest now, I'm sure ; but I hope I shall see you at dinner. We dine just as we used to do, at half-past seven." "I don't like to be left. I daresay there's nothing for me to do all over the house." " Then come with me," proposed Scot, with a spasm of self-denial. " Well, that is inconsiderate," returned Miss Michal, briskly, "when I haven't even un- packed." " Then good-bye," laughed Scot, raising his hat. He went slowly down the marble steps, lighting his cigar ; and ten minutes afterwards he rode from the stable-yard, across the park, to that portion of it which was open to the public* and at the farther end of which stood the Dower House. When he came from the wooded avenue, out into the open drive which, passing the fair stretch of lawn before the Dower House, 38 THE squire's legacy. led into the highway, he became aware of the hurrying tread of Lses behind bin, Scot, knowing he should meet no strangers in his own park, drew bridle and waited. They were two young ladies, who rode up to him, with a groom in attendance ; yet Scot's eyes were quizzical rather than pleased when, after his greeting, he guided his little chestnut mare to walk beside them. " What an unexpected pleasure to have met you here, Mr. Monkton !" said the girl nearest to him. "Isn't it, Vi?" turning to appeal to her sister. "Very," assented Violet, without any mis- givings as to whether Scot would feel it natural to be unexpected in his own park. " If they would drop their bridle hands, and sit a little straighter, it would not so much matter," Scot was musing to himself; but he only said aloud that it was a great pleasure to have met them. And he thought he meant it, too. Ever since young Mr. Levey and his sisters had bought an estate near Kingswood — which they named Osborne House, and made, both without and within, like a showy London villa THE squire's legacy. 39 — Scot had schooled himself to follow what he considered the dictates of his conscience (people were given to say, even then, that Scot Monk- ton had rather a peculiar conscience), and accept genially the right hand of fellowship held out to him so persistently by the wealthy son and daughters of a Jew usurer, whose father and grandfather had been usurers before him. But though, to all appearance, his effort was a com- plete success, Scot could not help it that their conduct and conversation grated so often upon his senses, or that their shallow and paraded polish was all but repugnant to him, as a sturdy English gentleman, thorough in all he said or did. It was an evident fact that Bernard Levey tried to form himself upon the model of the young Squire of Kingswood ; but the attempt was an ignoble failure, and it was better for Mr. Levey that it should be so. In his own line, as a well-meaning, well-dressed young man, with a hundred tastes, and very littlfc proficiency, and possessing a pious horror of two things which were somewhat at variance with the practices of his ancestors — soiled hands, and a dislike of spending the coin of the realm — Bernard Levey, 40 THE squire's legacy. as master in his spick-and-span mansion, was a small lion in his way. But when he openly be- trayed any imitation of Scot Monkton he be- came amusingly ridiculous. It was said that Beriah was the name his parents had given him wh6n his white, aquiline features had been very much smaller, and surrounded by a broad cap-border ; but that on attaining years of dis- cretion he had discarded this Hebrew prseno- men, and assumed one more congenial to his position as a member of the landed gentry of England; It was said, with equal truth, that the floral appellations of Rose and Violet had been at the same time appropriated by his sisters, in preference to those of Susannah and Sarai, by which they had been known to the friends of their early youth ; but, though Scot had laughed over this legend, wondering which sister was Susannah and which Sarai, he alwavs acknowledged to himself that they had acted wisely in their generation. " It is so pleasant to have you at home again, Mr. Monkton," observed Miss Levey. " We found it so dull to ride or drive every day, and never meet anybody worth meeting all those months, didn't we, Vi !" THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 41 " Very. Are you yourself glad to be at home, Mr. Monkton !" "Something like love for the old place brought me home, Miss Levey." " But I'm afraid you will be going off again soon !" " Of course. * Sated with home, of wife and children tired, The restless soul is driven abroad to roam — Sated abroad, all seen, yet naught admired,. The restless soul is driven to wander home !'" " But why mention a wife and children, Mr. Monkton," inquired Violet, raising her eyebrows, " when you have none, you know ?" "I declare," laughed Scot, "that fact never struck me so forcibly before." " I fear you will be going up to London pre- sently," observed Rose Levey, apparently ad- dressing her horse. "I go on* Saturday, "but only to meet my father; I may go up again, later on in the season." " I am selfish enough to hope you will not — aren't you, Vi ? There is so very little society here, and Bernard does not intend to take a house in town yet." 42 THE squire's legacy. Now Scot Monkton knew, as well as they themselves knew, that London was objection- able to the Leveys, from the fact of their father's calling being so well known there ; and that it was only after having, through four successive seasons, tried, and failed, to enter the charmed limits of " town society," that they had brought themselves to be content with a rural spot, where they fancied their antecedents wrapped in a vague and aristocratic mystery. But, though he knew this, Scot only answered pleasantly that they would have a little extra society when Colonel Egerton and his daughter came. They had reached then the entrance gates at the Dower House, apd they had paused almost in- voluntarily to watch the men at work. " Miss Egerton will simply be a school-girl," remarked Miss Levey. " We have heard that she is still at school. As we rode past here this morning," she added, presently, with the inquisitiveness that belongs to a shallow, jeal- ous nature, "we saw the station fly going up to Kingswood ; didn't we, Vi? ' r "I daresay," returned Scot, readily; "an aunt of mine came home from abroad." "Unexpectedly?" THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. • 4& " She is a relation, and one always expects re- lations to turn up at any moment ; else what's the good of being a relation !" " We will call upon her," said Violet, leaning across her sister, and exhibiting a row of large white teeth. " See," she added, as at this mo- ment they caught sight of a figure walking directly towards them, beyond the gardens of the Dower House. "It is Miss Chamberlain. Isn't it comical to see the airs she puts on? You would think she was the Lady Superior of some holy sisterhood, and thought us all too wicked to talk to. Now isn't it really absurd, Mr. Monkton, that she and her brother should shut themselves up at Comely Place, as if they were too precious to mix with the vulgar herd?" " I think, perhaps," said Scot, in his pleasant^ idle tones, " that, as a rule, people are the best judges of their own affairs. So I need not trouble you with my opinion, nor will I trouble Miss Chamberlain with it ; though, if you will excuse me, I will meet her across the garden here." After they had parted from him, with smiles and handshakes, the sisters looked after Scot, until 44 . THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. they saw him dismount, and join Miss Chamber- lain on foot, the bridle of his horse over his arm. Then they walked their tall horses along the turnpike road, and wondered what Scot Monk- ton could see in that gloomy Margaret Cham- berlain to make him always treat her so defer- entially. " I did not mean to startle you, Margaret," Scot said, as, with his left hand, he opened a little gate leading into the lawn, and with his right took hers. " I saw you were coming to the Dower House, and I was coming too." It was such a different tone from that in which he had addressed his late companions — a tone so true and kind, and full of heartfelt sympathy. " Yes, I was really on my way to the Dower House," said Margaret Chamberlain, a faint blush rising in her grave face — she was a woman of eight-and-twenty, and the blush was not quick to mount now. " We shall both be glad to have the old house occupied again, shan't we, Margaret ? Especi- ally by Colonel Egerton and his little girl; because he and his son used to be such friends of ours." THE squire's legaoy. 45 " She will not even remember her step- brother !" . Margaret said the words as if they were a question, looking up almost anxiously into the young man's face, her own paling, and a slow, nervous motion stirring her hands as they hung before her; while the two friends sauntered on through the neglected garden, the fresh young beauty of the Spring afternoon around them, the tangled flowers at their feet, and the lowering sun brightening the .poplar buds above them. " Hardly," smiled Scot ; " but I hope she will remind us of him ; and I hope she will be your friend, Margaret." "I — I was thinking, as I came along," she said, the faint colour again in her cheeks, "how much pleasanter it will be for you to have neigh- bours here." " But a man ought to be independent of his neighbours," the young man rejoined, with a laugh. " How is Steven ?" "Very well," she answered, softly, while a great earnestness shone in her raised eyes. " He has walked to Minton to-day." "Really! Then I will ride to meet him." The words were light enough, but the eyes that 46 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. met Margaret's gave a steadfast answering glance, which brought to her lips a smile of real pleasure which was very rare there. " Oh, Margaret," cried Scot, before he parted from her, after walking with her to her own home, " Aunt Michal has come back ; and please remember she has come back in her old name, too. She will be so pleased if you seem to have forgotten all about her husband. Can you remember her at all?" " Oh yes ; and my old wonder why she should have been named after Saul's daughter. Is she changed ?" "Her eyes are a little more moist, and her voice a little sharper. Poor cousin Michal !" " She will be very happy at Kingswood," said Margaret, without proffering a call, as the Misses Levey had done, though Scot's confidence had been so different to her. Then they parted, Margaret turning slowly out of the Spring sun- shine, and Scot riding on to the county town. The dressing-bell had long ceased to clang its summons through the house when he dis- mounted at Kingswood, and hurried into the hall. " I must just try if I remember the melody," THE squire's legacy. 47 he said to himself, passing on to the library ; " I shall have time." But in the library, before his eyes had fallen upon his cornet, another object arrested them — Miss Windish, sitting very upright upon a couch, in a little oasis of neatness, and in pro- fuse and doleful tears. " You've been lonely, Aunt Miohalt" exclaim- ed Scot, with genuine sympathy. u I've been a bear. Never mind, we shall be all right to-mor- row. We'll have parties, and all sorts of things. We'll get plenty of excitement for you. What shall come first — a dinner, or croquet, or a pic- nic, or a dance 1 Yes, that will cto, won't it?" Miss Michal's tears fell fester, and Soot puz- zled his brains for another suggestion. " What ever makes you cry, Aunt Mkhalt" he asked at last, as a new idea. " The house is so large," she sobbed, " «ad so beautiful, and bo full of servants. There's — there's nothing for me to do." " Wait a day or two to rest, and you'll find plenty to do after that," Bmiled Scot, greatly relieved. " I'm afraid we can't remedy the aize of the house just at present ; but you'll soon feel that it's not an inch too large." 48 CHAPTER in. IT was four o'clock in the afternoon of the following Saturday, and the London mail was due at Western Junction ; but even London mails are not unfrequently overdue, and so the would-be passengers, though they chafed im- patiently at the delay, wore no anxiety upon their faces ; and not one turned back, at that last moment,' with a presage of evil at his heart. Four-seventeen, and the train had been due at four! One of the would-be passengers, who had testily grudged the seventeen wasted minutes, was a tall, elderly gentleman, whose luggage, at the farther end of the platform, was guarded by a servant in livery, and whose papers were in the charge of an unliveried servant who waited within his master's call. Four-forty ! The impatient traveller glanced again at the station clock, and, discredit- ing it, consulted his own watch; then he THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 49 turned into the telegraph office, and, drawing a printed form before him, dipped his pen into the ink and wrote — " Robert Monkton Western Junction to Scot Monkton Grosvenor Place 4*40 and the mail not in Due at 4*0 Confound it Don't send to meet me These laggard trains are never to be relied on " The ink was exhausted, as well as the matter in hand. Slowly, as if he would have liked to la think of something to add, to employ another minute of this waiting time, Squire Monkton raised his eyes and looked round the office, listening the while for the tokens of an ap- proaching train, while his eyes fell idly on a young man who, standing near, was himself penning a telegram. Gradually, and because he had nothing to do, the Squire allowed his interest to become lazily centred in this young man. He was sickly — that fact was betrayed equally by his thin hands and the heavy comforter he wore this Spring afternoon ; and he was poor — that fact was betrayed equally by his threadbare coat and the intense and concentrated anxiety with which he counted and re-counted the words in his telegram, as if VOL. I. E 50 THE squire's legacy. it were difficult, though necessary, to keep -within the twenty. Poor and weak, hard- worked and tired, perhaps ; yet scarcely more than Scot's age. And then to picture Scot I At that very moment, most likely, driving his four beautiful sorrels in Rotten Bow, his the very finest turn-out — horses, drag, and servants, altogether — in the park, and he certainly one of the finest young fellows, as well as the best whip. Such a favourite too ! Was any other father ever made so proud by the glances bestowed upon his son, or the words of praise lavished upon him ! — and— — But what had led him into this long mental glance at Scot ? Nothing, after all, but a practical glance at that lank young figure in the black suit, still poring over the written message, and still nervously trying to compress what he needed to say. " What a pity/' ruminated the Squire, " to be obliged to look so hard at a sixpence, before you can part with it ! It's a new experience. I never imagined that anyone counted the words in a telegram, except the clerk who is put here to do it." " Will you tell me if * post-office ' would be called two words ?" THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 51 The Squire's attention had been sufficiently excited to induce him to wait and listen, when the young man raised his head to ask this question of the telegraph clerk. Even before the words were all uttered, his pleasant, kindly eyes had filled with a keen intentness which was quite new to them. The clerk answered, and the young man bent to his writing again; but the Squire's telegram lay unfinished, and he stood waiting •still, and, to all appearance, listening still. He fancied he had waited a long hour so, when the young man at last rose to an upright posture, and, raising his hat for a few moments, drew a small cotton handkerchief across his forehead. The fingers of the Squire's left hand, which lay upon his telegram, closed and opened again with a convulsive spasm, but he did not move from his leaning attitude ; though when at last the clerk asked if he had completed his message, he turned and answered, with a laugh, that he supposed he had said sufficient. " One-and- sixpence, sir." The Squire put down a half-sovereign. "I cannot wait for the change," he said, speaking genially to the young man beside E2 52 THE squire's legacy. • him. " Will you oblige me by allowing the clerk to consider that that half-sovereign pays for your telegram too? There's my train. Telegrams are great nuisances, aren't they ?" And he left the office before the young man could answer. • Deep in thought, and apparently as un- comfortable as if he were conscious of a mean action, Mr. Monkton sauntered along the plat- form, until the long-expected train entered the station at last, and his valet, knowing how impatient he had been, hurried up to him. " Put the things in," said the Squire, com- posedly, while his eyes wandered beyond his servant's face, keenly and watchfully ; " there's no hurry." He was passing a second-class carriage as he spoke, and suddenly he paused, taking out his pocket-book and pretending to examine the papers it contained ; while his valet walked on, without seeing a young man advance to the door of this second-class carriage. " The train has arrived at last," said Squire Monkton, cheerily, though still with that observant look into the sickly face. " Just look at that clock. Four-forty-nine, isn't it? I THE squire's legacy. 53 shall write to the Times about this ; and, as I've called your attention to the hour, and may have occasion to call a witness to the irregularity, would you oblige me with your card f w Only those who knew Eobert Monkton's usual easy tones could have detected the sup- pressed anxiety of the present ones ; and the young man, guessing nothing of this, answered — without a thought beyond the words — that he had no card, and (with the colour rising in his worn face) that no testimony of his would be of any value. "Are you going on to town?" asked the Squire, just as if the voice of this stranger en- thralled him, while his eyes were riveted upon his face. "No, sir," the young man answered, with hardly any appearance of surprise ; u only as far as Bedley." "Oh!" Then Mr.Monkton was summoned hurriedly to his place — the dilatory train might have had a notion of making up for lost time — and his ser- vants, expressing mutual surprise at their mas- ter's conduct, took their seats together in a second-class carriage. As the train left the 54 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. station, he leaned forward from his corner, to address a man who had entered the carriage after him, and was his only companion." " Will you tell me what time this train reaches Redley V 9 " You'd better look in Bradshaw" was the polite retort. "Unfortunately," said the Squire, in his courteous way, "I have no Bradshaw with me. No answer, and the train rolled on to its next stopping place, when Mr. Monkton's valet ap- peared at the door of the carriage, and, touch- ing his hat, asked if his master wanted any- thing. " Yes," was the testy reply ; " send James to ask what time this train reaches Redley, and how long it stops there." " The train reaches Redley at 8*10, sir," said the footman, a minute afterwards, " and stays three or four minutes." The Squire settled himself back in his corner, his papers unopened, and the very presence of his companion forgotten. Since the appearance of the servants, though, this companion had felt more inclined to con- THE squire's legacy. 55 tinue the conversation he had nipped so sudden* ]y ; but now the Squire showed no inclination for even a word, Once he roused himself sud- denly, looked at his watch, and then took up a paper and folded it to read. But in a few mo- ments it dropped upon his knee again, and he was once more buried in thought. " We shall be at Redley now in twenty minutes' time," remarked the Squire's com- panion, trying again to break the long hours of silence as they sped on through the silent twi- light landscape. " We've done a good deal to- wards making up for lost time. Our pace is a good five-and-forty miles an hour." The Squire nodded thoughtfully. "Thanks," he said; "but I'm going on to London." " I know this incline well ; and a rather sharp one it is," continued the man, as he took off his hat and put his head through the window. " Hallo ! Are they trying to slacken speed here 1 Is it By Heaven, there's something wrong !" He came over to. the Squire's window, and leaned from it ; savagely, but quite unconscious- ly, pushing back Mr. Monkton as he did so. 56 THE squire's legacy. From this window he could see for some little distance along the double line of rails down the curve, and in one moment he must have seen what awaited them. White as death, he stagger- ed back, and threw himself at full length upon the floor of the carriage. Half bewildered, in this waking from his long meditation, the Squire rose and looked out into the twilight. On the second line of rails, and a little in advance, stood, or seemed to stand, an engine and tender; and through the steam which poured from the funnel in the sudden slackening of speed, could be plainly seen a man upon the step of the engine, waving his arm with that frantic gesture of warning which is always so terribly freighted with despair. But the watching eyes saw more than this. Directly in front of the passenger train as it rolled smoothly on — and only a few yards away, now that the curve in the incline had revealed it — a row of empty waggons lay, overturned across the line along which sped the passenger train. After a few moments, the engine of the London mail was, with one horrible shock, turned aside. THE squire's legacy. 57 Breaking loose, it dashed up the embankment, paused one moment like a rearing horse, and then fell backwards on the carriages. 58 CHAPTER IV. JUST beyond reach of the dust which flies from Richmond bridge on Summer days, a large red house stood on the bank above the river. The ivy clustered round its low windows, and Father Thames, in his brightest mood, kissed its lawn as he went past. The room behind those two long windows in the centre, was called the school-room still, though, of the seven little heads that used to bend above their lessons there, six were lying under the walls of the church behind the house, and the one re- maining was a man's head, grave and thought- ful. But to him, even yet, the old schoolroom was a favourite retreat, as there he could be safe from interruption in his one pet pursuit ; and on that Saturday afternoon he was following it with all his heart and soul, THE squire's legacy. 59 though not alone in the old schoolroom to-day. This pleasant house at Richmond was the home of a shrewd and well-known London solicitor, who, through all his home bereave- ments, had passed his life between his offices in Gray's Inn Square and this old Richmond house. The name upon those office doors had never been altered since two young brothers, starting in life, themselves watched it painted, in proud and happy anticipation of that wealthy harvest which only one was to be left to reap. And clients to whom this double name, "T. & C. Bradford," had become as familiar as the dial on the chapel opposite, had by degrees grown staunch in the belief that the lawyer who was ever alone in the office had been the elder of the brothers. But there was a legend in the Inns of Court that once a client, in an evil spirit of curiosity — for who could need sounder advice than Mr. Bradford was willing to give them ? — had been led into a reference to the second initial on the door, and begged Mr. Bradford "to consult his brother Charles." " Sir," remarked the lawyer, composedly, " / am my brother Charles." 60 THE squire's legacy. And there were schoolfellows of Kenneth Bradford's who asserted that even he did not know to which initial his father laid greater claim, as the letters which he received at school always concluded in the well-balanced terms, " Your loving father, T. & C. Bradford." It was this sole remaining son of Mr. Brad- ford's who sat in the old schoolroom at Rich- mond on that Saturday afternoon, deep in his pet pursuit ; a young man of five-and-twenty, with a stoop in his tall figure, and a great restlessness, as well as thoughtfulness, in his narrow, intellectual face. With his pen in his hand, and a quantity of loose sheets of MS. on the table before him, he was reading aloud to his companion all that he had written since that last holiday afternoon when he had read her the opening of this wonderful tragedy which, as she firmly believed, was to crown his grave, dark head with undying laurels. She sat oppo- site him at the table, her elbows resting on it, and her chin buried in her palms ; a slight girl, dressed in velveteen, with a bunch of snow- drops at her breast, her bright, fair hair hanging in heavy natural curls, one thick lock from each temple knotted lightly behind; a girl with a THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 61 face full of merriment, yet capable of intense tenderness ; a face which, though possessing no positive beauty, was yet winning beyond words in its ever-varying expressions, and the chang- ing light, of^'ply and tag h.er in £ lustrous eyes. So sat Doris Egerton upon that holiday Satur- day, listening while Kenneth read. " Entombed ! with life all warm about her heart. Entombed ! in darkness which no sun can pierce. The weight of night for ever on those eyes Which have been stars to me " "But, Ken," interrupted Doris, her eyes a little wider than usual, " isn't that very jerky language for a king's son ?" " 1 will improve it," said Kenneth, promptly dipping his pen into the ink. " What do you suggest, Doris ?" " Oh ! pass it on and read more," cried Doris, the very impersonation of eager atten- tion. " You can think of improvement after- wards." So Kenneth gravely read on, until another excited interruption burst from his solitary listener. He looked up anxiously to read its cause, and smiled with pleasure to find that she 62 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. had stopped him only to give vent to an ex- clamation of pride and delight. " Ken, that's beautiful ! It is not a bit like real life, of coarse, bat then that oughtn't to be in a tragedy, ought it ?" " There is a real life of tragedy as well as of comedy, dear ; it should be true to that." " Then you must alter the whole play from the beginning," observed Doris, cheerfully. " But you can do that afterwards ; go on now, please." Another scene was read through, and then Doris raised her head from her hands, and shook it gravely. "That won't do, Kenneth; you mustn't let him live. Everybody dies in a tragedy-gene- rally on each other's graves." " They all die here, except Creo," explained Kenneth, anxiously ; " and Hemo does kill him- self on Antigone's grave." " That's right," said Doris, with evident re- lief ; " then it will be a great tragedy. Go on." Another reading, and then it was Kenneth who made the interruption. " Doris, you know this speech of Antigone's when she hears her sentence — you learnt it THE squire's legacy. 63 long ago ; it was one of the first bits I wrote — I wish you would repeat it, and act it just as you think it should be acted." "All right," said Doris, rising promptly. " Sentence me to be buried alive, that I may realise my position !" So Kenneth* pronounced sentence upon Doris, while she listened with her brows drawn, so intently following every word upon his lips that the cry which J>roke from hers, when they were all uttered, made Kenneth start with a sudden shock. The cry broke into a laugh. "Did you think it was reality, KenK" she asked. " Why, I thought that was very tragic, and that you'd be so pleased." " I was startled for the moment," said Ken- neth, sorry now that he had interrupted her ; " you did it too well." u I didn't know that a part could be acted too well," rejoined Doris, quietly. " Ken, I expect I shall be very proud of you when a great burst of applause all over the theatre shows that Antigone has been a triumph, and that its au- thor has won his laurels." "But the applause may mean very little," said Kenneth, thoughtfully, " and it may greet 64 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. my play on its first night, yet leave me quite unsatisfied in my desire for fame. Let me tell you how I dream of my first night, Doris. There is no noise among the people, but the sorrow and the passion I have drawn find echoes in their hearts, and the love and truth touch some answering chord. Ah, Doris, just one sob in the breathless hush ; just one breath of glad relief when the sorrow turns to joy ; just one token that the hearts among the audi- ence answer to the passion on the stage — that I call fame. And I lie awake at night, and wonder when such fame as this will make my life complete." " I can imagine it," said Doris, softly ; " but* Kenneth, I have heard of men of genius who have wasted their lives in the pursuit of such fame as this ; and I think you would be happier perhaps if you could enjoy yourself more in a general sort of way, as I do, and if you were not so clever, and so terribly sensitive." " But, Doris, do you think any fame which my writing could bring would satisfy me unless you shared it?" "And when that triumphant first night is over," remarked Doris, closing her ears to that THE squire's legacy. 65 last speech, " what form will fame take in the future ?" " After that night," said Kenneth, very quiet- ly, " none of my dreams go on." " Listen, Ken. Your chance of fame depends quite as much upon your actors as upon your- self. Don't let there be raving, but, in the height of his passion, let Hemo speak quite low, as if he would not let his passion all be roused — oh, you know what I mean I Now you recite Hemo's last words." " Stop !" she cried, interrupting him present- ly, with a curious look of pain upon her face. Then she threw back her head and smiled. " It was so sad, Ken ; it seemed real, even with- out the dress." " Does it need dress, then, to portray intense and powerful thought? Did not that one subtle action of yours (with the cry) mislead me too ?" " Should not we two," said Doris, her eyes full of laughter, "be brilliant stars upon the British stage, Ken — if you could be my public, and I could be yours V 9 " Doris "—she was kneeling on a chair before the fire (for Kenneth liked a fire even when VOL. I. F 66 THE squire's legacy. the sun was shining and the windows were open), and as he spoke he laid his hand softly on her hair—" no praise from the widest public in the world would content me, unless you were proud and content too." " But your public wouldn't applaud and flat- ter me, Ken. Why should I be pleased about it?" the girl asked, demurely. " Doris," he cried, and he closed his fingers on the hands which she had locked upon the back of the chair on which she knelt, "you know what I mean ; you know that I can bear to think of no future for myself which you do not share." « It's a future a very long way o$ then, is it?" " I am five-and-twenty," he said, in his quiet tones, " and you are eighteen now. Need I wait very'jlong, Doris ? I mean, of course, after I have won myself a name of which you may be proud." "1 don't care about that," returned Doris, her grave eyes looking straight before her into the depths of the fire. " If one loves a person, I think one must love him almost better when the world is not exactly lying at his feet — per- THE squire's legacy. 67 haps even all the better if the world treads him under Us feet." " A natural fancy for a generous and romantic child," said Kenneth, with his grave, slow smile. "But you surely can see the other side as plainly!" > But Doris shook her head ; it was a subject abotft which she understood so little on that Spring afternoon. " Weill and dearly as I love you, Doris, I shall not ask you to take a name which may be blotted with failure, or over which men may smile compassionately, recalling a poor dupe, who was a fancied poet. But," he urged, the warm colour rising for a moment in his sallow •cheeks, " you will promise that, with my success, I may win my wife. Make me the promise, darling ; just think then of the joy for me of that first night of my tragedy. But you can hardly understand it, dear — I think no woman could ; it seems sometimes as if even a man's heart could not hold it." " Perhaps we women have hearts as big as men's, Ken," observed Doris, frankly meeting his dreamy gaze ; "but perhaps we are more given to think of only one thing at a time." f2 68 THE squire's legacy. " Make me the promise, Doris," persisted the young man, earnestly ; " let me have that, as I am losing your dear face and voice." " Shall you never come to see us at Kings* wood, then ?" " I should come to the world's end to see you ; but think how hard 1 shall work with this end in view. Is the promise given, Doris, which 1 may claim on that first night, when I stand on the pinnacle of success ? Doris, darling, are you cold ?" " I suppose so. Just at that moment I shivered, didn't I?" " And the promise is mine ?" he asked. " My little friend and dear companion will be my wife at last ?" " Kenneth, I must live a long time with papa first," she said, her eyes again upon the fire. " We have been separated for seven years. You must not win your laurels too soon." Kenneth knelt upon the rug, and when his face met hers she could see the joy that filled his eyes. " Darling," he said, u I know this is a promise you will never break. When my first tragedy is pronounced a success, I may remind you that you are mine ?" THE squire's legaot. 69 " As well as the laurels," smiled Doris. But she rose rather wearily as she spoke, and drew her hand — though very gently — from Kenneth's. This promise, once given, was very binding and sacred in the girl's eyes ; but then Kenneth's success might be a long way off, and somehow the thought of it all was very vague. So it happened that she turned with a sigh of un- conscious relief when the door was opened, and a servant announced " Mr. Monkton." " Excuse me for this interruption, Bradford," said Scot Monkton, as Kenneth came forward and took his offered hand ; " but it was your father I came to see. I suppose he is so seldom sought at home here, that your servant could only imagine I meant you. I" — Scot was going to say he was afraid he had intruded, but the speech, at best, is but an ill-chosen one, and Scot had the tact to correct it in time — " I was told at the office that Mr. Bradford was at home to-day-an unusual thing for him." " Very," smiled Kenneth ; " he was not well enough to go to town this morning, having a touch of gout ; but I'm sure he will see you. Doris," he added, taking her hand as she stood on the rug, her face turned from them, " will 70 THE SQUTRE'S LEGACY. you let me introduce Mr. Monkton ? Miss Egerton, Mr. Monkton." A demure as well as graceful curtsey was Doris's, yet she could, by a strategic movement essentially feminine, take note exactly how Mr. Monkton performed his part. The girl's curi- osity was natural, for this was the Mr. Monkton on whose estate she was going to live, and whose name stared at her from so many of the boxes in Mr. Bradford's offices when she went there with her aunt Joan ; the Mr. Monkton whom Kenneth had sometimes pointed out to her, as he drove or rode past them when they walked together, on Summer afternoons under the trees in Hyde Park. But Scot, highly satisfactory as his deferential bow had been to his critical little vis-a-vis, seemed by no means inclined to stand on any lofty, imaginary pedestal. In his genial way — ever so courteous, though its ease might have been mistaken, as Monsieur Sourdet had mis- taken it a few days ago, for inherent idleness — he fell coolly and comfortably into conversation, equally with Kenneth, whom, as the son of his father's solicitor, he had always known, and with the sunny-haired girl with the shy, bright eyes and the merry, mobile lips. THE SQUIRE'S LEGACT. 71 " My father will be in London to-night," said Scot, addressing Kenneth, "and, as I know he wishes to see Mr. Bradford, I thought perhaps I might persuade him to come back and dine with us." "I will ask him," said Kenneth, but, as he moved to the door, Scot coolly detained him. "No; please say nothing to him. I would not think of it, as he has his old enemy with him. What are those valuable sheets, Brad- ford ? Another drama ?" " A tragedy this time," said Doris, with a proud glance at Kenneth, as she gathered the loose pages together with a pretty air of pro- prietorship ; " a beautiful tragedy, Mr. Monkton, called Antigone" " Another !" echoed Scot, his eyes following the girl's deft fingers. " What has become of all the rest, Bradford ? Are they accepted ?" The colour mounted hotly into Kenneth's face. " No," he said, honestly ; " I have never had one accepted yet." " You see, when once he gets a play accepted, Mr. Monkton," said Doris, brightly, " and people 72 THE squire's legacy. see that he is a genius, all those rejected manu- scripts will become valuable in a moment." " I see that you understand it thoroughly," said Scot, looking laughingly into her eyes ; " but remember how his father's heart is set on his devoting himself to the law. I suppose this occupation tempts you on, Bradford ?" "Yes. Often I ask myself if it be worth while," said Kenneth, laying his hand for a moment on his forehead; "and then the old passion masters me, and I must go on. Possibly it will lead to poverty — don't they say poverty is the inevitable fate of literary men ? — still I cannot turn aside." "It's a glorious thing to be a poet, Mr. Monkton, isn't it?" asked Doris, turning to question him in pretty earnestness. "It is a glorious thing, too," replied Scot, simply, " to follow the straight and unromantic line of duty." Doris quietly turned again to her work of collecting the sheets of manuscript, but Kenneth answered that Mr. Monkton of course could not understand a man's being engrossed by one pursuit. " Yet, were I myself left penniless to-morrow," THB squire's legacy. 73 said Scot, with a laugh, " I could only earn a sixpence by appealing to the benevolent in the streets, in a napless hat and a shining swallow- tail, performing * The Vagabond ' on my cornet." In the midst of Doris's merry laugh, the school-room door was opened to admit a bright- looking old lady, followed closely by a servant with a tea-tray. This old lady was Mr. Brad- ford's cousin, as well as cousin to Doris's father, but by both Kenneth and Doris she was invari- ably called " Aunt Joan." It was in her charge that Colonel Egerton had left his little girl, and it was from her he would claim her in a few weeks' time, with no fear that the education he had provided for his daughter would be vain or superficial. How "Aunt Joan" had fulfilled her trust could only be told as the years went on ; but, whenever she mused on the time when she should give the child back to her father, there was a placid trust within her heart, as if she felt no fear. " I have sat so long in my cousin's room," she said, as she shook hands with Scot Monkton, whom she had met before, " that I am glad to have a little change ; so I have ordered the tea to be brought here. Ah ! Kenneth," she added, 74 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. as her eyes fell on the loose sheets in Doris's hands,* " at your old hobby ! Just because a splendid profession is ready to your hand, you must choose something else to put your hand to I And you so thoroughly imbue Doris with your romantic notions, that I declare I shall leave off bringing her here on her holidays." " No," said Kenneth, quietly ; " they will so soon be over." "And when they are, I dare say you will settle down into as sensible a lawyer as your father is* A man should always be true to his intended profession." "When Johnson and Garrick first came to London to start in the world, Miss Bradford," said Scot, rather intently watching Doris as she put the manuscript into Kenneth's hand with a smile of bright encouragement, "I believe it was Garrick's intention, and the burly Doctor's great ambition, to go in for law ; yet fate led them otherwise. And could we more easily have spared our great tragedian and our literary lion than two extra lawyers ?" " Don't excuse him, please, Mr. Monkton," said Miss Bradford, trying to put a little sternness into her kind grey eyes. "I could excuse THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 75 him if he were dull of comprehension in any way. " Then cheer up, Miss Bradford, for he is not a genius," put in Scot, as he slowly took his tea from Doris, with a smile into her eyes. " Genius is always dull of comprehension save in one particular strong point. Do you remember how Sheridan's mother said he was the dullest and most hopeless of all her children?" "And Goldsmith never wrote till he was thirty, did he ?" added Doris, still standing be- side Scot, with a strange, soothing quietness in her very proximity, of which he was conscious even then. "Miss Egerton, shall you and I make an agreement to remind Kenneth, when he reaches the pinnacle of fame, that we foresaw it ? " " And be the first to take his hand in con- gratulation," added Doris, nodding her bright head at Kenneth. They were but light and careless words of kind encouragement, yet neither of those who uttered them could recall them, in the after-time, without a pang of keenest sorrow. " It was not until Scot Monkton had been to 76 THE squire's legacy. Mr. Bradford's room, and had returned to take leave of the ladies, that Doris suddenly began to question him about the home to which, in a few weeks' time, her father was to take her. " It is close to you, Mr. Monkton, is it not ?" "Not very close," returned Scot, delaying his departure with no apparent unwillingness. " I wish it were nearer. It is on the very outskirts of the park." "Is it nice! What is it like?" questioned Doris, with the childlike eagerness which alter- nated, in a puzzling manner, with her fits of womanly gravity. " It is awfully solitary, and grim, and cold, and gloomy — at present." " But," persisted Doris, defying the blush which made her so angry with herself, "I mean, what will it be like when we — when it is furnished?" "What will it be like when you are there, you say ?" echoed Scot, in his lowest, laziest tones, while he pretended to be recalling a mental picture. " Not solitary — nor grim — nor cold — nor gloomy. Can you picture the very opposite ?" "Is it? Oh, I'm so glad!" said Doris, THE squire's legacy. 77 simply. "And Kingswood? But I know all about Kingswood," she added, seeing even in that moment the great love he bore his home. a I know how beautiful that is. Who else will live near us, Mr. Monkton ?" " At Comely Place, very near to you, I hope you will have a friend in Miss Chamberlain." "She!" exclaimed Doris, with a sudden passion in her voice and eyes. "She shall never be my friend. I am very sorry she will live near to us," " Still nearer to your house," continued Scot, as the swift glance of anger died out of his eyes, "there is another house, not occupied now, but it may be some day ; a really grim and desolate place ; an old farmhouse full of weird sounds and real and bond fide ghosts, with an endless catalogue of legends attached to it. In one fearful spot near it " " Oh, stop !" cried Doris, half in real distress* and half in doubt. "You are laughing at me, Mr. Monkton. What is this ugly farm called ?" " The Black Birches. It is not ugly." "Who owns it?" "I do. It is the only spot in the world which belongs to me." 78 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. " But Kingswood ?" " Is my father's, Miss Egerton," put in Soot, quietly. ""The Black Birches, strange to say, was left to me when I was a little lad, by an old fellow who thought it ought to form part of the Kingswood estate, but in whose family it had been for centuries. I have generally had tenants there, but at present it is vacant." Mr. Monkton's tandem had been standing for some time upon the gravel sweep, and now he suddenly became aware of the fact, and gave his hand to Miss Bradford and to Doris. "Then, in a few weeks' time," he said, ad- dressing both, " I may have the pleasure of greeting you in the Kingswood Dower House V 9 "Only Doris, I think," replied Miss Joan, with a caressing touch upon the girl's shoulder. " Father and daughter will be sufficient to each other ; but of course I shall go to see them very often." " Thank you, Aunt Joan ; I know you under- stand best." The words sounded so childlike, in their utter reliance on the elder lady's judgment, that Scot caught himself wondering how the girl, brought up under such a sheltering wing, would bear THE squire's legacy. 79 the transplanting into a large house, the care of which would rest upon her young head. "I shall see," he thought to himself. And then he said good-bye, and went. "Doris, are you tired?" Kenneth had re- turned to the schoolroom after Mr. Monkton's departure, and found her alone, standing at the window, her fingers trifling gently with the snowdrops in her dress, and her eyss for off upon the flowing river. " Are you tired, dear ?" " Tired !" she echoed^ and in one moment her eyes had their old brilliance. "W&ttt could have tired met" " Antigone" he answered, whuixsdt sadly, " and my long, prosy dreams*" " Dear Ken," she cried, her face all foil of bright encouragement, " Antigone never tires me ; nor do you— ever. How could you 'think it — you, my teacher in everything thatf-s good and patient and trustful, and my — my one true old friend and companion ? Oh, Kenneth, never say that again, please.". The eager impetuosity was so natural to Doris that it touched no unsuspected note of doubt in Kenneth's mind. " Now Aunt Joan will be ready," she said, turning from the window. 80 THE squire's legacy. " Don't shorten the evening, Doris," he plead- ed, gently detaining her. " We have so few more happy Saturdays to spend together. But I will not mind," he went on, more cheerfully ; " each Saturday will bring us nearer to our marriage, won't it, dear ?" " We are both so busy just now," said Doris, with a shake of her head, while the brightness of her voice contrasted strangely with his an- xious and even diffident tones, " that we have really no time to think of marriage. How oddly the word sounded from you, Kenneth !" " No wonder," said Kenneth, quietly. " It is the end for which I work." " A. mistake," put in the girl, her eyes and lips both laughing. " ' She sighed for love, and he for glory.' Don't reverse the ancient order." "Doris," he said, in anxious earnestness, " I'm sure you do not misunderstand my love for my art. Overmastering as it is, you know that it is a feeling apart from my love for you —don't you ?" "Yes," she said; but her answer was very low, for her heart was chilled by a vague fear, which she was trying to combat. " And you feel that, in following this pursuit. THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 81 I am led on by something which — I think — must be power ?" " Yes." " Thank you, Doris." he said, in a tone of real relief. " Even when I am sitting in my father's office, and trying hard to fit myself into the life he wishes for me, this power drags me beyond the boundaries of law-books, into that poet- world from which I believe I draw my very life* breath." " Hush, Kenneth, please !" said Doris, gently. " Let us go. That — that simple line of duty which Mr. Monkton spoke of, is sometimes so hard to see." " I never see it," rejoined Kenneth, drawing his hand slowly across his forehead, as he had a habit of doing. "All before me is chaos, except that always one bright spot shines in the distance. You understand, my darling ?" " Yes." VOL. I. G 82 CHAPTER V. ALONG that pleasant road which, from the western suburbs, runs due east to London, Scot Monkton's tandem rolled swiftly; the horses' heads in a line, the eyes of their driver intent and careful, while yet his thoughts were laggard, and did not hurry with him from the ivy-covered house at Bichmond. Through Turnham Green, then down the long and narrow street at Hammersmith, where the crowd — pushing and noisy, and engrossed in its Saturday purchases — never turned their heads to look after him. On again, along the wide west road, through Kensington to Prince's Gate, joining then the world of lavish wealth and idle fashion ; the beautiful and brilliant world, scarcely out of sight of that Hammer- smith street where the crowd jostled too, but looked less upon each other's faces than upon THE squire's legacy. 83 the few shillings that were left them for the week's food and lodging, and where, when a woman's eyes did seek one face among the crowd, it was in fear and pain, and in the know- ledge that, however debased and disfigured it might be, she must not shrink from it — Ah, never sJie> or who in all the world would see a man's soul beneath this brute ferocity or help- lessness f On through this crowded thoroughfare, and now hundreds of eyes followed Scot's firm, easy figure, and women's lips broke into smiles as he came up ; though in no one instance did he give more than a passing greeting as he drove steadily on. Twice he drove up the beaten track, turning at the Marble Arch ; then daintily and lightly the tandem ran out into Piccadilly, and Scot Monkton, as he drew up at his club, congratulated himself coolly on having made up for lost time. " He always wants to know who's in town," Scot meditated, his father being understood by the " he," " and now I shall have a fair idea ; yet I shall be in good time too." "Monkton! Capital! I didn't know you were in town." 84 THE squire's legacy. *' Join us to-night, Monkton ; you are jast the man we want." " That's right, Monkton ; it's jolly to see you. We began to think you were not coming this month, and we miss you awfully, old fellow !" Heartily returning the handshakes, and coolly parrying the flattering greetings, Scot stood among the group, not the handsomest nor the tallest, but, by virtue of something — who could tell yet what was that latent power below the cordial words and laughing glances? — distin- guished among them all. " Impossible," he returned, composedly, to all their invitations or proposals ; " I must stay at home to-night." " Bat surely you'll be at the Opera ?" " No, nowhere to-night, so leave off tempting me. How many of you toill breakfast with us to-morrow at Grosvenor Place? We are but bachelors, remember." They stood together for nearly an hour, a handsome, merry group, in the large bow window, their words and laughter prompt and gay. And when at last Scot took his thorough- breds in hand again, one of the young men, looking quizzically after him, said he had not THE squire's legacy. 85 thought that another season would have found Monkton still debonair and heart-whole. "He won't succumb in a hurry," remarked the Club cynic ; " he's a plucky, pleasant fel- low, but he's most emphatically a vertebrate animal, I can tell you " — a speech of which his listeners understood the half only. When he reached home Scot found a telegram awaiting him, and he opened it with a smile, because the Squire, in his genial, restless way had such a mania for telegraphing to his son when they were apart. Scot's smile broke into a laugh when he read the message. 44 4 40 and the mail not in Due at 4 Con- found it Dorit send to meet me These laggard trains are never to be relied on " " Then he may be an hour late," thought Scot, as he threw the paper into the grate ; " I must have the dinner kept back, though I don't suppose that was the Squire's motive in his message." But the dinner, even though put back, was kept waiting minute after minute. " It is after ten, sir ; will you wait longer ?" " Certainly." Scot, in his evening dress, had paced the lighted rooms, and dipped into the 86 THE squire's legacy. magazines, and now, in an unused drawing- room, where the light necessary for him only revealed the shrouded furniture, he sat cheer- fully at the open piano, improvising an accom- paniment to Di Pescatore, as he whistled the air with the greatest correctness and purity. " Cer- tainly, wait ; and light up the house as much as you can." "Shall I prepare these apartments then, sir " Oh I nonsense, we don't want these rooms," said Scot, experimentalizing upon a new chord ; " but light up all the others ; and you may as well send some one to the station, to see if the train is in. Tell Artaud to take a hansom, and go himself as quickly as he can." " I know," he smiled to himself, as the butler closed the door upon him in the dim room, " that the Squire's idea will be to write to the Times of this delay." " Perhaps, sir," said Artaud, entering a few minutes afterwards, " this second telegram will prevent the necessity of my going. It has just arrived." Scot whistled on to the end of the phrase, while he raised his hands from the keys and took THE squire's legacy. 87 the envelope. What could his father have found to telegraph about, between Western Junction and London? Still whistling, more softly now, he rose from his seat and stood under the gas. Many a time afterwards Artaud recalled that picture, as, when the ship is tossing out at sea, one recalls the last peaceful glimpse of the s shore at home. " Take it. English as it is, you will see the truth in it as plainly as I do. Call me a cab, while I change these " That was all Scot said, as he passed the ugly piece of paper into his servant's hand ; but his voice was husky, and when it so suddenly failed, his gaze grew vague and far off — utterly beyond his control, in the great effort he made to hide his strong emotion. And, while his breath quickened as if in shame at being power- less to finish his calm sentence, the fingers of his right hand fumbled nervously with his tie, as if he thought the swelling of his heart could be relieved by loosening that. The message was so short that Artaud, though he did not pause upon his way, had read it over many times when he reached the hall, and sent to summon a hansom. It was simply 88 the squire's legacy. a few words from the Squire's valet, telling that there had been a terrific accident upon the line, eight miles from Redley, and that the company were sending down a special train at once, but — with more tragic meaning than any words could have conveyed — leaving his master's name unwritten. Before the cab had stopped at the door, Scot was down in the hall, and, while apparently quite unconscious of putting on the overcoat Artaud held for him, he coolly and intelligibly left his orders with the men, who wondered at the change which these few minutes had made in the face which they had always seen so free from care. From his own door, Scot drove first to the house of a famous physician, who was an old friend of his father's, and who, when Scot had told his story in few words, took the unoccu- pied seat beside him, and sat in a kind and sym- pathetic silence, while the horse sped on at its utmost speed. The special train — a long line of first-class carriages, the purpose of which Dr. Boyd understood only too well, though Scot suspect- ed nothing of it — was ready to start when they THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY". 89 reached the London terminus, and, in a hush which, strange as it was in that place, Scot did not notice, they rushed out into the night, leaving a crowd of pitying, anxious faces upon the platform. « Monkton," said the old physician, speaking only just this once, through all that swift, silent journey, and leaning forward, as he did so, to lay his hand on the young man's shoulder, "I'm a poor hand at teaching patience, and this is an awful time for the lesson ; but just try to say, ' God's will be done.' If you only move your lips to say the words mechanically, the thought will come the easier afterwards." " A bat !" said Scot, looking from the carriage window out into the darkness. " I thought I heard him ; one cannot mistake their short, quick cry. Did you ever notice it ?" The physician did not answer. Even his skill sought in vain a palliative for this new mask of self-control, for which he had been unprepared in Scot Monkton. " There's an old farm near Kingswood," continued Scot, turning his eyes slowly back from the window — "the Black Birches, they call it, — and I never saw anything like the way 90 THE squire's legacy. the bats love it ; I always noticed it, even as a child— always. You don't know the Black Birches ? I must show you over the grim old spot some day, if you will let me." And this was all they said to each other during that swift journey through the dark- ness ; and when the train stopped at last, for the first as well as the last time, Scot was first of all the passengers to alight. They had sped through Bedley station and stopped upon the line, in a scene of havoc and torture which must have made the atmosphere awful even in dense darkness, but which now, in the lurid glare shed by the pile of burning wood fed from the broken carriages, was terrible beyond description. Standing apart for a few moments on the line, the strong light on his bare head, and his hand upon his burning brow, Scot looked down upon the terrible devastation, and a strong shiver seized him when the red pools among the broken fragments told him their own horrible tale. But it was only for a few moments that Scot stood so— stunned in this first coming face to face with an agony which was so great and deep, and yet of which the whole immensity I THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 91 was his. His fellow-passengers, shrieking and sobbing, and piteously calling names to which no answers came, rushed past him in their fearful search. A group of men near him — gentlemen and labouring men, working to- gether quickly and silently with one brave aim, and with a strength and power that were equal in this great need-j-lifted the heavy masses of wood and iron piled in one spot. Through the sweeping of the flame, and the shriller cries, Scot heard their words, and started forward, his brain reeling, and a Are coursing through his veins, but his arms the strongest there, and sure and true in all his frantic haste. " Heaven pity her !" For a few seconds the men stood back ; their work was finished, and, in the light of the flame above them, there lay a crushed and mangled form, and a face upturned to the firelit sky which even a mother's eyes could not have recognised. Scot, bent above it, his stained hands shading his searching eyes, but suddenly he rose upright with a swift excitement which, in a moment, gave him his old vigour. 92 THE squire's legacy. * "Mr. Monkton — here, sir; it was I who called you." Never could Scot afterwards realise the relief of that moment, in which he recognised the voice of his father's servant, because it lasted but a moment, and the after-misery followed so soon. Following the man's lead, and with Doctor Boyd beside him, Scot crossed the line, among the engrossed and hurrying figures. Close beside them, propped on coats and rugs against the bank, an old man, too near death to bear removal, was making his will in proper legal form — for it seemed that help in every case was near and prompt to-night. Past them slowly moved a little procession, bearing one of those who were to be taken on in the waiting train, provided now with beds and blankets ; while a group of hospital nurses, with a matron at their head, silently and deftly prepared the wounded for their journey. But, when Scot had passed the broken car- riages, treading with difficulty, and was walk- ing on under the embankment to the roadside station on the top of the incline, in spite of his hurrying steps he heard all that was said beside THE squire's legacy. 93 him, when the old physician had inquired into the cause of this great accident. Only after- wards did he know that he had heard and under- stood every word. At the time he thought he was counting the steps that lay between them and the little building in front of them, lighted more weirdly by the blaze of the huge fire than by the lamps which they saw moving restlessly about it. At the time he was wondering whence had sprung so suddenly, in this great need, the gentle, brave physicians whom he saw at work ; the earnest ministers who knelt be- side the dying, and, while whispering the sweet familiar promises, did not forget to ease, by kindly deeds, this one quick step into the life to come ; and the directors who, with their prompt, efficient staff, relieved the terrified as well as the injured, and aided the sorrowing mourners in their bitter search. Afterwards he could tell how he had heard that the axle of one of the waggons of a goods train, bound in the opposite direction to the London mail, had broken, and that this had separated some of the waggons from the train, and thrown them on the up-line, just one minute before the mail was to have pass- ed ; that the engine-driver of the goods train — 94 THE squire's legacy. his engine and tender detached, hut still upon its own line — had made wild efforts to stop the passing train, but, as he had only that one minute of time, and the curve in the line had concealed the danger until half that time was spent, these efforts had of course been fruitless. There was not a shade of either moral or legal responsibility for the dreadful consequences, as the crack in the axle had been concealed by the wheel, and never could have been discovered without taking that off; while the wheels had been examined at every station in which the train had stopped. All this Scot knew after- wards that he had heard, while with his com- panions he walked and ran between the high embankments, thinking that he was aware of nothing beyond the scene around him. Almost more horrible still was that scene when he reached the little station, and passed the guarded door behind which the dead lay waiting to be claimed. "Not here, Monkton. Thank Heaven, not here !" Doctor Boyd had seen the awful look upon Scot's face as he paused beside the door, and he hastened forward, and drew his arm within his. THE squire's legacy. 95 A few minutes afterwards they reached the station-master's private dwelling-rooms, and passing through the disordered kitchen, entered the little sitting-room beyond. Small as it was, the candle burning in one corner did but feebly light it, and so it was natural, perhaps, that in the first few moments Scot should not recognize his father's face. But, when he knelt beside the mattress on the floor, and tried to smile into the feverish eyes which, from the moment of his entrance, had fastened themselves upon his face with one eager wordless question burning in their depths (as if the life which had throbbed this morn- ing in every vein had left the strong form weak and helpless now, and had gathered all its strength and vigour there), a tide of dull despair swept over him, which showed him that, through all his horrible journey, hope had been with him — until now, A young surgeon, who stood mixing some medicine beside the candle at the little table, had turned to give a warning glance at Scot ; but Doctor Boyd intercepted the glance, and answered, in a whisper — "Father and son — an only child and only parent." 96 THE squire's legacy. Then, standing apart a little, the two medical men consulted together in low tones, after which Doctor Boyd took up his right position beside his dying friend, and, with intense and quiet thoughtfulness, brought his great skill to bear upon the case. But the wide experience of forty years could show him no steps to take, which the young surgeon had not taken before ; and the skill of both was as useless in that room of death as was the cordial which the nurse, stepping so softly, held to the fevered lips. Not one word had Mr. Monkton attempted to utter since they had brought him into this room ; yet now, with one spasmodic effort, his son's name passed his lips. " Will you," said Scot, looking sadly up into the watching faces, as he closed his fingers gently on his father's helpless right hand, as if to show him that he understood that ardent gaze which said so much, yet told so little, "leave us for a few moments ? My father has something to say to me alone." The young surgeon looked anxious and troubled, but Doctor Boyd, signing to the nurse and valet to follow, led the way from the room. " Pardon me," he said, addressing the surgeon THE squire's legacy. 97 when they had entered the kitchen — just as the manager of the line, summoned here direct from his box at Drury Lane, came in to them with a little unconscious burden in his arms, his dress boots covered with the torn wet soil, and his white tie stained with one heavy spot of red — " but I am an old friend of Mr. Monkton's, and, unfortunately, we must both acknowledge that no attempt at speech can make his danger greater than it is at this moment, while it may make the parting a little less bitter for his son. See how sadly you are needed here — yes, I thought so, both the little arms are broken." But, for all his thoughtful words, Doctor Boyd could not remain away from his friends, and, before five minutes had passed, he open- ed the door of the inner room and looked in. As he did so, Scot rose from his knees, and beckoned to him. " Wait here — alone, please," he said, and the old physician could hardly recognise the low, hoarse voice ; " I will come back quickly." " Going ?" was the astonished query. " You going ?" But Scot only looked down into his fa- ther's face with one steadfast glance of utter .VOL. I. H 98 THE squire's legacy. confidence, and went from the silent room. Leaving the station-master's house, he passed along the platform until he reached the guard- ed door of the waiting-room — so truly and so pitifully a waiting-room this night, while the dead lay waiting there for the tears and prayers and kisses of their kindred. Slowly and reverentially, with head uncover- ed, Scot moved from one to another of the prostrate forms, and, standing for a little time above each one, he looked down very sadly, as well as searchingly, into the still face from which the light was shaded. Some lay unno- ticed, while on other motionless faces rained a shower of bitter tears and passionate kisses. But not among these, Scot soon knew, was the form his father had bidden him seek among the dead; and, feeling thankful for this, he passed softly from the silent room. The line had been cleared now, but still the station was crowded, not only with suffering life and silent death, but with mourners, watch- ing sadly, and with strangers who, with prompt and tender help, acted surely no stranger's part just then. Still with his head uncovered and his face full THE squire's legacy. 99 of sadness — the handsome face which only a few hours before had looked up from the merry whistling, to meet the message which had brought him here, and had risen like a wide, impenetrable cloud before him, to throw that happy time back into a far-away past, many, many years ago, ah, too many to count while his head was aching so, and this dim night air was heavy with coming misery to so many ! — Scot went back. His father's head was raised when he re-enter- ed the station-master's little sitting-room ; and in Doctor Boyd's expression, as he sat support- ing the pillows, Scot read what he understood only too well. " Hush ! " whispered the physician below his breath, as Scot knelt beside his father, his eyes fixed yearningly upon the dying face. " He is scarcely conscious. He has been exerting himself terribly in your absence ; yet how could I deny him what he wanted? A few minutes longer we might have kept him with us ; but every minute is so fraught with suffering and agony that He has been waiting for you," Doctor Boyd continued, abruptly breaking off in his first speech, " in a very agony of expectation. h2 100 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. Do you bring him now tidings that will please or pain him ? He has written some words to yon upon that paper in his hand — very few and unconnected, I know — but he would do it. I — I dared not stay him." The old physician spoke with tears in his eyes ; but Scot's were dry and burning with fever, almost like those dying ones into which he gazed. "He wrote it brokenly, the strength of his left hand failing after every word. But the message was for your eyes alone, and I had no right to take the pencil from him. He had the candle placed close be- side him there ; and I feel sure that he waits for the answer you bring him, before be burns that paper — burns it with his own weak hand before another has touched it. Look — he sees you now." The low whiaper died away, and the phyeician turned his head aside, for that last parting between father and son was not for his eyes, be knew. " No, father," said Scot, very softly, when he read the unuttered question ; " not there — not among the dead. No, father," he repeated, fancy- ing that this answer would bring the dawning of relief upon his father's face, and too deeply THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 101 in sorrow himself to have room for wondering for whom his father could be so anxious. But, though a change dawned indeed upon the face he watched, it was a far different one from that which he had longed to see. With one moment's flash of power, Mr. Monkton raised his left hand, which had been holding the crushed paper so near the candle, and placed what he had written between Scot's fin- gers ; then, with another spasm of pain, such as had crossed his face on his son's first entrance to him, one word fell tremblingly from his lips. " Read !" " I — I am — my eyes, I think — are blind to- night," said Scot, holding the paper tightly within his hand ; " but every word that is written here shall be sacred to me, father, through — my life." A smile, which lived for ever in Scot's memory, lingered for one moment on the suffer- ing lips ; and then, softly and almost without pain, the end came. 102 CHAPTER VI. AT a small writing-table near the door in hi* father's office, Kenneth Bradford sat busily employed ; but whether hands and thoughts worked in unison, and whether more engrossed by drafts or dreams, even his father could not judge, though, from his own table between the fire and the window, the old man was scru- tinizing him with a good deal of shrewdness — kindly, half-amused shrewdness. The lad would make a lawyer some day even yet, in spite of his absurd attacks of literary fever and legal coma. Never would he be such an adept in jurisprudence as his father — with a sigh Mr. Bradford acknowledged that fact humbly to himself— but still he would be a respectable and trustworthy member of the firm, exhibiting now and then a flash of unex- pected foresight, and laying bare, in the light THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 103 of a strong and delicate intellect, some intricate corner in the winding passages of law. The daylight fell foil and clear upon the countless documents lying on Mr. Bradford's ?writing-table, but it was subdued at the farther end of the room, where Kenneth sat ; and down upon his stooping head fell a ray of purple from the small stained window above him. Some- times, with a certain dry pleasantry which be- longed to him, Mr. Bradford would point out to idle or inquisitive clients the two incongru- ous pieces of adornment which his office con- tained — this coloured window, and an old painting of Lemens's, of a gaunt, black-haired gentleman on horseback — of course on horse- back — and known at a glance to represent England's Orange king. Saying nothing of their rare artistic value (which he was not supposed to appreciate), or of their marketable value (which he was supposed to appreciate), he touched only upon their uselessness in the business offices of T. & C. Bradford. But once or twice, when a virtuoso had taken the words in earnest, and, coveting the old works of art, had offered for them any sum the old lawyer would name, his face had as sud- 104 THE squire's legacy. denly grown grim as it did when once Squire Monkton of Kingswood told him, laughingly, he might add a third to the articles which, valuable though they were, were evidently in- congruous in the office — his son. " Kenneth P There was no answer. All the better, while the quill moved on so steadily. Mr. Bradford collected the loose papers on his desk, and docketed them, unhooked his eyeglasses from his long straight nose, and then pushed back his chair ; but it moved on castors, and so made no sound on the thick Turkey carpet. " Kenneth P This time the young man's head was raised in response ; but his thoughts had farther to travel homewards than his eyes, and so had scarcely answered to the summons yet. "Active, to engross; passive, to be engross- ed. The two voices are having a duet in your case, Kenneth. Look out, lad, or that passive voice will be a perfect Loreley's. And then — why, then shut up the office P Evidently reminded by the practical sugges- tion thrown out in the last four words, Mr. Bradford rose from his chair, glanced at his THE squire's legacy. 105 watch, and then touched a little hand-bell that stood upon the table. "Finished that, have you, Kenneth?" he asked, as he walked towards the corner of the office where his hat and gloves always lay when they were not in use. "Then make haste off; I have only half an hour to stay, and, as you have to go round to the Tem- ple before going to Gordon Square, you'd better start ; the walk will do you more good than the drive with me later on. I shall see you there presently." " You have quite decided that I am not to go down to Kingswood with you to-night, sir ?" Never any where but in the office did Kenneth use this title of respect in addressing his father, but there it came so naturally that he was him- self hardly conscious that he used it. " Quite decided. You were only asked to attend the funeral, while I Reynolds, I rang because, if you have anything you want to ask me about to-morrow, you must ask me now. Don't wait, Kenneth. You are going to take Doris to the Opera, I hear. Well, tell them I won't be late. What's that you say, Rey- nolds?" 106 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. " A gentleman, sir. He gave lis no name, bnt he particularly wishes to see yon, and will not detain you many minutes, he says." " I must see him, I suppose/' grumbled Mr. Bradford, setting down his hat conspicuously, as if preparing a hint for his visitor. "I will endeavour not to detain you two minutes," said the visitor, entering a few seconds afterwards, with a bow and a smile. " I can well imagine how valuable Mr. Bradford's time is ; and, if he spares me only a fraction, I shall be grateful, and not encroach." The lawyer bowed coldly. He had two strong English prejudices — he was slow to trust in either foreigners or flatterers ; and that this man was both, he detected simultaneously by his eyes and ears. " Allow me to hand you my card," the visitor said, without adding a word of explanation as to why he had refused to send it in. Mr. Bradford raised it a little, and read the name without his glasses — " Monsieur Philippe Sourdet." " If I can assist you, Monsieur Sourdet," he said, placing the card upon the table, " I am at your service for twenty minutes." THE squire's legacy. 107 " I would by no means intrude so long," re- turned Monsieur Sourdet, drawing his gloves slowly between his fingers, and speaking with a smile ever coming and going, and an observant restlessness in his black eyes. "I introduce myself to you to-day, Mr. Bradford, as to the trusted solicitor of the late lamented Squire of Kingswood." " As well as of the present Squire," added Mr. Bradford, quietly. " Undoubtedly." Monsieur Sourdet inclined his head slowly as he uttered the assent, and then his heavy lips closed for a moment. " To-morrow the remains of the late lament- ed " " To-morrow — yes," put in the lawyer, in his companion's pause. "Pompous obsequies, no doubt. It is not every day that such a house as Kingswood loses its head." "Fortunately not," returned Mr. Bradford, curtly; and then he waited for his visitor to introduce the subject of his call. " My first thought, when I heard of the sad event, was one of gratitude that he had left so few to regret his loss." 108 THE squire's legacy. " The fact, as a matter of gratitude, never struck me," put in the lawyer, composedly. " Did it not V As I say, it was one of my first thoughts. Your august and stately Eng- lish funerals are lengthened miseries, I should say, to sorrowing survivors; and so I hope there will be very few witnesses of the gloomy pageant." A pause ensued, which Mr. Bradford showed no anxiety to fill. "Therefore I trust," continued Monsieur Sourdet, seeing that he must depend upon himself, and feeling that twenty minutes would not allow any waste, " that Mr. Monkton has left but few relatives to follow his remains." " No relative at all will follow him," observed Mr. Bradford, fully and rather searchingly meeting his visitor's gaze, "save his own son ; but T f ve known dead men — rich men — wept over by half a hundred relatives, whose sum ot sorrow altogether would not make his sum." "I can quite readily credit it," returned Philippe Sourdet, suavely; "but still one regrets he should be alone in his mourning. Surely " the Frenchman's eyebrows were slowly and sympathetically raised as he asked his THE squire's legacy. 109 question — " Mr. Stanley Monkton will be pre- sent to-morrow, to pay his relative a last respect ?" " The last would be the first in that case," said Mr. Bradford, tersely. " Stanley Monkton has shown respect to no one all his life." A quick nod of the Frenchman's head was the reception of this remark ; but, vaguely and almost uncomfortably, Mr. Bradford felt that the gesture showed a sense of relief. " Then, would not the opposite motive bring him, sir ? One life less now stands between him and the fortune and the estate of the elder branch; and such a knowledge might well bring him over to have a look at the old place." "Nevertheless, it does not bring him," ob- served Mr. Bradford, gravely. " He is not to be at Kingswood to-morrow ." " Indeed !" The curt remark was essentially English, yet from none but a Frenchman could have pro- ceeded the slight, expressive gesture which ac- companied it, and of which Mr. Bradford took keen note, while he was, at the same time, fully aware that underlying the sham astonish- ment was a sensation of relief. 110 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. " I fear," he said, pointedly, " I am detaining you with idle conversation. May I ask you how you need my advice ?" " Not advice, exactly," replied Monsieur Sourdet, drawing his fingers still slowly over his gloves, in a way which sorely worried the lawyer ; " I wish to beg permission to follow to- morrow in the procession which thus would show its respect to the departed, and — of course, a natural sequence — its good-will to the survivor." Mr. Bradford rose from his seat. "If that is all," he said, partly relieved to feel the interview need not be lengthened, and partly resenting the unnecessary loss of his time, "you need not have troubled yourself to come to me. Anyone who wishes to show the respect you speak of will be at liberty to make one at the mournful ceremony." Monsieur Sourdet, taking the lawyer's hint, rose slowly to his feet ; but the fingers of his right hand still fondly stroked his glove, and his hat remained upon the table. " As Mr. Monkton's legal adviser," he said, presently, his heavy lips a little dry and hard, THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. Ill " you will, of course, sir, be the one to read the late Squire's will ?" Mr. Bradford bowed his head. This stranger's impertinence called for no further reply. "But," resumed Monsieur Sourdet, with a sudden air of candid humility, " I fear I could not plead for the privilege of hearing that." " I think, sir," returned Mr. Bradford, chilling- ly* " if y° u were more conversant with our English customs, you would scarcely have broached the request." " Thank you — thank you for exonerating me," said Philippe Sourdet, still with the novel ap- pearance of humility. " I am, of course, ignorant of the way you English observe these funeral celebrations ; but I fancied that per- haps, as a relative of the wife of the late Squire — ah, for a moment I overlooked the melancholy death of last Saturday — of the late Mr. Scot Monkton " " Scot Monkton !" interrupted the lawyer, reflectively. "He was Robert's. elder brother, and he married — let me see — why, bless my soul, he married the only daughter of the Earl of Edent ! Are you a relative of his ?" " It would be a liberty in me to exhaust your 112 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. valuable time over my uninteresting pedigree," returned the Frenchman, smoothly. " Am I still exiled from the little legal ceremony which will wind up to-morrow's programme ?" " It is easy at any time," observed Mr. Brad- ford, still puzzling over the possibility of this man's belonging, even remotely, to the British Peerage, " to see a will at Doctors' Commons. I will initiate you afterwards into that English ceremony, if you like. Dear me ! Are you really a relative of Lady Emily Stuart's ?" "Her early death, and that of her young husband, were sad " " But," interposed the man of law, coolly ob- jecting to have his question parried, "did I understand aright f " I have the honour, Mr. Bradford, of being connected very directly with the family of Scot Monkton's wife. Am I," with a smile of bland insinuation, " still to be kept without the pale to-morrow ?" " I will, if you wish it, speak to Mr. Monk- ton." " Thanks." The Frenchman's gloves were still at last, and he took up his hat. "I hoped you would have offered to take me in THE SQUIRE'S LEGACT. 113 with you ; I should have felt the obligation, and returned it, perchance, at some future time. But you intend me to understand your last sugges- tion as nothing more or less than a polite negative. Well," with a parting smile, and the gracious offer of his broad hand, " I am content to be treated as a stranger instead of a relative. We must all suffer at times the * slings and arrows/ et cetera; and indeed, with regard to the will, no one could be in any doubt as to its purport. When an only son is left, one can pretty safely venture to guess the destination of the property to be willed — eh, Mr. Bradford ?" " One can always venture to guess, Mon- sieur," assented the lawyer ; " no power, even of the law, can stop a man's guessing/' " I thought," he added to himself, after the door had closed upon his visitor, " if he knew how to take a hint at all, he would take that. What can induce the fellow to want to hear the Squire's will I If he expects that any such name as his is mentioned there, his absence will, at any rate, save him a mortification. Sourdet— the name is as strange to me as the look of the man himself! Sourdet! And related, he said — not connected only, but really related — to VOL. I. I 114 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. the Stuarts! Stay! Ill just look it over." Taking down a heavily-bound book from one of the shelves, Mr. Bradford turned to a certain page, and studied that intently for a few minutes. " The man's assertion was a lie !" he muttered, closing the book with a bang expressive of the contempt he felt. " I thought so. But how " — a grim smile stole over his lips as he replaced the book — " can a man be prepared for whole- sale falsehoods, even from a chance visitor ? His motive ! Well, that will keep. I can think it over in the train, I shall have more leisure then. The moment he came into the room I distrusted him ; and I rarely distrust without some cause. Polite enough he was, and well dressed, but there was more of the adventurer than the aristocrat about him. I must think it over presently. Poor little Lady Emily !" On his way to the door, the lawyer stopped a moment at his son's table. " Kenneth seems to have put up his papers to-day, for a wonder," he thought; "but I must give Reynolds that form for the Assignor re Harrison, and the notes for filling in. I hope Ken didn't forget them. It was the last thing THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 115 he did, so would lie at the top here. This is it, I suppose." Kenneth's business hand was clear and good, but his father would as soon have thought of studying a law paper without his glasses as of walking down Chancery Lane without his hat. So, with his glasses on, he stood and read the paper he had taken first from Kenneth's drawer. " Notes for the filling in of form for Assignor re Harrison. First — . ( The seventh is young Lord Adelbert, The victor over all ; Slowly he leaves his wounded steed And treads the kingly hall. The rose- wreath and the golden ring He takes — the conqueror's prize- Kisses the maiden's pallid cheek, And breathes her name, and dies.' Well, that's a novel way of filling in a form. The practical filling in of a certificate of lunacy, I call that ! What a fool Ken is P Yet, for all his muttered anger, the old law- yer laid the paper almost gently back in the drawer. " He — the lad might at any rate have chosen a more lively subject," he mused, pettishly. " What connection can such a fable have with a man's business life ? Folly P i2 116 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. " Reynolds," he said, aloud, as he passed through the outer office, where the clerks bent silently over their work, " see to those forms, will you ? Mr. Kenneth had a — a German mat- ter to decipher, so he may not have had time to complete what I said this morning you might leave to him. Good day to you all." The clerks, one and all of whom had made their own discoveries as to what lay behind the calm concentrated front of this old man of the law, looked up to answer bis parting nod with a brisk " good evening, sir," and then Mr. Brad- ford passed down the squares and through the archway into Holborn, where, without fixing his eyes upon any particular object, he raised his umbrella as a dragoon would draw hi& sword, and stood a moment in placid expecta- tion. And when two hansoms drove up, with a brisk idea of contesting the prize, he ran his eye calmly over the points of both the horses, before he selected one to take him to Gordon Square. 117 CHAPTER VIL GORDON SQUARE is not by any means one of the most cheerful spots in London ; but — as Miss Joan Bradford sometimes said to her- self, when she turned into it on her way home — " each of the houses contains its own little world, and, in spite of the depressing want of individuality without, strange and wonderful life-histories are being worked out within." Miss Bradford's was one of the porticoed houses on the north side of the square ; but, though to all outward seeming a twin com- panion to its next-door neighbour, it is doubtful whether the whole square contained another house which, like its mistress, was so softly and richly clothed, so pleasantly impregnated by soothing tints, and bright ideas, and flower- 118 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. scents, and had altogether such a warm, sweet air of home about it. Miss Joan felt this more pleasantly than usual that evening, as she sat in her easy-chair near the window, the long full skirt of her satin dress falling over her crossed feet ; and the lace shawl on her shoulders — as well as the lace turned back upon her sleeves, and lying on her neat grey hair — as white as falling snow. There are some people who, when they sit alone, give a room gigantic proportions, and themselves sink into a mournful, solitary insignificance ; but, though Miss Joan's drawing-rooms were large and lofty, and she was alone in this one, there was a something — an indefinable fitness in every- thing — which made a perfect picture, without dearth or deficiency. This was what Doris Egerton thought when she opened the door ; and her step, which had been so light and swift upon the stairs, slackened a little as she advanced to Miss Bradford's chair. " Auntie, I'm here." Miss Bradford raised her head, dropped her knitting into her lap, and brought her spectacles to bear upon the young figure opposite her — such a pretty, bright young figure, with eyes THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 119 full of fun, and lips running over with laughter, yet so shy and pure and sweet. " Will it do, Aunt Joan ?" Miss Joan suddenly gathered a grave and doubtful expression into her eyes, totally oblit- erating the one of pride and pleasure which the girl's sudden presence had evoked. " What do you mean by ' it,' my dear ?" — and her spectacles went upwards, from the white dress to the dainty little bunch of ferns and lilies which fastened it at the throat, and from the piquant face to the wreath of fair bright hair. " I think I meant myself altogether, auntie," explained Doris, with a laugh and a blush. " You see, I'm grown up now, and I'm going to the Opera for the first time as a grown-up person; and — will Kenneth be impressed, do you think V 9 " With your great age, you mean ?" "Now, auntie I" And, forgetful of the new dress, down went Doris upon her knees beside Miss Joan and kissed her; after which Miss Joan, softly inhaling the lily fragrance, and letting her cheek rest beside her darling's for a few moments — as if her warm heart clung to something sweeter still — inquired, with an air 120 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. of indifference, why she did not wear a brooch, or a bow, instead of those flowers, which were sure to droop before the night was over. "I would rather have the flowers," said Doris, softly touching them. "And so would Kenneth, eh?" retorted the elder lady, with a great pleasure in her eyes, as she felt how these two favourites of hers had both the tastes she loved. " Well, if you don't object to be the cause of early death to anything so pretty, I don't. Now, cannot you read me something till they come ? I don't expect either of them in proper time for dinner — I never do. Kenneth has too many chimeras, and his father too many clients. Bring one of the magazines." The old lady's eyes followed the girl as she crossed the room. Was it really little Doris — the child whose holiday visits to this house had been its rarest sunshine, yet who had always caused a certain trouble and restlessness there, by reason of her high spirits and the very varied pursuits in which she delighted ? Little Doris ! She was such a child always in her loving, wayward moods that her flashes of romance and earnestness had been something only to laugh at ; such a child that the brightness and THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 121 softness and grace had seemed too natural to call for either wonder or admiration. Little Doris ! Had she then grown out of her child- hood suddenly in one afternoon, or had Aunt Joan been sleeping for a year, while her little girl drifted softly round that corner where the brook and river meet ? " What is it, child ?" — her thoughts escaped in words at last, as Doris came back to the window, with a book in her hand. " When did you grow up ? " " To-day, auntie," said the girl, answering her ' aunt's real thought, while she laughed happily ; "the moment I put on this very long dress, and twisted my hair up. You had the dress made beautifully for me ; I never saw anything so pretty, auntie, did you ?" "Lots of things," returned Miss Joan, curtly; " and as for the dress, my dear, any girl's dress is always sure to look well if she acts upon what George Herbert tells her : * Say not that this with that lace will look well, but this with my discretion will be brave.' Yes, I see you . understand — don't look so grave about it. Now begin to read. What was the part in last month ?" 122 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. Miss Joan Bradford had a memory which was excessively unstable in the retention of fiction, and, though she took in almost every magazine which was issued, and always conscientiously regarded the serial stories as their prominent features, before beginning each month's instal- ment — generally read aloud to her by Doris — a certain and unvarying programme had to be gone through. With a somewhat puzzled ex- pression behind her glasses, she would put it thus — " Doris, my dear, I'm ready to hear the next chapter, but first tell me where we left oflf." " Just where the hero and heroine are going to run away," Doris would say, perhaps, as to- day. " Don't you remember, auntie V 9 " Remember ! Of course I do ! But — let me see, who are the hero and heroine, and where are they going to run V 9 Upon which Doris, with a sparkle of laugh- ter all over her face, would turn the magazine down upon its face in her lap, and, in a style peculiarly her own — compounded of great awe for the pathetic passages, an intense enjoyment of the happy parts, and an irrepressible excite- ment over the sensational incidents — would tell THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 125 the tale from the beginning. At the conclusion of which feat. Miss Joan would nod her head, and tranquilly observe, " Yes, now I re- member." And, after that encouragement, Doris would be allowed to begin the current number. The year being young on this day, what Doris had to relate was only equal to one volume ; so she had completed it, and Miss Joan, after listening attentively, had placidly assured her she "remembered," when Mr. Brad- ford came in, foUowed by Kenneth, whose face bore a very emphatic answer to Doris's previ- ous doubts as to whether he would be impressed by her appearance. " Doris," he said, with a flash of real pleasure on his narrow, sallow face, " how lovely you are to-night ! You are like — a lily in the moon- light, I think, with the one spot of green at its heart." " Opera — eh, Doris ?" observed Mr. Bradford, dryly, as he watched her pleasant, unconfused reception of his son's admiration. *« And you think you are going to enjoy that t Pooh, pooh ; — it's only the dress you are going to enjoy, and it's only you Kenneth will enjoy. Don't I 124 the squire's legacy. remember being a fool myself once, and taking Ken's mother to the Opera ? I was a younger fellow than he is, for it was the year the Re- form Bill was passed ; and when we got home, we didn't know what opera we'd heard, either of us. Dear me, I little thought then that I should ever have a son of my own, and an arch fiend gnawing at my ankles !" " Is the gout bad to-day ?" asked Miss Joan, keeping back the laughter from her face- " How sorry I am !" " Don't tell falsehoods, Joan ; nobody who hasn't had it can be sympathetic over the gout. It's as utter an impossibility as that a bachelor should love his wife and children. There's Ken- neth — he's a good deal more sorry for lunatics who die to muffled music on the stage. Bless you, you can't help it, lad ; poets are all insane, more or less — generally more. Well, there's one comfort for us ; the race will be extinct some day, like the white elephants." " I will tell you what you ought to say, Mr. Bradford," said Doris, with a quiet touch upon Kenneth's arm, the meaning of which he under- stood full well — THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 125 *' ' Oh, if billows and pillows, and hours and flowers, And all the brave rhymes of an elder day, Could be furled together this genial weather, And carted or carried on wafts away, And never again trotted out — ah xne, How much fewer volumes of verse there'd be V " " You quoting !" ejaculated the lawyer, start- ing back. " To what is the world coming ? A child like you should not know what rhyme means. Now it is my turn to quote against you— 1 Man for the head, and woman for the heart, Man to command, and woman to obey — All else confusion V Woman has need only of a heart, you see, and to obey." " I see, Mr. Bradford — when she has all the heart, and the man has all the head. I think it is far better to say, both for the head and both for the beart." "Most uncomfortable state of affairs; only fit for the stage — that is, for Kenneth. He re- verses the general idea; the world is not a stage to him, but the stage is his world. A narrow idea, lad, and your mental muscles will soon be as contracted as those of the old far- mer whose daily prayer was, * Bless me and my 126 THE squire's legacy. wife, my son John and his wife — we four, and no more. Amen.' " "Mustn't the poet's world be a very wide, instead of narrow, one, Mr. Bradford?" said Doris, gently. " He has a world within, as well as the one without, you know." "All rubbish, my dear! Why, I knew an artist once, who had a picture hung in the Academy, and he spent every day of the whole three months before it. No visitors, of their own accord, were inclined to notice it, but he drew their attention to the painting eagerly, as if he were a spectator himself, and had been wonder- fully struck by it, pointing out its beauties, and going into raptures over them. Could any- thing be more contemptible than this solitary fellow, always — with idle hands and hungry vanity — hovering over this one work of his, in the wild delusion that people believed him a connoisseur, struck by real merit in the paint- ing? Certainly he never uttered a word in dispraise of the works of his successful brother- artists, but he scarcely glanced at them, simply because his mind was too narrow to hold them." THE squire's legacy. 127 " Poor fellow T said Kenneth, " Did he do any great work afterwards ?" " Before another exhibition opened," was the reply, as Mr. Bradford offered his arm to Miss Joan, on the summons to dinner, "he was dead." It was not until the meal was over, and they all had returned to the drawing-room together — for Miss Joan chose to sip her wine as long as her guests might care to stay, — that Mr. Bradford mentioned his approaching journey to Kingswood, and gave his son a few last instructions for following him on the morrow. "How does Mr. Monkton seem to have borne this awful shock ?" asked Miss Joan, as she quietly motioned Doris to the tea-table. " You've seen him, I suppose ?" "Yes, I saw him. He — I cannot tell you how he's borne it." " Doctor Boyd says," put in Kenneth, " that he has been most manly in his grief." " He comes into a large fortune," interposed the lawyer ; but Doris fancied that there was more meaning in the sudden softening of his features than in the brusque words. "He'll 128 THE squire's legacy. find it easy to bear the affliction of being master of Kingswood." "His grief is like your gout, cousin," said Miss Joan, smiling ; " we cannot feel it — yet." "Whatever he had to bear, I think," ob- served Kenneth, "he would bear really, not bending under it." "Holding himself upright, eh?" questioned the lawyer, hitting a great truth unconsciously. "A large fortune will subdue all hearts to him, just as did that of Timon of Athens." " Timon of Athens !" repeated the lawyer, in muttered contempt. "Always some fictitious fellow dragged in. Ken, for pity's sake, keep aloof from any man (or maid) of Athens." Miss Joan laughed merrily. "It's of no use, cousin," she said, glancing up into his face, and reading all its kindliness behind its present freezing rigidity; "the disease has gone too far into Kenneth's constitu- tion. You must give up your original methods." " I must give Mm up," retorted the old man, turning away to take his tea. "I see how it will end. On the office door will soon be the placard, Gone to the devil. Shocked, eh, THE squire's legacy. 129 Doris ? Why, my dear, when the lawyers at the Temple used to dine at the ' Devil and St. Dunstan's,' they always informed their clients of the fact in those curt terms." "How quiet you are, Doris!" whispered Kenneth, drawing his chair beside hers at the little tea-table. "Silence is a girl's only charm," observed Mr. Bradford. But he came up to her side just then for a lump of sugar, and for a moment he let his hand softly stroke the hair upon her temples. " A quarter to eight !" he exclaimed present- ly, as he put down his cup. " I must be off. Kenneth, you were in Grosvenor Place to-day, did you look at Mr. Monkton's house V 9 "Yes. It was closed, and the hatchment up. " All right. Now good-bye." "Do you remember, Ken," asked Doris, as they drove through the quiet squares, "the first time you showed me Mr. Monkton's house in Grosvenor Place? There was a line of carriages before the door, and there were footmen in crimson on the steps. You said VOL. I. K 130 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. they were having a party after the levee. I remember it so well! And to think of the house to-day J" "The sad scenes follow so closely on the bright ones always," said Kenneth, gently, " that it is providential we do not see or feel them coming." " But then," rejoined Doris, her own natural brightness coming to the rescue now, " you must remember, too, Ken, that the bright ones follow the sad ones just as closely. Now what have you to tell me ? I never intended to be so dismal and stupid. I — I don't know why that sorrow at Kingswood should have such an effect upon me, when you're giving me so great a pleasure. Now tell me how the new poem goes on. Has Penelope finished that scornful speech to her lovers ?" They were driving through Drury Lane ; and — though the noise was great, and the scene so blurred and scarred by squalor and intem- perance, that Doris, contrasting this with the quiet squares which they had left only a few minutes ago, doubly felt how true it was that the dark scenes lay sleeping ever close behind the fairer ones —Kenneth, leaning forward in the THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 131 carriage, his f&ce losing its quiet dreamy look, and every feature working with excitement, told Doris of the feelings which were to sway the wife of Ulysses through his new poem ; of her truth and fidelity to her absent husband, and her scorn for her wooers, yet of the fatal timidity which led her to flatter and jest with, while she scorned them, and to make daily with her lips the promise which her heart could never keep. "Like all other poets, Ken," said Doris, smiling, when he had finished, " you will make her a woman to be pitied as well as admired ; but just think how easy it must be to keep true to one you love. Would it not be harder to write of a woman who kept true without the love to help her — the love which must make it all so very easy ?" " It would be a sadder poem," answered the young man, simply. "Here we stop, do we? Oh, Ken, I'm so happy to be here !" And the fact was evident, not only to her companion, but to many a spectator besides, who liked to see the pretty face brighten with pleasure or sadden with sympathy. At first, when the curtain fell, she would turn to her K2 132 THE squire's LEGAOYl companion and speak of the music and th£ scenes, her eyes brilliant with enjoyment ; but gradually she grew very silent ; and when, all was over she seemed to wake from a dream, tof give that slow anxious look into Kenneth's face. " Did you feel strange, Kenneth— jus fc as if you were a part of it all ; as if the sorrow on the stage belonged to you and me, and we could not separate ourselves from it? I — I hope I shall never feel so again." "My dear," said Kenneth, tenderly, as he folded her cloak about her, "even though I know Lucia so well now, I can never help being moved— as you are on this first night-by the graceful beauty of its music, and the solemnity of that closing scene. Still remember that Edgar and Lucia are now " " Never mind," she interrupted, with a laugh ; " do not bring in the reality, just to cheer me ; it is so unlike you, Ken, and — I'm all right now. Yes, I'm ready." He hardly spoke to her through the drive home ; but then they were so accustomed to be silent together when they would, that it never surprised either ; and she, seeing only the old rapt look in his dark face, could not guess that THE squire's legacy. 133 he bad been made really anxious by that glimpse which she had shown of a new and un- characteristic timidity. When Miss Joan received her young cousins at home, she gave Doris an extra kiss. "Send away your cab, Kenneth," she said. " You ought both to be able to enjoy a little supper now ; and I have something to tell you. Ken, we shall both have to lose our little Doris for six months. I have heard to-night from your father, love " — with a look, which was in- tended to be quite calm, into the girl's question- ing face — " He will be here within a week; but then he intends to take you abroad until September or October, and, as of course I can- not go, though he asks me, we shall lose you for the whole Summer. This being so, dear, I think you and I will go to Kingswood to- morrow and see the Dower House ; you wished it, and I know Kenneth will like to have us. Ab, I see how glad you both are ! Well, that is settled, then ; so send off your cab, Ken." 134 CHAPTER VIII. IN the long and lofty dining-room at Kings- wood, Miss Windish sat at the head of the laden table, presiding over " the funeral baked meats ;" while her occasional glances into the immovable face of the lawyer at the opposite end of the long table always momentarily in- capacitated her for her task. Several times had the housekeeper — her broad, comely presence soothing, in spite of its heavy black, and her face kindly, in spite of its genuine sorrow- tried to persuade Miss Michal that it would be no dereliction of her duty if she let the Rector's wife take her place, or one of those second cousins of the master's, or even if she let Sutton have the coffee served at a side-table. But no ; Miss Windish thought it her duty, and would " go through it." So she did, looking very THE squire's legacy. 135 colourless in her heavy crape, with every vestige of both shape and tint washed away from her swollen eyes ; as great a contrast as could well be imagined to the broad, dark- haired housekeeper, who presided at a still more lengthy table in the hall, where the late Squire's tenants fortified the inner man against the ravages of an appropriate grief. Once, at the beginning of the meal, Miss Windish had looked up, to meet, in great as- tonishment, the face of the Frenchman, who — by what she had chosen to call " an unfortunate chance "— had first visited Kingswood on the day of her return there. He had been standing just within the dining-room door, looking round into the faces of the guests; and for a few moments she watched him unobserved. Then her attention was claimed, and when she looked again he was gone. The sigh to which Miss Michal gave vent on this discovery, was lugubrious enough, but still it was an unconscious expression of relief; and the feeling grew upon her as the meal passed on, and still she did not see at the long table that swarthy, smiling face. Of course those old frescoed deities on th6 13(> THE squire's legacy. library ceiling had seen many and many a varied shade in the faces below them, during the hundred years they had inhabited this room; but it is doubtful whether tbey had ever looked down upon a sadder yet a braver face than tbey looked down upon in the late afternoon of that day, when Scot Monkton, leaning back in his lounging-chair, glanced up among them, wearily rather, yet with a subtle, restless longing. The glance dropped slowly, lingering upon every object in the beautiful, familiar room ; and it had just gone wandering through one of the open windows, when the door was opened, and a man entered the room, with a curious motion, as if he were trying to walk on tip-toe across the thick, soft carpet, which would have muffled the sound of any tread. In his inherent courtesy, Scot rose, a puzzled expression on his face, as he tried to recall where and when he had seen this man before. It was not long ago, he knew ; yet how could he grasp it, when, for mind and memory, the past week had dragged itself into a lifetime ? But he was not left to wonder long. " Pardon my intrusion," the visitor said, in a tone lowered apparently to suit this house of THE squire's legacy. 137 mourning, though it by no means suited the one thing by which it was accompanied— the keen, inquisitive glance roundthesplendid room — "and allow me, Mr. Monkton, to plead particularly for your servant — a fellow-countryman of my own, I see — who would not have admitted me thus unceremoniously. But I had a few words to say to you very particularly, and so I took the liberty upon myself. May I have the pleasure of hearing you say you overlook his leniency to me?" "Artaud acted rightly," said Scot. What more could he say, while the Frenchman stood waiting for that unnecessary answer, with the bland, beseeching smile upon his face ? It was all clear to him now, both where and when he had seen the man before ; and with a feeling as much of weariness as of contempt, he pointed to a chair, and retook his own ; leaning forward in it, with one arm upon his knees and his eyes upon the ground. '•'You have something particular to say to me?" he questioned. " I will hear it, Monsieur Sourdet, if I can in any way serve you." A smile, both sinister and suspicious, played round the Frenchman's lips ; but it did not delay 138 THE squire's legacy. his answer, and Scot Monkton saw nothing of it, " Perhaps the service done will be reciprocal, Mr. Monkton ; let us hope so, in any event. I quite as anxiously consulted your interest as I did my own before I determined on this step." "Interest !" repeated Scot, looking np at his companion, " No step of yours can affect my interest ; bat, if you think it can, and wish to speak of it, let me refer you to Mr. Bradford of Gray's Inn. He is now in the house, and will probably give you an interview." « I wish for no solicitor's intervention my- self," returned Sourdet, speaking still in a lowered tone, while his glance took in and valued every article the room contained ; •* and even if you insist upon it now, there will come a time, I fancy, when you will wish you had taken my advice, and had allowed the matter to be arranged solely between our two selves." " I do not think so." Scot gave this answer very quietly, as his eyes went straying through the room with that strange look which told of something stronger 'even than his love for it. "I have in my possession now," resumed Monsieur Sourdet, seeming to sit more and THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 139 more upright in his chair the more Scot, in an irresistible dejection, stooped forward in his ; " an important family secret." " Probably, monsieur ; many men have." But the young man's handsome face had sud- denly grown stiff and haggard, when he an- swered in those cool, slow words. "A family secret, which is of the utmost value." "Impossible," put in Scot, with quick con- tempt ; " no secret is ever of value. Will you be kind enough to spare me yours — especially to-day?" "I do not call it mine," the Frenchman placidly answered, pleased to see that he had stirred his listener at last ; " the secret equally -indeed, 1 may say far more nearly-affecte yourself. It is one of which you would not like to feel that anyone else was cognisant." " Then spare me the consciousness that you know it !" " It relates especially," was the Frenchman's answer to this glimpse of Scot's old haughty coolness, "to your uncle, the late Squire of Kiugswood." " The late Squire of Kingswood," said Scot, 140 the squire's legacy, more sadly than angrily, "was my fattier." " Yes — certainly, yes," rejoined Monsieur Sourdet, with a gesture of deprecation, which sat awkwardly upon him ; " but I referred to the late Scot Monkton." "What would you say of him, Monsieur Sourdet ?" The words were uttered more tranquilly than the others had been, yet even Philippe Sourdet's unpractised ear caught the change of tone, "What I have to say of him," he replied, softly drawing the palm of one hand over the back of the other, "I can only say after you have agreed to my conditions, Mr. Monkton." " What are they !" " They are simply — nothing can be more simple to you — a question of livres, or, as you English would say, sir, a mere question of pounds, and shillings, and pence." " You mean your terms, then, not conditions ; you are desirous of selling your secret." The concentrated contempt of the young Squire's voice affected the Frenchman's breath for a few moments. He indulged in an abrupt laugh as he regained it. " I chance just now," he said, trying to regain THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 141 his ease, " to see how I can be benefited by the use of ten thousand pounds ; and for that ten thousand pounds, Mr. Monkton, I will— as you so proudly put it — sell the secret ; or, as you may wisely prefer, keep it myself untold. What say you, Mr. Monkton? Ten thousand pounds is but a trifle to you." "If you have any communication to make which is worth that sum," replied Scot, rising wearily, " pray make it to Mr. Bradford, and he will pay you whatever it is worth. If you prefer telling it to me, tell it at once, and I will be just in my payment too." " You wilfully (or very innocently) misunder- stand me," said Sourdet, his affected patronage failing to hide the new tone of malignity. " I will have no dealings with your legal adviser ; I will leave that to you. He is not a man with whom I should care to be mixed in business; But, independently of that, it is for your interest ta decide this matter yourself. You could never miss the sum I ask." As he said this, his eyes, valuing everything they fell upon, swept the wide expanse of park beyond the open windows ; and, almost uncon- sciously, Scot's followed them. 142 THE SQUIRE'S legacy. What a beautiful home this was, and how dearly he loved it ! " If I had ten thousand pounds," he said then, quietly, "I would perhaps ask you to tell me what you know of my uncle's life — as for buying your silence, I would not do it if I had ten thou- sand times ten thousand pounds — but, as I have not, you must do as you will with your secret." "When vou have had time to think the matter quietly over, Mr. Monkton," returned the Frenchman, with an attempt at airy cer- tainty, " you will, I think, entirely change your mind. As for your not having ten thousand pounds, you must, if you please, tell that to the marines, as I've heard you English say. And you will not, Tm sure, voluntarily step into an open chasm when a mere signature of yours will ensure you such a splendid " " We have said quite enough on this subject," put in Scot, in a tone of unmistakable pride and displeasure. "I hope I have made my meaning as clear to you as yours is to me. Your secrecy nothing should tempt me to buy. If you can give me any information respecting my uncle's life abroad, I will willingly pay you what it is worth — after I know it. As for THE squire's legacy. 143 paying you 'in the dark ' for intelligence of my own family, 1 have not the slightest intention of doing anything so absurd, either now, or at any future time." "You are out of sorts, sir," said Philippe Sourdet, with the very evident intention of giving a genial turn to the conversation, that this interview might not summarily close the intercourse which had been so far, to all appearance, unsuccessful; "you look ill and tired ; and I am to blame for this intrusion. I will wish you good afternoon now, Mr. Monk- ton, if you will allow me. I feel it a privilege to have been permitted to follow your honoured and lamented father " The plausible speech was never completed, for something in the young Englishman's face slew the false words before they fell ; and Monsieur Philippe Sourdet, his step not quite innocent of a desire to sneak, and his heavy form not more guiltless of an inclination to cringe, walked through the groups in the great hall, and drew a few breaths of air out- side the silent house, before he ventured on the pleasant desultory chat which he wished to enjoy with one or two whom he had, during 144 THE squire's legacy. the day, set apart in his mind as worthy of the honour. * ****** From a deep reverie, Scot Monkton rose as the library began to fill. Every phase of the long, sad ceremony was over now, and those who could pay no further respect to one of whom they had all such pleasant memories had come to bid farewell to " the Squire." u Le roi est mort — vive le roil" The words forced themselves on Scot's memory with bitterness just then. Perhaps through all his life — through the years that were past, and the years that were to come — never once again did such a tide of bitterness rush in and deluge his thoughts. He understood it all himself, and those who could not have understood it did not know of its existence ; and so it swiftly passed, and Scot's own rare, trustful bravery swept back every trace of its acrid course. "They have not even yet recovered from their surprise," observed Mr. Bradford, as the other guests left the room, and he wait- ed with Scot, looking anxiously into the face of the rich young Squire, whom he knew to be far more envied than pitied to-day. THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 145 " They were all established in their own idea that your father must have made a will. Many a fabric, built on an expected legacy, has tottered to the ground this afternoon. I must confess that, though of course I knew I had made no will, I fancied one would turn up somehow. The Squire was such a kind-hearted, generous fellow that — though of course, in any case, his property would have gone to you, as it goes now (no one, knowing his love for you, could ever doubt that) — I should have fancied he would have bequeathed a hundred little legacies. Well, he knew best. 1 never did meet with such a head— out of my own profession ; nor a kinder heart. And we must remember how suddenly his summons came, and what trust he had in the one who — as he knew — would inherit in any case. His confidence in you has never (he once told me this himself) been shaken for one hour, and so I don't wonder — there being no needy members of your family, and scarcely any relatives at all — that he didn't burden his mind with legacies." " Mr. Bradford," said Scot, turning from the window, and pausing a few moments before the lawyer's chair, " my father left one legacy VOL. I. L ]4t> THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. — only one. I asked you to stay behind with me, because I wish to speak to you about it, if you please, now — you and I alone." 147 CHAPTER IX. DORIS EGERTON stood on the threshold of her future home, and wondered many- things. There were no men at work to-day, and the reason of this Doris understood full well, as the slow, clear note of the funeral bell reached her from that slender spire which looked so white against the woods beyond the park. A beauti- ful view stretched before her, but over it all the funeral bell swept like a coming sorrow. Miss Joan, entering the garden, stood a mo- ment to watch the girl, vexed to see this look of sorrow on her face. The red japonica, hang- ing about the pillar against which she leaned, framed her like a picture — a pretty picture, Miss Joan thought, in spite of the black dress which Doris, like herself, had chosen to wear this day, but too grave, considering that the L2 148 THE squire's legacy. Kingswood Dower House had charmed her so greatly on her first view of it. Miss Joan hastened her steps, and touched Doris on the arm. " Come, my dear, you have stood here long enough ; let us unpack our bag, and lunch, and then we can have a walk before Kenneth comes." "Will he be long, auntie?" asked Doris, absently, " Will the funeral take a long, long time?" " People don't generally hurry over those per- formances, my dear; and I'm sure we don't want Kenneth back yet." So Doris, with a smile upon her lips now — the smile was ever so ready to chase the short- lived gravity — turned with her aunt, and, walk- ing through the empty house, they picked their way among bricks and mortar, and passed out into the garden behind, in which they had, on their first examination, discovered a pretty arbour. There, quite cheerfully and hungrily, they ate the sandwiches, and drank the wine which they had brought ; and then, leaving the bag in. a corner of the seat, with a comfortable assur- THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 149 ance that it was safe, they strolled together down the long garden, and unchained, and chained behind them, an iron gate which led them into a small shrubbery, the path in which was scarcely wide enough to allow them to walk together. But Doris only clung the more closely to her aunt, smiling as she compared this walk with one through the London streets. At the end of the shrubbery, another iron gate separated it from a wide meadow, along the edge of which ran a straight bridle-road, bor- dered on one side by tall old larch trees. " This avenue, you see, runs straight down to the river," said Miss Joan. When they bad walked about half a mile, they reached an old stone bridge, which led almost directly to a curious old farm-house* If three or four architects, of different modes of thinking, had all been allowed to try experiments in this spot, and then the results had been huddled together and formed into a dwelling-house, such an effect would have been but natural. Behind it, the woods stretched to the crown of the hills above Kingswood ; but in the valley 150 THE squire's legacy. between the house and the river, and along its banks, lay the cultivated land of a farm. Miss Bradford and Doris were crossing the bridge as they made these observations, and, be- fore they had paused and considered where they were, they had opened the garden gate, and were sauntering up towards the house. "Seeing that it is closed and unoccupied," Miss Joan said, " I think we may as well have a look round, my dear. I remember this old farm well ; it is called the Black Birches." " I remember too." " You remember ! Why, you have never even heard of it before !" " Yes, I have, auntie." But Doris did not tell that she only remembered what Mr. Monkton had told her on the previous Saturday at Rich- mond, about this old farm of his. " Those are the birches that name it," said Miss Joan, pointing to three trees on a slope beyond the house. " Your brother used to say they were as old as Burnham Beeches." " How low the house lies !" remarked Doris, drawing a long breath. "I should not like to live here." " The sight of the Dower House has spoiled THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 151 you for this," said Miss Joan, " quite naturally, I will own ; still we have had a pretty walk, and 1 intend to rest here for a few minutes," The seat which she had chosen was a broken bench from which most of the paint had been either washed by rain or peeled by the sun, and from above them a shower of thorn blossoms fell slowly to the ground like snow, while one true-hearted thrush sang of the young world which the Spring was bringing. Even Miss Joan could not guess how long the garden had been neglected, for the bordering tracery was lost, and the daisies and thrift which had been used to form it, straggled over each other, and were in some places eaten away, and in others trampled into the earth. Still the hyacinths proudly showed their beauty yet, and had not died for want of care; and, though the bindweed, with its spotless wreaths and bells, had taken a hold on every bar of one unopened gate, a little crowd of tulips burned yet in richest colours against a dark old yew beside the house. The bark of the young apple-trees was nibbled away by wandering sheep, but the pear-tree against the timbered wall was cut and nailed with care. 152 THE squire's legacy. "What is it that makes it seem so melan- choly, auntie ?" " The neglect," returned Miss Bradford, promptly, " and the ugliness of the place." " Still the valley is very pretty, and I like the sound of the river," said Doris, her eyes follow- ing it in its course. " You wouldn't like it always so near ; it is dreary. Is that a man coming round the house ?" " Yes, auntie." The man came slowly past them as they sat there — a small elderly man, but hale and strong and actve — bearing on his shoulder a basket filled with knots of withered grass. When he had opened the gate, he held it for them. " Thank you," said Miss Joan ; " it would have been awkward if we had got ourselves locked in. Why, surely I remember your face !" " Liath, miss." And when he had said this, and touched his hat, he locked the gate, and stood, as if to give the ladies time to walk on without him. There had probably been a time when his name was known as Goliath, his baptismal ap- pellation having been given him in affectionate THE squire's legacy. 153 « remembrance of the giant of Gath ; but the wish alone must have been father to the thought, for a smaller labouring man than Liath it would certainly be difficult to find. There is a proba- bility that he had had parents once, and a sur- name, but the memory of both was lost in the mist of ages, and, as he had never married or died, there had been no necessity yet to try to pierce this mist. " Yes, I remember the name," said Miss Joan, stopping for the old man. " Can you tell us, Liath, if there is any other way back to the Dower House ?" There was only this way by the grey bridge and the Larch Walk, Liath told them, unless they crossed the foot-bridge at the Green Pits up the river, or followed the river for about a mile, and walked across the iron bridge in the park ; but it was twice as far, at least, as going by the Larch Walk. " Was that the Larch Walk along which we came ?" asked Doris. " Yes, that wur the Larch Walk — that straight walk from the Dower 'ouse to the bridge." "How near together the two houses seern^ 154 THE squire's legacy. # auntie!" said Doris. "And this is vacant?" " Yes, miss," replied the man, fancying him- self addressed. " I dunna quite know whether the master means to let it ; it's old and gloamy, and the furncher inside's wored too." Then, as if he had said his say, he put his fingers to his hat, and turned aside across the fields. When they returned to the garden of the Dower House, Miss Joan formed a sudden and unexpected resolution — she would walk over to Comely Place and see Miss Chamberlain. " You will come, Doris ?" she added, a little doubt creeping into her tone. " Indeed I will not," said Doris, hotly. " I will never go to see Miss Chamberlain." " A silly prejudice, child ; but, if you keep to it, I must go alone." " It is no prejudice ; it is an honest feeling," said Doris, " and I am not at all ashamed of it, auntie." " All the worse. Try to dismiss such petty feelings while you are here alone, love." But Doris would not let her aunt walk by herself ; she accompanied her until they came within sight of two red gables beyond a thick THE squire's legacy. 155 and heavy shrubbery, and then she turned and retraced her steps. She entered the Dower House through the garden at the back, and then passed on into the pillared porch. She would stand there again, and look across the wide and beautiful park, to that great house lying — with closed eyes to-day — upon the slope; and to that tall spire which rose so purely white above the trees. Doris, standing back within the shade of the portico, was presently aware that some one was waiting near her, just without, by the straggling blossoms of the japonica. She went forward, and saw a cottage woman, who stood looking across the park, eagerly and intently. She was poorly, though neatly, dressed, and her face was so sad, and her attitude so full of shrinking timidity, that Doris involuntarily stepped forward and spoke to her. " Look," the woman said, softly, only having moved her eyes for a moment, to glance at Doris's face, and then turned them back to their former gaze. *' They are leaving the house now. What a mournful sight, miss, isn't it?" It may have been that Doris's eyes were not 156 THE squire's legacy. so accustomed to long distances, or the un- familiarity of the scene may have prevented her, but she could not detect what the woman saw — the long procession moving slowly among the trees. " Can you see them now, miss 'f ' asked Anna Wakeley, presently; her voice low and subdued, but more by nature than by the subject she discussed. Yes, Doris could see the procession now, though she shrank back to her old place, and looked out as if unwillingly, with a wistful sadness in her eyes. First came the four black horses drawing the hearse, then the line of mourning coaches, all so sombre, though weighed down by no pomp of feathers and velvet; then a long line of private carriages following slowly ; and, after these, men's figures riding and walking in a confused, indistinct mass. Anna Wakeley, turning when the procession had passed, saw that Doris had been standing with her face covered, and she went up to her in shy anxiety. " It is a sad sight, miss ; it is far better to turn one's eyes away — only I couldn't help THE squire's legacy. 157 looking. I fancied I might have recognised the figures." "You know many of them, I daresay?" Doris said, in her pretty, friendly way, though she hardly knew how to receive this strange glimpse of confidence. " I am a stranger here now, but I am coming to live here soon, at this very house." The woman's eyes went slowly from the gentle young face to the empty house behind. " That will be well," she said, almost absent- ly ; " the young Squire will not be so lonely." "Will you tell me where you live?" asked Doris, her eyes clear and kind. Just as Anna stood pointing where the row of poplars behind her cottage were visible to very strong eyes (or imagination), a man lounged up to the gate of the Dower House, and, seeing her, opened it, and advanced across the lawn to her side, only by a rude stare acknowledging the presence of Doris. " Why ain't you at 'ome ?" he asked his wife. " Why didn't you follow the Squire, Oliver ?" she inquired, in return, her low voice contrast- ing oddly with his rough tones. 158 THE SQUIRE'S legacy. He threw back his head with a hard, unsteady laugh. " Follow ! I'd like to see myself at it ! Go 'oine now, and get the room ready for the furriner; he's comin' to stay to-night. And mind you have some supper for^m. Be off 1" " Why — why is he coming ?" asked Anna. But it was only half the horror of the tone which fell so sharply on Doris's ears. " He's stayin' cos he's business to-morra with young Monkton — though you'd no cause to ask, nor to be told. Are ye goin' ?" " Where are you going, Oliver ?" "What's it matter to you? If I choose to walk to the 'ouse, and see if there's beer about, I s'pose it ain't no business o' yourn. Now be off!" And, without waiting to see his order obeyed, he slouched back again into the park. Seeing the woman's bitter shame and misery, and guessing at a little of the truth, Doris came from the porch, and gently laid a hand upon her shoulder. But what could she say ? Could she mention the drunken husband, or this nameless foreigner, the very mention of whom had brought such THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 159 real pain into the woman's face ? Doris — though, in the kindness of her heart, she longed to say something — was too innately delicate to touch on either subject, so she only said just the words which came to her lips of their own accord. " It is very lonely here." Anna turned and looked questioningly into the girl's face — the pretty, sunny face which had struck her so strangely in its brightness, there and upon that day. Yes, the words had been felt at heart. In all the glare and brilli- ance of the Summer afternoon, some chill of loneliness had fallen upon it. " May I come back?" she asked, with a sud- den purport, drawing her shawl around her, as if preparing to leave hurriedly. " I will not be long, Miss ; shall you be here?" " I shall be here," said Doris, gently ; " thank you, I shall be glad for you to come." Perhaps Anna guessed that the gladness would have two motives, for she smiled a grate- ful smile which seldom visited her lips. How Doris would have wondered if she had been told beforehand that she would regretfully 160 THE SQUIRE'S legacy. watch this woman leave her, and be childishly seized by this inexplicable sudden loneliness ! She turned into the house, and wandered once more through the echoing, empty rooms, trying to engross herself in their distribution. This would be her father's library ; this her father's smoking-room ; — Ah, what pretty rooms they would all be, when her father's choice had furnished them, and he was here himself to give them their real look of home ! What a pretty home to spend a long, long life in ! Across the picture darted a thought which, clear and vivid as it flashed, vanished before its light had blended in among these scenes. It was a vision of the home of which Kenneth so often spoke, the home of which she was to be the light and soul and beauty ; where Kenneth and she were to work out life's grandest pro- blems together ; he a famous poet, and she the one thing dearest to him in the world. So often this life had been pictured to her that it was strange how fleetly the vision faded from her grasp when, as now, it had risen upon the picture in her mind — most strange, though Doris never felt it so. " Poor Ken, how true he is !" she said, with a THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 161 soft little sigh : and then she went back to her planning, and saw her father's figure in the brightest and pleasantest spot of every room. Doris never thought how long she had been dreaming in those upper chambers, until, when she returned to the hall, a rather startling sound greeted her — the crackling of burning wood. For one moment she stood appalled, and then through one of the open doors she caught a vision which brought a smile to her lips. Within the empty dining-room, Anna Wake- ley was unpacking a basket, and spreading tea- cups on the temporary table supplied by the absent paper-hangers; and, kneeling on the hearth, the labourer whom Doris had seen at the Black Birches was feeding with splints and shavings the fire which crackled under a kettle already singing cheerfully. Years afterwards Doris used to tell — and sometimes with odd and unaccountable tears in her eyes — of the real joy which this discovery gave her, though the full reason for this joy was never quite defined even to herself. She told of how kindly and quietly the woman waited on her, and how sweet the bread-and-butter tasted, and how refreshing the tea; and how Liath VOL. I. M 162 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. blew with his mouth until the wide flame leapt and scattered all the solitude. Then of how they stood and told her — not of the grand old house, but of the cottages about her home ; while she sat there, a little queen, waited on with as much gentleness by the hard hands of the man as by the soft seamstress fingers of the pretty cottage woman. But it was only Liath who ever mentioned afterwards the pleasure any other but Doris had had in that afternoon which brought them together for the first time. For to whom — apart from these two — could Anna ever tell of feelings which were fanciful and wo- manly and pure f So, after all, it was little wonder that, when Miss Joan arrived, a hearty laugh, as well as hearty thanks, followed her first astonished gaze and exclamation ; and even as little wonder that the sight which met him chased from Kenneth Bradford's face the sober reflection of this day. * I thought all the Kingswood men were at the funeral." This he said, addressing Liath, as he pleasantly and courteously received a cup of tea from Anna's hand. " All but mesel£ sir," the old man answered, THE squire's legacy. 163 quietly, but with a certain brisk cheerfulness which belonged to him, and did not leave him even on such a day as this. " I didna care for to go, sir. I — I didna care to see the young master's face. I passed the church jest at the time, but didna wait. It wur crammed, I see'd — crammed, with 'undreds as were shut outside — so they wouldna miss one. And th' old master wouldna have minded, cos I was ne'er a disobe- dient servant all his lifetime. He'd sooner I'd be a honest and trusty servant to's son, than have walked in that long posession — in another man's clothes." Kenneth smiled, and the smile grew when he noticed Doris's earnest and prompt assent to this, and the curious intentness with which she studied the old man's hard face. " He is true, Ken," she said, afterwards, when Liath had left the room ; " I can see it." "I dare say, dear. Now, Aunt Joan, you must say when you are ready. There is no fly to be had to-day, so we must walk to the sta- tion ; aud my father is going to stay at Kings- wood all night, so we will start when you choose. We have half an hour before the next train leaves. Shall we go along the turnpike- M2 164 THE squire's legacy. road, or through the park, past the house?" " Not past the house, please." It was Doris who answered ; but, though Miss Joan would have preferred the park, she nodded assent, and they set out along the highway. " It has been a beautiful day ; have you at all enjoyed it, Doris?" Kenneth asked. " No — I think not. Please don't ask me why. It was all sadder than I — expected. But thank you for bringing me, Ken. I know it is my own fault that it was sad." "A funeral," interposed Miss Joan, "is not generally considered a very cheery event." 165 CHAPTER X. " A ND you object to my seeing the paper A myself?" Mr. Bradford had asked that question before, and so, in spite of its repetition, he was quite prepared for Scot Monkton's affirmative ; while the motive, which had faintly dawned upon him from the first, grew stronger and clearer with this second refusal. " But if its substance is to be made public, and it necessarily must if you decide to .act upon it, as you propose " " I not only propose, but am fully determin- ed to act upon it, and at once." The lawyer took up his wine-glass, which for half an hour had remained untouched, and sipped its contents like a true connoisseur. Go where he would, he never tasted such port as the Kingswood port — in defiance of the warn- 166 THE squire's legacy. ing twinges, Mr. Bradford was faithful to his favourite vintage— and as for the dry golden sherry ; and then that Burgundy, which went so freely round this morning, and every drop of which was worth a lawyer's letter — what a pity it all was ! But whether his pity was for the value of the wines, or something which was recalled to him by the flavour, Mr. Bradford did not state in his thoughts. 44 And those are all the particulars in this paper, Mr. Monkton ? " " Shall I repeat them ?" asked Scot ; and the lawyer was keen enough to see that he avoided a direct answer. "On the very journey which — on that last journey my father took — he met a young man who bore such a striking resemblance, in voice as well as face and figure, to his brother Scot, that the likeness haunted him, and — inexplica- bly, as you say it seems to you, but none the less firmly — fixed upon his mind a conviction that during those two years my uncle spent abroad, and — and privately married, he left a son, who is — naturally, as you will say — in poverty." THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 16? " Was the likeness so remarkable that your father felt sure this must be a Monkton, or did it merely serve to fire this train of thought ?" The lawyer asked these questions in his usual business tone of meditative shrewdness, and his eyes were upon the fire — the two gentlemen had just dined together, and the servants had rightly guessed that a fire would remove a little of the gloom of the house to them — but he was still keenly aware of the fact that Scotwa* carefully keeping something from him ; and, knowing so well the honourable, fearless nature of the young man, it was easy for him to resolve that the something kept back related to the late Squire's part in the transaction. That he had, in that dying moment, made a fuller confession to his son, Mr. Bradford had no doubt at all now ; but that young Monkton would ever be tempted to entrust this confession fully to his legal ad- viser, whatever" confidence he might be sup^ posed to place in this legal adviser, and how- ever great a relief it would be to him to place the secret in other and more experienced hands, he had a very strong and impregnable doubt indeed. Easy and pleasant as the young Squire had always been, and always must be, Mr* 168 THE squire's legacy. Bradford understood well the mainspring of his character, and knew that) though he might use every argument his experience could suggest, Scot Monkton, who so plainly saw the right, would pursue it to the end. "There are but two ways for a man to tread," he had said, quietly, after first broaching tins subject to Mr. Bradford, " and I see no by- paths from either. Right and wrong are far enough apart, and the boundary between is clear ; so why should a man hesitate ? He must tread one way. There is no straight and honourable path between." These words the lawyer recalled as he asked his last question, feeling that the son's quiet ignoring of his father's wrong was but a proof that he himself was not to be turned from his own simple, brave decision. "I cannot answer that question with any certainty," he said; "I wish I could. I can only tell you the facts. My father's first request to me as he lay dying — indeed, his only request — was that I should search among the dead for a young man whom he described to me — chiefly by his dress, and the peculiarity of his wearing an overcoat and THE squire's legacy, 169 comforter. I believe — I believe that, if I had brought him word that the man lay dead, this paper would have been burnt by my father's own hand ; and therefore " " Decidedly," put in the lawyer, with quick comprehension, " He felt that if Scot Monkton had left a son at all, that was the man, and that, if that man were dead, you need not be troubled." "Even if dead, he might have a son," said Scot, calmly ; " he must be older than myself." " Tut, tut !" muttered the lawyer, feeling a ridiculous stoppage in his throat. " He have a son to lay claim to Kingswood — the idea is preposterous !" "But the man was not among the dead," said Scot, to whom evidently the other idea was pre- posterous. " The man is living, and, as I need not remind you, Kingswood is his — or at any rate is the property of Sir Monkton's son." " It's all rubbish— all utter folly !" decided Mr. Bradford, filling his wine-glass hurriedly. " But of course, as you are set upon diving to the bottom of this matter, we will institute in- quiries at once. I will send out to-morrow, if you like, to — where was it ?" 170 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. " San Remo, on the French side of the Alps." * Such a place to choose !" " The girl he married was a villager's daughter — I believe." " I'll Bwear it was no marriage at all !" put in Mr. Bradford, angrily* " And you will give up Kingswood for the sake of some low-born French scamp, who will come forward and claim the old name, just to drag it through the mire f Think well, Mr. Monkton, before you decide upon this rash step." "I have thought. There was no need of thought, but it is here constantly," said Scot, dropping for an instant his worn, brave face, and letting it rest upon his hand. " No thought could change that one decision, Mr. Bradford. I shall give up Kingswood to its owner." " If I saw that paper, perhaps a little light might be thrown upon the subject for me," began the lawyer, looking away from his com- panion's face, and uttering the words as if they contained quite a new and natural idea, which had never been propounded and refused before. "I have told you its purport; please let that suffice, because I feel that my father wrote the words for my eyes alone. Indeed," THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 171 Soot added, closing his fingers nervously upon the arm of his chair, " I doubt if you could decipher a word. Remember in what agony he wrote it. Now will you please go over the facts?" But, in the few moments' pause before he did so, the astute old man of the law came swiftly and steadily to one conclusion, and anchored firmly there. Robert Monkton had, years ago, known not only of his brother's marriage in France, but also of his having left an heir. It was only the shock of death which had wrung the confession from him; and Scot, knowing this, would keep that fact a secret — though nothing else. " And he's right enough too," mused the old man ; "for his father's honour is more sacred to him even than his own. I can see how the late Squire was tempted. If he had made public his brother's confession, he would have brought disgrace upon two high families, as Scot Monk- ton had married Lady Emily Stuart then. And, as years went on, was it natural for Robert Monkton to prefer the claim of a child of some low-born Frenchwoman before that of his own son — an honourable English gentleman? No, 172 THE squire's legacy. no ; it was little wonder that the Squire acted as he did, when the power was left so entirely to himself. And now must a vagabond, half- French son of the Monkton who had always been selfish and dissipated, come to turn out the very Monkton who would keep up all the love and dignity of the old name ? Well, perhaps a wise and skilful Providence — always supported by a wise and skilful solicitor — might ordain it otherwise ; and in the meantime no one should know of this possible local earthquake." ** Go over the facts," repeated Mr. Bradford, after very few moments' silence had sufficed to fix the position on his mind. "There are no facts to go over, Mr. Monkton. You say your uncle married in San Remo ; I say he didn't ; and we both agree that the fact shall be decided by the journey of a suitable ambassador. I will do as you wish, and send at once, and I will in person bring you the answer. Possibly I may go over to France myself. It is a question of vital importance, I see, in your mind, and the sooner it is settled the better ; so I shall hope to be down here in a fortnight, with decisive and pleasant tidings, and," with an effort at easy indifference, as he turned slowly to fill his glass, THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 173 <c I hope, after that, we shall never have to dis- cuss the subject again, even over such wine as this. Come, Mr. Monkton, you have not emptied your glass once ; keep me in counten- ance, or I shall never have courage to attack this solace on my return." " I hope you will attack it many times here," said Scot, raising his glass mechanically to his lips ; " but it cannot, of course, be with me, Mr. Bradford. I shall leave Kingswood at once." Down to the floor fell the lawyer's chair, as hastily and angrily he rose and strode up to the fire. " This is rank insanity !" he exclaimed, seizing the poker as if to poke away a little superfluous wrath, but dropping it with a remembrance that he was not in his own office. " Why, Mr. Monkton, are you aware that if your uncle had left a dozen heirs, this estate is yours by right of law ; the highest right in this country or any other, sir — provided always the country is civilised enough to appre- ciate the blessings of lawf Are you aware that you have a firm holding title, and cannot be ejected for anyone! Twenty years' un* disputed possession has given you a good title 174 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. at law and in equity ; and thia property has been yours, undisputed, for nearly ten years longer." « It is not a question of law," said Scot, simply, but the lawyer fancied that the words were even more decided than before, if that <jould be ; " it is a question of conscience with me. " But I say that, in any case, Kings wood is yours. The property has been undisputed for " " Who," asked Scot, "could dispute a pro- perty while he was kept in ignorance of his own name and right? Don't argue it any more, Mr. Bradford; my mind has been made up from the first, and I have decided what to do." " You go abroad, then ?" " Abroad ! What money have I to take me abroad? No ; I have but one possession of my own, all else belongs to the owner of Kingswood. I am going to earn my own living on my own land. You know the old farm that Harris left me ? He gave it to me because he felt it ought to be part of the Kingswood estate— so it can eventually — but he made no mention in hisi will of its being so, and, instead of leaving it to. my father, he left it especially to me as a lacL THE squire's legacy. 175 How little " — with a short, swift laugh — " he thought it would so soon be my only estate and home !" " Great heavens ! You don't mean to go and vegetate at the Black Birches ?" " No, not to vegetate, if I can help it," said Scot, the old spirit in his voice showing that no subject save that one which touched his father's honour, and a wrong done by one of his name, could weigh him down in his manly strength and courage ; "if I did, I should soon bring it to nothing, for the farm is not the richest one, I know. Never mind that : it is my own, and it is ready for me—even famished. I intend to go to-morrow, for I have defrauded another man long enough. But there is one thing more I wish to tell you, if you have patience to hear. You saw perhaps among the people here to-day, a stranger, a Frenchman really, though he has as much English about him as French. He has been to me this afternoon to say he is possessed of a family secret of ours, which he wants me to buy from him. He would have had the transaction confined to himself and me, but, as the plea* was put forth professedly for my sake, you may guess what weight that proposal had. If he 176 THE squire's legacy. knows anything of those two years of my uncle's life, the information may be of value to ns, and you, I know, will be generous to him — either on my behalf, or on behalf of the real owner of Kingswood." " Of what nature does he pretend the secret to be r The lawyer was standing before the fire, facing Scot, and, though his head was bent, his eyes shone clearly from beneath their bushy brows. "I almost forget whether he described its nature at all," the young man answered, look- ing up in wonder as the lawyer's change of tone betrayed an eager interest in this intelli- gence ; " only I know he represented how pru- dent it would be for me to keep the matter in my own hands, and not consult " " T. & C. Bradford, eh?" put in the lawyer, with one of his rare, grim smiles. u A prudent fellow, too, on that point, is Monsieur Philippe Sourdet." " You know him ! Why, Bradford, you know everybody I" "Everybody. Tell me again what threats or promises were held out to the Squire of THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 177 Kingswood by Monsieur Philippe Sourdet." " You utter his name almost as if you relish- ed it," smiled Scot. " I conceived an unutter- able repugnance to the man." " Did youf How curious ! I enjoyed him. I like fresh studies — no matter whether among men or reptiles." " When he told me I had better buy the secret to keep as a secret, I had no further word to say. I want no secret to keep. If he can help us in our search, for Heaven's sake let him do it, and hasten the right we want to do. If not, of what use is it to know his unavailing secret ?" " Of what use indeed?" muttered Mr. Brad- ford, reflectively. " Did he accept your decision as decisive?" " No, he returns here to-morrow — I think he said so as he left me." "Good; and he possesses information which you will not buy ?" " Which I have no money to buy," put in Scot. " I suppose I may buy it for you, on condi- tion that I give it up to your protigS, the new heir, if valuable to him— eh, Mr. Monkton ?" VOL. I. N 178 THE squire's legacy. " But you cannot know until you have bought it on his terms ; and I should fancy that, like myself you will refuse to more in the dark." " What ! He must receive the money first V 9 Scot looked up, once more surprised at the tone of keen, amused intelligence. " Yes, those are his conditions ; and he asks ten thousand pounds — quite a trifle to ask from a penniless man." " A mere trifle, indeed — a mere trifle — a mere trifle," repeated the lawyer, deep in thought ; " but a man who insists upon payment before delivery of his goods has seldom any goods worth delivery. That's my experience. Now, Mr. Monkton, 111 say good night ; I have a few things to think over in my own room. Leave me to see Monsieur Sourdet to-morrow*" " Thank you," was the reply ; u I dare say I shall have left here before he comes. No, I am not going to bed yet. My time is so short in the old home now that I cannot waste any of it ; and sleep has been an utter stranger to me lately. Presently she will be an old friend again; for don't they say the sleep of the labourer is sweet ? Don't look compassionate, Bradford; my hands are strong enough; I THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 179 was the Oxford stroke, you know ; and, as for muscle, why, ' the muscles of his brawny arms are strong as iron bands.' " "A poor mask!" muttered the lawyer to himself, as he went moodily to his own cham- ber. "I don't like that flash of indifference and that ridiculous reference to the blacksmith, while the young fellow's heart is bleeding. And little wonder ! To lose his father — a father whom he loved so well ; and his family honour — always so dear to him ; and his property and home — a home I believe it wrings his heart to leave ; to lose all at one blow ! It's enough to shake the strongest principle, And make the bravest and noblest fellow stagger. Still, how firm he is in his decision ! Eingswood will be shut up" — the lawyer had paused at a win- dow on the staircase, and was looking out, as if be could have seen the wide and rich estate — "and the young Squire will mould and crumble into a decayed gentleman and in- solvent farmer, down in that damp, un- healthy hole by the river. Pish — not he! Before the year's out, we'll have him back at Kingswood, troubling his conscience no more about mythical heirs, but just taking the goods 180 THE squire's legacy. the gods have always provided him, with his lips sealed for ever on the subject of that re- probate uncle of his. So the romance will end, as all romances end in this work-a-day world of ours." ******* « Scot !" No answer. The young man was pacing the room slowly, just as he had paced it through the brief narrative he had been telling Miss "Windish. He had not intended her to know of his projected departure from Kings wood until the next day ; but, as she had come in to him then and questioned him, he had told her, dreading, more than he could say, the tears he knew would follow, and the dismal diving into his motives and intentions. But that faint call of hers he did not even hear, as he walked slowly to and fro, like a prisoner who is tired of being motionless within his cell, and yet has little strength to walk. « Scot P No answer still, and so she rose and met him, and stood before him with her eyes full of tears, as he had known they would be, and her voice querulous, as he had felt it must be. THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 181 "Going to live at the Black Birches, Scot? That wretched farm on the river, which old Harris left you only as a little adjunct to Kingswood ? Going there, Scot — you ?" " I, Aunt Michal. Please put it as cheerfully as you can — in your thoughts of me, at any rate. In reality I shall not mind it at all." a You," she repeated again, faintly, and gaz- ing aghast up into the young man's face; " you, bred up in such refinement, and so fond of— of all that riches bring ! You, a scholar and a gentleman !" " I, Aunt Michal " — Scot's hands, kind and gentle, fell softly on Miss Michal's shoulders and his bearded lips went warmly down upon her twitching mouth — "I can be a gentleman there as well as here. But, Aunt Michal, tell me one thing, honestly and candidly, as I have told you this. Have you quite enough to live comfortably and easily upon, away from Kings- wood f Of course I would not have asked this question unnecessarily ; but now I should like to feel sure." " I've enough, Scot," answered Miss Windish, curtly, and without a suspicion of tears in her voice now. " Tve truth, and honour, and affeo- 182 THE squire's legacy. tion to live upon ; that's plenty, isn't it, for a solitary, unattractive woman like me ? I've all these, Scot — at least, some one else has them for me— and I intead to live upon then*-at the Black Birches." 183 CHAPTER XI. MR. BERNARD LEVEY had not yet return- ed from Kingswood, where, in a Bond Street sable rait* be had officiated as one of Mr. Monkton's mourners, comfortably convinced that his new barouche— on winch the armorial bear ings were so large and radiant — was by far the most stylish equipage in the line, and certain-* ly must have cost more than any other. What a contrast to that old rickety yellow coach of the Earl of Edent ! Why, some of the bystanders had said that thak had never been relined since — empty as now — it had been sent from Edent, thirty miles away, to follow the funerals of the Earl's daughter and her young husband within six months of each other. Bernard was still doing his best to bring himself and his black suit before the notice of Scot Monkton, and deliver hie neatly prepared speech of condolence, 184 THE squire's legacy. when his sisters, at home, suddenly awoke to the consciousness that they had been sitting opposite each other for an hour, in an uninter- rupted reverie. The morning-room at Osborne House — the room in which the sisters always sat when they were alone — was so vivid in its colour- ing, and so unshaded in its windows, that it could hardly be conducive to reverie ; but still there was the fact — Rose and Violet had been musing for an hour, sitting opposite each other at the high bow-window, through which was to be seen a gorgeous diorama of flower-beds of every size and shape, laid out in that strik- ing and original style in which nature is wooed and coaxed into an imitation of art, and the lavish beauty of Heaven's most wonderful gifts is cramped in its arrangement until it resem- bles, and is proudly named after, the produce of our ribbon-looms. Gazing upon the scene, though without seeming to see it, the sisters had sat through this long silence, when, as if by some magnetic influence, their eyes met, and they each woke to the absurdity of having spent an hour so un- characteristically — for their thoughts were not THE squire's legacy. 185 apt to wander far beyond their own immediate acts and surroundings. " I was very tired this afternoon ; were you, Vi!" So Miss Levey broke the spell of silence, smiling a little, and raising her hands languidly to fold them behind her head upon a braided cushion, which certainly could never have been manufactured with any intention of soothing the human cheek. * " Bernard is late," observed Violet, as she rose from her couch, and tossed back the long train of her dress with an action slightly suggestive of the stage. "I'm sick of this silence, Rose." Very sick indeed she must have been, to care to break it with such a strain upon her own voice and her listener's ear, as followed her rapid touch upon the piano. Violet Levey was one of those singers who always seem to feel their way up to a note by the performance of a dumb scale. It may be the requisite inhalation of breath for the telling upper tone, but the effect is excruciatingly wheezy, and gives the listener a painful sensation, in no way akin to the pure delicious pleasure music can give. 186 v THE squire's legacy. But it wa« not became her sister's upper note had just pierced her ear that Rose Levey inter- rupted her. " Vi," she said, as if in continuation of a pre- vious conversation, "be sure you hint to Bernard that he should bring Mr.Monkton here often. Now that he has lost fab father, he will be more ready to come ; bat don't leave all this to me to say. Bernard is so suspicious." " Of you more than of me ?" inquired Violet, exhibiting for a moment her double row of white teeth, as she rose and settled herself more com- fortably on the music-stool. Rose had, in a high frame beside her, a gor- geous combination of dahlias in woolwork, and at this moment she drew it towards her, and bent all her energies to put in the needle at the right spot ; but Violet's narrow, wide-open eyes saw crimson in her sister's cheeks which was no reflection from the woollen dahlias* and she smiled again as she ran one large white band softly and chromatically down the pianow "Being shut oat now for a time from all gaiety," continued Bose, bringing her needle back with a Measured deliberation which argued but poorly for the conclusion of the great work THE squire's legacy. 187 within an ordinary lifetime, " Mr. Monkton will be thrown, as it were, upon his neighbours* He will not go to London, of course, and he will have no visitors at Eingswood. During this time we can, if we manage cleverly, be come very close friends. Don't you see this, Vi?" "Of course I see," said Violet; "and of course I'll speak to Bernard when you do. But he needs no incentive to cultivate Scot Monkton. Why, he would spend a year in indefatigable cultivation if he could be sure that, at the end of the time, he and Mr. Monkton would be spoken of— here and in London— as chums. Didn't he unwittingly confess as much the other night ? And as for the prospect of his marrying' one of us, why, Bernard would literally dance for joy -danig beinghis fevourite oLpatio*, I may as well use that figure of speech as any other. So don't worry, Rose ; we're all agreed. Bernard will never think you mean it more than I do, or than he does." " I don't see," said Rose, reflectively, patting with her forefinger the one stitch she had com- pleted, " why he should not eventually choose one of us. We are friends and neighbours, and 188 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. he need not be ashamed of either of us as mistress of Kings wood." " You put it with a modesty not too charac- teristic," interposed Violet, laughing. " Why don't you say what other people say — that we are the most stylish-looking girls in the county? Style is the only thing, after all, which would influence an aristocrat like Scot Monkton. I hope so at any rate, and I mean to try," she added, accompanying the last word with a clashing and not too melodious chord. " No offence, Rose, if I say I have a greater chance than you ; because I sing, you see, and Mr. Monkton is so fond of music." "He never asks you to sing," put in the elder sister, with a little excusable spite. " Do you suppose, my dear, that you hear all that he says to me?" inquired Violet, start- ing now into the symphony of a high Italian bravura, in which her soul delighted. "Are there no moments in our existence in which he can make observations unheard by you ?" "He never cares to make them," rejoined Miss Levey, sturdily. " I should give up all idea of him, if I felt he did. I" — her cheeks colour- ing a little, and her breath quickening — "I THE squire's legacy. 189 would not rival you in earnest, Vi ; but now, while it's doubtful, and we've equal chances, it's all fair." "All fair," rejoined Violet, with a nod, "and we shall manage it somehow, one of us. If it is I, you must hide your jealousy by some means, my dear, and congratulate me and him. If it is you, I will smother mine, and bring poor Captain Gresford up to a proposal. That's Bernard's step." When Mr. Levey entered the room, he went up to the piano, to set his sister right in a trill of astonishing power. But there are some in- dignities against which human nature, rises in prompt revolt, and prominent among these is the lecturing of a brother. Violet rose majestic- ally from her seat, and beckoned to her sister. " Come away, Rose ; Bernard wants to practise his scales." Young Levey laughed good-humouredly. Both he and Rose had learnt to receive quietly and indifferently the domineering of their younger sister, and, as their natures were but little less shallow and self-engrossed, this was neither difficult nor painful to them. "What a stupid temper Bernard was in!" 190 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. said Violet. (This kind of remark is generally made by the one who has excited the temper). " I hope he will be pleasanter by dinner-time, because I want to hear about Kingswood." The sisters had reached Violet's dressing- room, and she had brusquely spoken out in the hearing of her maid ; but Rose passed on into her own room and shut the door. She felt too angry with her sister to linger with her, and, beyond that, her thoughts were busy and en- grossed. What plan they framed that evening, Violet, whose projects were so similar, could well con- jecture ; but what the maturing of those plans was to cost her, Violet could never guess. a It would be different for Vi." — Rose, in her green silk dress, flounced to the waist behind, but tight enough in front to make a satisfactory balance of economy, was taking her last look in the glass, and, with one conclusive argu- ment, bringing her thoughts baok from an en- grossing theme. — " She would be quite as con- tent, after a time, to be the wife of that in- sipid CSaptain Gresford — more ?content perhaps, for she could dictate to turn, and he would be submissive. Of course the idea of living at Kings- THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 191 wood, and being the great lady of the county, and — and Mr. Monkton's wife, is everything to her now ; but the only meaning it has for her is a grand marriage, a splendid home, and the jealousy of other women. While I" — Rose's hand closed tightly as it lay upon the table, while she almost uttered these words aloud — " I love him. I used to feel only what Violet feels ; but now my whole heart is set upon him." 192 CHAPTER XII. THE effect upon Mr. Bradford of his interview with Philippe Sourdet, on the day suc- ceeding Mr. Monkton's funeral, was but to con- firm him in the opinion he had formed on first hearing of the Frenchman's proposal to Scot. Monsieur Sourdet would only reveal the family secret he held, after he should have pocketed, safely and securely, the trifling sum of ten thousand pounds, which he had fixed upon as its equivalent. Monsieur Sourdet de- clined to relinquish his information on the chance of receiving only what the lawyer should consider it to be worth ; and Monsieur Sourdet smiled and gesticulated pleasantly at the notion of betraying such excessive mental juvenility. "Plainly," argued Mr. Bradford to himself, studying the strongly-marked countenance op- posite him, " the information held by Monsieur THE squire's legacy. 193 Philippe Sourdet is of less value to us than ten thousand pounds, and, being so, is of less value than ten thousand pence." "Plainly," be argued to Monsieur Philippe Sourdet, with an essentially English tranquillity, " we need waste no more time over this child's play." Of this interview the English lawyer never thought it worth while to speak after he had dismissed it with a few words of hearty con- tempt ; but the French adventurer mused over it a good deal before he woke to the conviction that with an Englishman threats are always far more efficacious than promises — had he not found it so in Australia, and was there any doubt that Englishmen were Englishmen all the world over? So Philippe Sourdet walked slowly up to Wakeley's cottage on the slope, and thought it all over quietly there, his eyes half closed beneath the heavy arched brows, and his hand, hardened within the palm though sleek and smooth without, guiding itself unerringly, with- out the aid of vision, to and fro between his lips and the slowly-replenished glass upon the table. VOL. I. O 194 THE SQUIBB S LEGACY. The man did not bear the hopeless, unmis- takable stamp of the confirmed drunkard, but that habits of intemperance were not unwel- come to him was a fact which, though he was conscious of it, and guarded scrupulously against its betrayal, must have been patent to the dullest comprehension. Sourdet was alone in the cottage kitchen, and, before he moved, the Dutch clock, for the second time, ptruck the hour, with the usually lively effort of a Dutch clock to do its duty, ending with a brisk stroke which bore no evi- dence of being the last, and left the listener still in an expectant condition. Monsieur Sourdet raised his eyes slowly during the operation, but that one long thought behind them was stationary still, and had no connection with the words which idly passed his lips as they broadened into their heavy smile. "As a time-keeper, you are too fast, my friend — a little, just a little; but, as an article of virtu, you are irreproachable. Your preponder- ance of face is true artistic symmetry, and yourlankiness — or I may even say stringinesa — of form is an elegant conclusion. Good! Now, I THE squire's legacy. 1 95 if you told the truth, you would be perfect, but unfortunately you* moral perceptions are alow ; and five minutes are of value to us poor mor- tal time-keepers, especially — on some occa- sions — such as — this." Speaking thus, half aloud to himself, the smile gradually leaving his swarthy face, and giving place to a look of concentrated calcula- tion, he drew a pocket-book from his pocket, and wrote on one of the blank leaves. Then, cutting the leaf out with methodical precision, he laid it down upon the table with a half- sovereign upon it, and the tumbler over it as ballast. "That will do. The note and the money will be observed by whichever enters first. If it is my devoted and sober friend himself, he will pocket the little coin with a smile upon his angelic countenance ; but, if it is his pretty wife, probably — sad fete — her tender heart will break with anguish. My absence will cloud her otherwise sunny sky, and bring her smooth brown locks in sorrow to the grave. Poor thing— poor thing ! She is not a bad specimen of a drunkard's wife. For such a fate I could almost be a drunkard myself— almost — almost. o2 196 THE squire's legacy. Now is that all until, after this little trip of mine, we meet again — we three dear friends ?" He stood for an instant looking round the cottage kitchen, and then took up his hat and put it on. " I am glad to know his purpose, and I am glad to have had this opportunity of making my own plans in peace. The old man, clever as he thinks himself, will be but a stranger in San Remo." And with these words he turned hastily to leave the cottage ; but when he had passed the door he subsided into his usual heavy, dragging step, and, like a veritable idler, " whistled as he went." It was not until he had taken his seat in the London train that he once more put a thought into words, and, with his hard and heavy smile, muttered — " So far well ; and, even if the whole journey is wasted, it is not very likely that the young Squire will hold out long. He does not know yet what it is to be poor, and his first lesson will be enough, Til warrant. It isn't as if he simply gave up a big house for a little one. Why, I could not count, ' between here and THE squire's legacy. 197 town, the things he would forfeit. There's his town house as well as this, and his trips abroad just where and when he chooses. There's his stud — by far the finest hunters in the county, they say, and he so devoted to sport ; and there's his drag and team — haven't I noticed it conspicuous on every race-course for these two years I've been in England? There are all these pleasures for him to give up, not to speak of his clubs, his dinners, his dances, his drives, his rides "— more and more brisk grew Monsieur Sourdet's tones as the enumeration continued — " his opera-boxes, his flirtations amongst the upper ten ; all these, no less than the luxe and indol- ence of a rich young favourite. Bless you, no, he won't hold out for long ! " And, with this consolatory reflection, Mon- sieur Sourdet settled himself for a further mental calculation. When Oliver Wakeley returned home that afternoon, he found his wife sitting in her favourite seat at the window, and on the table lay the memorandum, with the coin upon it. " What's this ?" he asked, taking up the paper 198 THE squire's legacy. to answer himself, while Anna went quietly on with her work. " Oh, I see — the furriner's off for a bit, and this is his pay. Well, he might ha' paid wnss. You'll own that now, my girl, eh ? " The little gold coin had evidently put Oliver into a good humour. "It'll save me bothering for work for a few days ; but I won- der you hadn't pocketed it — ye're generally sharp enough after the tin. D'ye think it bad money, eh ?" "Yes," she said, dropping her hands for a moment as she looked out from the open win- dow ; u yes, I think it so — bad money, Oliver ; and I would not touch it if I were dying of starvation." 199 CHAPTER XIII. WHEN Mr. Bradford left Kingswood that morning, he had fully decided to go himself to San Remo, and he determined to spend only one day in London before starting. An hour later than the usual hour for closing his office he held an interview there with a skilled detective of whose services he had often availed himself; and Kenneth was still at work, preparing notes for his father. That night the detective left London for the little French town on the Italian frontier, and the next day Mr. Bradford took his ticket for Paris, and in an easy, leisurely manner travelled on to San Remo. And when, upon the stairs of the hotel, he met a quiet, gentlemanly* looking young fellow, who greeted him with a " Bon jour, Monsieur" uttered in his throat as 200 THE squire's legacy. only a Frenchman can utter it, he answered the salutation with an impatient English " Good morrow," and walked on, and inquired who was that jabbering young fellow who spoke before he was spoken to. " The young Monsieur is an artist," tte gargon answered, with a swift and characteristic motion of his fingers as if they held a pencil ; " and he is in San Remo now for the purpose of sketch- ing a few of the old houses. There are curious old houses in San Remo — but Monsieur will be going to see the town." Monsieur thought he would. And when, in his saunter, he came across this young French- man, in a broad-brimmed white hat, sitting with his back to a cottage door, sketching an in- artistic building opposite, and listening the while to the merry patois of a young woman who sat on the doorstep near him, and looked on at his work with idle knitting-needles in her hand, the lawyer stood a moment to look too, and then passed on, impenetrable, to smoke a cigar in the narrow divan of Monsieur Alfred Leclos hard by. Monsieur Louis Leclos, who, according to the English version of his sign — translated for the THE squire's legacy. 201 benefit of stray English — employed his time in " watch reparations," noticed that his brother stood at the door of his boutique with an in- telligent Englishman, and that the Englishman could evidently appreciate a San Remo cigar. So— there being no important " reparation " in hand just then — Monsieur Louis, as a matter of conscience, crossed to assist them, equally to smoke and to gossip. That evening the grey-haired English visitor, too tired with his sauntering about San Remo to care to read, and because it was now so many — ah, quite thirty — years since he was here before, invited the landlord of the hotel to share his Bordeaux, and to bewail with him the changes which these thirty years had witnessed. And the young French artist dined abroad, at a little corner restaurant, near the scene which his half-finished sketch had probably endeared to him, and, after his solitary and cheerfully imbibed bottle of " Val de Penas," strolled out beyond the boundaries of the town, until he reached a road-side cross, where he fell in naturally and pleasantly among a group of idlers, and where, though he attached himself gallantly to the cottage girl to whom he had 202 THE squire's legacy. whispered so many soft speeches that day, he chatted with others too, until they all felt as if they had an old friend among them, and con- gratulated themselves on their discernment when he told them, regretfully, that he had been quite a boy when he last looked upon that cross. Yes, he must have been away a long time ; they knew it by his accent. Monsieur l'Artiste must be very glad to see San Remo again. Delighted ! Monsieur l'Artiste was delighted to see again this spot so beautiful. The only drop of bitterness in Monsieur 1' Artiste's spark- ling cup of joy was the absence of so many of the well-beloved of his youth. "Ah!" The listeners, old and young, lifted either their hands, or brows, or shoulders, at this melancholy reflection, and briskly and cheer- fully did their best to enlighten — and to mystify — Monsieur l'Artiste on the San Remo of his boyhood ; some guessing it at ten years ago, some at twenty, and some of the elder ones going comfortably back for thirty years. Returning late to his hotel that night, and entering it in his smiling, desultory fashion, the THE squire's legacy. 203- artist saw that his landlord and the English visitor were still sitting together in the other- wise deserted cafL In his cheery, sociable way,, he joined them at the small round table ; and even when mine host had risen and retired, the two visitors sat and chatted still — but in rather a lower tone now, neither impeded nor hurried by a word of French. Next morning, for the purpose, perhaps, of better digesting his unusual breakfast, Mr. Brad- ford walked out to a cottage which stood alone on the outskirts of the town. It chanced to be the cottage Monsieur 1' Artiste had yesterday selected to paint ; but the lawyer, wrapped in contemplation of the mountains, might easily have been unaware of the coincidence. He did not pause at the door the first time he passed it ; his head was bent as if in thought, and his hand went involuntarily to the pocket where he carried his note-book ; but slowly he drew away the hand, empty still. There was no need just now to refer to those notes. " The substance of them I have by memory clearly enough — clearly enough, what there is, but too little at present. Let me see. Thirty- two years ago, a family of the name of Sourdei 206 THE SQUIRE'S legacy. neither a rebellions nor a chilly reception could have done. " I was told," he said, quite at his ease again after the first few moments of surprise, " that you had various birds for sale, and, as I am anxious to meet with a real native of Dauphiny to be a memento of the pleasant tour I have made, I thought you might be able to oblige me. So the old lawyer, quiet and far-seeing, began the interview, which he kept up for more than an hour, gliding from birds to trees and scenery, and then to the town itself, its houses and their inhabitants. "I remember," he said, coolly and boldly- striking the nail on its head, " when this old house was the home of a pious Cur6, whose sermons — Sourdet, ah, his name struck me at that moment ! You of course could not remem- ber him V What Mr. Bradford had so skilfully avoided saying about the Cure's sermons never was inquired into. The woman who occupied P&re Sourdet's house, evidently recollected Pfere Sourdet well, and was willing to retail all she THE squire's legacy. 207 recollected. So Mr. Bradford, criticising the birds the while, as they chirped and pecked and hopped in their tiny cages, listened with quiet interest, and only put in his idle questions when the speaker made any decided pause, All that he had noted so carefully she either asserted or verified ; and then she added items which the English lawyer — always suspicious in his shrewdness — sifted with intense care. She had known Sophie Sourdet well ; had been her comrade at school forty years ago. Sophie had been always a belle, but a vain and wilful one, deserving her hard fate. No, she had never seen the gentleman who had carried away Sophie-die was in Vienna at that time; but she remembered Sophie's return with her baby boy, and how she was changed, and how swiftly, after that, other changes followed, and in a few years' time her uncle, if he had been living, would not have known her. Dead? Yes, poor P&re Sourdet had died suddenly — killed, some of the San Remo folk had said, by the last letter Sophie wrote him, just before she herself came creeping home, so 208 the squire's legacy. changed. Philippe Sourdet was living here, though, and she came — as was but natural — to her brother. One day, soon after Sophie's return, she remembered an Englishwoman sitting with them, and telling them about a large house there was in London for babies who had no fathers — or as good as none — and she had noticed how eager Sophie was in listening, and what numbers of questions she asked. After that, one day Sophie and her baby were missing, and, when Sophie came back to San Eemo a month afterwards, she came without the boy. From that day she had never men- tioned him, and had left off caring about her- self, and so — as was but natural — had soon let carelessness finish the work that sorrow and mortification had begun. Mr. Bradford, offering his forefinger for bait to a vicious little goldfinch, and looking with concern into his very uninteresting little round eyes, inquired if his companion could recollect what she had heard that house in London called. Such an excellent institution it must be, that he should like to hear more of it. No; she had not the name in her memory, THE squire's legacy. 209 though possibly she might recognise it if she heard it. It was the — something. Mr. Bradford, screwing his lips into a whistle for the benefit of the goldfinch, thought over the subject for a few minutes, and then suggest- ed the National Gallery. No, no ; certainly she should have remem- bered that without difficulty. It was a more English name. "The Polytechnic?" No. If it had been Polly anything, she should not have forgotten, because her own name was Polly. " Then you are not French V 9 No ; she was by birth an Australian. Mr. Bradford raised his head, to examine a puny canaiy which tried to assert itself above him, and then he turned to the woman with a new idea slowly dawning upon him. " Do you think Sophie Sourdet took her child to a house called The Foundling ?" The hard face relaxed in prompt assent. Cer- tainly that was it. The Foundling, of course I She wondered she had not recalled it without assistance. " At that house," Mr. Bradford said, smiling VOL. I. P 210 THE squire's legacy. at her pleasure, "they receive orphans and de- serted children." Yes — surely yes; and they had received Sophie Sourdet's boy. " But* generally " — the lawyer said this com- posedly, as if he would have liked, if possible, to set her mind utterly at rest, and was willing to spare a few moments for that generous pur- pose-" the authorities there, who so pitifully adopt the children, like to have some token with them, no matter how trifling, so that it may serve to identify the children afterwards* Does Madame know what little token Sophie Sourdet left with her baby t" No ; Sophie had not mentioned it. "Probably not — most probably not," he as- sented, readily. " But were none of the little knicknacks the poor girl possessed, missing when she died ?" Another sudden light illumined the woman's face. She recollected one thing. Sophie had had a little book — a diary, it seemed — and some of the leaves had been torn out during the time Sophie had been in England; and on one, she remembered, had been fastened a little photograph of the baby's father. THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 211 Could it be that Sophie had left these with her baby? " Hardly," said the lawyer. The intense in- difference in his tone was noticeable, and his willing informant resented it a little. " Besides, would the baby's mother have left with him the only likeness she possessed of her lover ?" " No ; Sophie had another, in a little locket which she wore all her life." " And afterwards !" " Afterwards," was the answer, " it lay here, with other possessions of Sophie's, nntil claimed by her brother, on his return from Australia two years ago." "Her brother — the Monsieur Philippe Sour- det whom you have mentioned V "He had all the papers which Sophie left, and whioh he said were of immense value to the family of Sophie's husband." A glance so shrewd and bright shot from under the lawyer's bushy brows, that it was well he had flashed it only upon the diminutive canary, who had not spirit enough to mistake it for a darting ray of sunlight, and so drew no one's attention to it. a Monsieur Philippe Sourdet, you say, pos- P2 212 THE squire's legacy. Besses papers of value, which were formerly his sister's ?" " Papers of immense value — yes." "And Monsieur Sourdet is now in England V 9 " Tes ; and if the English gentleman wishes to see the papers, he should seek out Monsieur Philippe, and prevail upon him to give them up — always provided it was to benefit the family of Sophie's lover, whose name Philippe had probably by this time discovered, as when he left San Bemo two years ago he had vowed to trace him by his photograph, being well aware he was one of the grandees of England." "But why," asked the lawyer, fixing his keen eyes searchingly upon the woman's face, but speaking easily still, " should you imagine that I have any interest in this young man, whoever he may have been ? And how, above all, can you suppose I should care for any papers held by the girl's brother ? If he wishes to sell them, as probably he does, he will doubt* less apply in the right quarter. I felt interest- ed in* the story — thoroughly so — and I am obliged to you for entertaining me. Now about the bird, if you please." So had ended this interview, and Mr. Brad- the squike's legacy. 218 ford went thoughtfully back to his hotel, show- ing a marked falling off in his admiration of the quaint buildings, and very nearly forgetting to join Monsieur Alfred Leclos in his doorway; and keep up his reputation as a judge of a good cigar. Monsieur Louis was thoroughly devoted to a " reparation" just then, and so had strength of mind to deny himself the pleasure of girding his apron about his waist, and taking a brief smoke upon his brother's step. Meanwhile the French artist had been as idle over his sketch as he had been indefatigable) over his love-making, and before the sun shone from its meridian straight down upon the val- ley—as it had been for hours shining on the snow-capped peaks — the young Frenchwoman was leading him — tame and willing as the pet goat upon her other side — to and fro through old archways, and round and round old towers, and in and out of old chapels. And in one of these, in which they found that one P&re Al- phonse Sourdet had for forty years preached to the auditoire — Monsieur F Artiste — who had such a ravishing way of saying charming things, and such a smile, and such boots ! — could yet aggravate her by wasting the delicious time in 214 THE squire's legacy. turning over mouldy papers — ugh ! — and in talking to old men -who hung about these places — old men, forsooth, when he might have been talking to a young girl ! " But, my cherished " — so Monsieur 1' Artiste, with his ravishing smile, answered this pouting remark — "we are learning what formalities are necessary to make a man and a maiden into husband and wife — you comprehend ?" She comprehended, with cheeks of unmis- takable tint ; and he, with half of his attention henceforth bestowed upon her, proceeded in his leisurely and mouldy search. Early in the evening he returned alone to the hotel, and bowed with a pleasant smile to the elderly English gentleman, whom he passed as he walked to his own little table in the cafL Presently he looked up from the paper he was reading, and addressed the lawyer. " As an Englishman, sir — the only English- man present, if I mistake not — you will be in- terested in this Parliamentary squabble. Stay, — I will bring you the paper." He had left the paper in Mr. Bradford's hand, and was back in his seat before the other guests recognised who had been addressed ; but with THE squire's legacy. 215 the newspaper he had left a few words written on a card, and when Mr* Bradford held the sheet before him, and brought his glasses down the column scientifically, these were the only words he read : — "I have proved the marriage, and have copies. Dates tally exactly with your informa- tion, and with the rumours here. I await your further instructions." Mr. Bradford's further instructions were just forming themselves in his head, when the wo- man from Sourdet's cottage — who had, accord- ing to promise, brought to the hotel the bird which he had purchased — asked if she might speak to him for a minute. The lawyer an- swered the request by joining her in the hall, and taking up his hat to show himself ready and willing to accompany her, but by no means willing to converse with her there. " It is a pity to have come before you had heard what I had to tell, sir," she said, in a stiff, measured tone, as if rehearsing words of the meaning of which she was a little uncertain. " You might not think it worth while to come then. But I wanted to tell you that after you had left me to-day I remembered a man — an 216 THE squire's legacy. old man — here in San Remo, who knows a about the Sourdet family. If you are anxious to learn the rest of the story I told you, I will show you -where he lives." Without any evidence of the satisfaction this idea gave him, and with still a counter-current of his innate suspicion, Mr. Bradford answered, coolly, that he might as well go and see the old man — if he lived near. So near he lived that the woman paused even while he spoke, and, without a word, pointed to a house beside them, with a door high up in the outer wall, and reached by a flight of wooden steps. " He lives there," she said. "He is a Swiss, and very old. He lies in a half-darkened room ; but you'll see enough to talk. He is very infirm and decrepit, but his mind is strong enough, and his memory clear. Never mind waiting at the door for his answer ; walk straight in." Mr. Bradford raised his hat courteously as the woman curtseyed, and then he mounted the steps, and knocked at the door to which he had been directed. Without waiting for an invitation, he opened it, and entered a room which, when he had closed the door behind him, THE squire's legacy. 217 seemed all in darkness. But he had been pre- pared for this ; so he stood for a few moments with his eyes closed, and then opened them and looked round upon his surroundings. It was a clean, barely-furnished room, lighted only by one high and closely-curtaitfed window, and in one corner, on a low bed covered by a vivid patchwork quilt, was a man with long white hair, and a deathly face, more than half wrapped in bandages of two or three colours. Succinctly, and without preamble, as if he had no wish to make this interview longer by one moment than it need be, Mr. Bradford told what the woman had said to him, and asked if it was true. "If what's true?" the old man asked, his voice coming weak and muffled from the bed- clothes. Again Mr. Bradford explained, briefly and distinctly ; and then the old man rose a little in unwonted excitement, and his voice was less feeble and unintelligible. "The Sourdets? I knew them all — uncle, nephew, and niece ; niece's husband, and niece's son — I knew them all. I have papers which Sophie and her uncle left me, telling me never 218 the squire's legacy. to part with them blindly. They knew their value ; they knew whose family they ought to go into, and they left them in trust with me." " I will buy them from you." The lawyer said this in his usual business tone, bending forward towards the bed as he sat beside it, and gazing — as he naturally would — into the face of his companion. " You will buy them ?" echoed the old man, falling back to his old position, and losing a little of his marked patois. "Very well; it signifies little to me. Are you of Monsieur Monkton's family ?" If the feeble old invalid had risen suddenly from the bed, a giant in size and strength, Mr. Bradford could not have been more thoroughly taken by surprise ; yet so successfully had long years of experience schooled the English lawyer to hide all emotion that no one could have guessed how the mention of Mr. Monkton's name had struck him. " Monkton !" he repeated, with an expression only of quiet thought upon his face. " We must be speaking of two different men. I had heard that you knew something of theL young Englishman who left here with Mademoiselle THE squire's legacy. 219 Sourdet, thirty-two years ago ; his name, as far as I have learned, was Scot — Bobert Scot, I think they have told me." " Scot was his Christian name," said the old man, meeting the lawyer's steady gaze. " The name he hid from us here in San Bemo was Monkton. There are hundreds of men you could blind with your cool practised manner, but not me. Could I have the documents in my keeping, and not know the real names of man and wife and son ? There's another man who knows them too — a man in England " — a long fit of suppressed coughing interrupted the old man here, but Mr. Bradford was patient, and sat and waited for its cessation, when the bandages were pulled once more about the jaws and mouth, as if to keep every breath of air away ; " he is Sophie Sourdet's brother, and he has the power to claim the papers from me when he will. He intends to hush it all up, if the Monktons will make it worth his while — at least, so he told me before he left." There was a pause here, as if the old man's breath were failing him. Mr. Bradford, in his usual erect attitude, with one arm across the back of the chair, sat watching him. It may 220 THE squire's legacy. bave been that he feared the old man might sink before he had heard all he meant to hear, so closely now did his eyes hold him. " He told you so before he left ?" " Yes, yes," was the faint, disjointed reply, " he told me so. For a certain sum, he said, he would give up the letters and certificates, everyone, that there might be a peaceable end to the matter. He doesn't want to make mis- chief in a rich family, he said, and Sophie's son had no claim upon him, so he'd put it out of his power to disturb the heir to a fine estate, if he could get some slight recompense for all this." " Such as ten thousand pounds !" " I don't think," mumbled the old man, with a renewed but slighter attack of coughing, " that he ever told me how much he should think it worth to the Monktons. That's not much. If he put it at that, you'd better close the bargain while you can — always supposing you belong to the family." "And yourself?" inquired Mr. Bradford. " What power have you, if Philippe Sourdet can aell these documents ?" " He hasn't fetched them yet," chuckled the THE squire's legacy. 221 old man, feebly. "They are only Philippe's when he claims them in person. I've no care that he should have them, if they would do more good in your hands. 1 should sell them to be used : Jie'd sell them to be destroyed." " And you ask the same price that he asks ?" " I daren't take less, as he fixed it." " Can I read them first ?" " Sealed, just as they are, they must be bought, or not at all," The cough became rather violent here, and Mr. Bradford turned away his eyes for a few moments, letting them roam leisurely over the room for the first time* "I won't have them unsealed until they go entirely out of my possession. P&re Sourdet would have had it so ; and they don't go out of my possession unless I have the money Philippe wants for them. They were left in trust with me, and I'll do my duty by the living and the dead. Try to decide quickly, sir. I'm too great an invalid to bear these interviews." "I will decide at once," said the lawyer, rising, and looking calmly down upon th7oW man, who lay panting in the bed. ", I do not belong to any family of the name of either Monkton or Scot, so you may judge how valueless 222 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. your papers would be to me. Sealed or un- sealed, I know them to be equally worthless ; and, if 1 do chance to see Monsieur Philippe Sourdet in England, I will tell him — shall I tell you exactly what I will say to him ?" The muffled answer from the bed was unin- telligible ; but Mr. Bradford evidently took it for assent. He had pushed back his chair, and had paused beside the door to answer — " I shall say, ' Monsieur Sourdet, you and I settled this little matter once for all in San Remo, when I had the privilege of visiting yon in your chamber. It was a poor chamber, sir ; though that is but natural, perhaps, for a gen- tleman who sets such trifling value on his effects.' That is what I shall tell him then — as now, Monsieur Sourdet." In another minute Mr. Bradford was out upon the wooden steps, descending them coolly, without one glance of doubt or fear up to the door behind him. " Putting myself in his place," he mused, his stern features relaxing almost into a smile, " I should say the disguise was cleverly conceived, and carried out indifferently well ; and even his feminine confederate did not blunder, as femi- THE squire's legacy. 223 nine confederates generally do. But then, un- fortunately for him, there are easier things in the world than to impose upon T. & C. Brad- ford;' Monsieur 1' Artiste, with a cigar in his mouth, was strolling backwards and forwards in front of the hotel ; and, as the evening was soft and balmy, it was but natural that Mr. Bradford, on his return, should join him, and, falling into step, should stroll beside him to and fro upon the narrow pavement. They answered a prompt "Zfonsoir" to everyone who greeted them in passing, and Monsieur 1' Artiste stopped twice, placidly and chattily, to light a fresh cigar. But the street must needs have been a great deal lighter for it to be noticeable how very at- tentively Monsieur l\Artiste was listening all the time ; and the landlord's eyes must have been much sharper and clearer to see, from his post of observation in the window of the ca/4, that when his visitors said " Good night," and shook hands just out of reach of the lamp which swung above the hotel door, a paper, closely folded, passed from one hand to the other. Next morning Monsieur 1' Artiste, in his broad white hat, and with his sketching materials in 224 THE squire's legacy. his bag, set out from San Bemo by diligence, to continue his sketching tour in the Alps ; and, a few hours afterwards, the English visitor, dawdling over his breakfast, with a guide-book open before him, lazily turned and sent the gargon to order post-horses for Grenoble. So the little town lost these two visitors, whom she thought she had brought together, and for whom she fancied she had wiled away a few idle days. Just one week later, Mr. Bradford again dis- missed his clerks at the usual closing hour, and remained alone in his office to meet the detec- tive whom he had sent to San Remo. He en- tered exactly at the appointed time, but without the broad-brimmed white hat or the sketching- block — a young man of quick, quiet manners, whose foreign accent was too slight to impede the straightforward English expression. The interview lasted fully an hour, though both men spoke quickly and to the point ; and yet, when it was over, Mr. Bradford did not hasten home to the dinner delayed so willingly and patiently by Kenneth. Leaning back in his writing-chair, his elbows on the arms, and his legs crossed, the lawyer waited, to go over THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 225 again in thought the particulars which the young detective had brought him — the particulars which, so far, were clear and complete, and could so readily be summed up thus : — A woman, calling herself Sophie Scot, had, nearly thirty-one years ago, brought her baby to the Foundling, and pleaded for care for the child, on account of her poverty and ill-health. She had brought him from France, because his father was English, and she wished him to grow up an Englishman ; and the child, poorly supplied with everything, had no token left with him save a few leaves torn from a little pocket-book, and the daguerreotype of a man's head, supposed to be that of his father. On the paper which enfolded this, were the names Eobert and Sophie Scot, written in a man's hand; while the loose pages were evidently torn heedlessly from a pencilled diary. These had become the boy's own property, when at last he was apprenticed to a bookseller in the Borough. The boy had never been a really troublesome child, but still he had never done much good at anything. He was constitutionally indolent and apathetic, and, besides being morbidly VOL. I. Q 226 THE squire's legacy. dissatisfied, was still passive in anyone's hands. In appearance he had been always rather remarkable among the Foundling children, being exceedingly tall for his years, with a pale face, and dreamy, intellectual eyes ; -with a silent, reticent manner, which had an in- explicable touch of haughtiness in it, and hands which were white and smooth, do what he would. The boy had been noticed much by strangers, and yet day by day he seemed to shrink more into himself, and let that moody spirit — which no kindness or companionship could eradicate — hold him captive. Not that he had been averse to companionship — on the contrary, he had always seemed to dread solitude ; but his companions were always the younger children, and he seldom talked with them, or cared to hear them talk. As the only one pursuit for which he had shown any fondness had been reading, the committee, willing to follow any distinct bent of the boy's mind, had apprenticed him to a bookseller, his mental powers having been too narrow to allow them to think of any intellectual call- ing. THE squire's legacy. 227 So the career of the child at the Foundling was traced to its close. And beyond ? The bookseller in the Borough, to whom the boy had been bound apprentice, had a long story to tell. Yet it was capable of condens- ing itself, like all things else, in the lawyer's mind. Before half the years had passed, for which the boy's indentures were drawn, he had, one day, a large sum of money entrusted to him to deliver to his master, and from that moment he had never been seen or heard of. He had been sought, and advertised for, in vain. Under a feigned name, in this hemisphere or the other, he must be living now — if he was living at all. And who could ever say? No advertising would bring him forward, because he knew of what he was guilty ; no knowledge of his name would be a clue, because he must have discarded this name when his crime had made it dangerous ; no clue was there to grasp, save the fact of the late Squire of Kingswood's having seen a young man of the age his nephew would have been, and bearing a strong resemblance to his brother ; and no means of identification were Q2 228 THE squire's legacy. there, save that portrait and the torn leaves, which, probably, he had long ago lost or de- stroyed. A nameless orphan, brought up on charity, and repaying that charity by theft; a young man who had had to hide his name, because he had made it odious to all honest ears ; for such as he, was the brave young Squire of Kings- wood to give up his wealth and his grand old home? The notion was so very much beyond absurdity that Mr. Bradford rose in the heat which it engendered, and uttered his wrath aloud. For such as he ! — a nameless villain, whose proper and fitting punishment it was to forfeit all the rights of upright, honourable men I For such as he ! Pah ! Young Monkton would be mad if the idea ever visited him again, even for a moment. And young Monkton certainly was not mad, so it would all end rightly now ; and the time and expense of this week's search was a trifle not worth mentioning, especially for so good a cause as fixing in his ancestral home and honours a Squire so well loved as Scot Monkton. He had done his duty now; they had all done their duty, and traced the \ THE squire's legacy. 229 missing man, until a huge barrier rose before them which they could not pass. And how could it be but that this barrier was a welcome sight to the man who had grown to care so well for his young client, and who knew that it was raised by no power which he could stay, and no carelessness which he could have pre- vented? Hotly as Mr. Bradford had at first urged Scot to let the matter rest, without diving into those forgotten years of his uncle's life, whose possible secrets he could only too well guess, his feelings had entirely changed when the marriage in San Bemo had been proved to him. This missing man was then undoubtedly a Monktoti, and the upright old lawyer (though sad at heart to think of it) pursued the search earnestly and keenly. But then this huge barrier arose to break the clue and make it useless ; and when it showed, at the same instant, the true character of the worthless man they sought, and the futility of all further search, what wonder was it if the old man rejoiced that the future Squire of Kingswood would be an honourable gentleman, who was born to the duties and the place he filled so well ? 230 THE squire's legacy. " Scamp as this Sourdet fellow would have been," muttered Mr. Bradford, fixing that name upon him with ineffable contempt, "I daresay Mr. Monkton would still have resigned for him ; so I'm delighted that the man is hopelessly- lost, even if alive ; and that thus there is no one for whom the Squire can give up the estate. The law has given it to him by right of possession, and now Fate, or something like it, has taken up the matter and obliged us to let well alone. So we will ; and I shall go down to Kingswood to-morrow, and set the young Squire's mind at ease, and hear him tell me that we have all done what we could, and that he is satisfied, and not a little proud to feel that he has acted ultra-honourably, and yet can call the old home his own after all. He is a thoroughly sensible fellow, in spite of his chimeras, and all these romantic ideas which have infected him will have been blown to cobwebs by this time to- morrow." 231 CHAPTER XIV, THE Summer months had passed, and the leaves were falling softly in the October moonlight. It was late for a carriage to be driving through the woods of Kingswood, but Colonel Egerton had posted from London, and the ostler at Minton had let his postilion into the secret of a short cut to the Dower House. The clouds, in dusky lines, sailed slowly over the face of the calm, full moon, as she brightly kissed their edges ; and, while they passed, the carriage-lamps held their own small sway, throwing their light for but a tiny distance out into the fathomless darkness of the foliage, but making the stems of the silver firs stand out near and white and glistening. " Isn't it better than coming by train, papa? I could fancy this a haunted German forest, 232 THE squire's legacy. and that you and I were two — " Doris cor- rected herself gently, remembering that her companion was not Kenneth, and that she was very much too grown-up now to promulgate romantic fancies — " were going home to a moat- ed Schloss, instead of our own pretty, peaceful home." And, with the clinging tenderness of her childhood, Doris laid her cheek down upon her father's shoulder, and slipped, one hand into his. " We shall soon be at home. We are in the open park now. Look out, darling, and you will see the lights at Eingswood." Not only did Doris press her face to the win- dow, but, when the carriage passed near the house, and the moon shone upon its high grey walls, she put the window down, and leaned from it. "How late we must be, father!" she ex- claimed, when she drew in her head. "The house is shut up for the night, the shutters are closed, and everything is evidently asleep. I wish we had not driven past ; it has made the whole place feel chilly and uninhabited." "Very likely Mr. Monkton is abroad, dear. THE squire's legacy. 233 Close the window. I suppose Joan is sure to be at the Dower House." " Yes, and Kenneth !" cried Doris, all excited expectation in a moment, and remaining so until the carriage stopped before the pillared door at the Dower House, and the travellers were met by a flood of cheery lamplight. In this light Colonel Egerton paused only a moment — a tall, thin, white-haired gentleman, with a calm, soldierly bearing, and a brave, gentle face. But Doris stood far longer, while Kenneth, half dazzled coming from the light, gazed out before him as he advanced to her, and wondered why she lingered with raised face and wide, fixed eyes. " Doris, my darling ! Oh, what a pleasure it is to see you once again !" "Dear Kenneth, yes, it is so nice; but — listen !" He stood to listen, but his eyes did not follow hers ; they rested only on the face he loved, the bright, mischievous face of the little Doris, whose memory was linked with the holidays at Richmond; but, beyond that, the earnest, thoughtful face of the Doris who had suddenly grown up before their last parting. And no- 234 THE squire's legacy. thing more — for those past six months had taught her no lesson which he had not taught her. Ah, how plain that was to-night ! "Who is it, Ken !" He had both her hands clasped in his, and was waiting for her greeting, and he answered quietly, as if her earnestness and silence wrapped themselves about him too ; while the music of a cornet came gliding to them ton the still, moon- lit air. " It is at the Black Birches, dear ; Annt Joan has heard it many times while she has # been here. You know the old farm is very near here." " I — I wonder who it is," said Doris, drawing a long, quiet breath when the music had ceased. "Do you not know? Have we all avoided telling you?" asked Kenneth, bending to meet her rapt eyes. " Oh, yes, why should we have told you a thing so strange and inexplicable ? Doris, darling, it is Mr. Monkton who is living at the Black Birches." "Mr. Monkton! Mr. Monkton of Kings- wood?" " Yes, dear ! Kingswood is shut up." " We — we saw that. And Mr. Monkton is there, Ken ?" THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 235 « Yes." "Alone?" " Not quite ; he has an aunt with him — a dis- mal little lady enough. There is no one else that I know of, save that old man who lighted a fire here on your last visit." " What does it mean ?" " You will hear in time, darling. It was very hard to understand — just at first." " Hark !" Still with her hand in his, Doris stood in utter silence and stillness, listening once more. " Oh, Ken !" she breathed very slowly, " How beautiful it is, but how sad ! I wish I had not heard it." "Do you, dear? I think it just suits the happy moonlight, and the happiness of your home-coming." " Now, Doris," called her father from the hall, " come in, my dear. Aunt Joan is not content with that one kiss of yours, long as it was. Ah, what is that? I declare I heard Eoenig play that air sixteen years ago — a favourite cornet solo of his ; a beantifol air, and finely played now, too. Bring her in, Kenneth." " What did papa say?" asked the girl, as she lingeringly obeyed the call. 236 the squire's legacy. " That I was to bring " " No, I mean " And Kenneth wondered why that dreamy, listening look should still dwell within her eyes — " What did he call that air?" 44 He did not name it ; but it is * The Exile's Lament/ Now will you take your welcome home, my darling ? " 237 CHAPTER XV. THE day following the arrival of Colonel Egerton and his daughter at the Dower House was Saturday, and the pleasure of visit- ing and investigating every corner of their new home, within and without, was still fresh and incomplete, even when night came and brought Mr. Bradford down from London, to spend the first Sunday with them. The lawyer had much to say to his old friend about the changes at Kingswood; and Doris — though, as she was sitting with Kenneth over a game of chess, she found it all in vain to try to follow the conver- sation — somehow managed, when the stray speeches reached her ears, to grasp and hold them. " Change ! Why, I'll defy any of us to 238 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. imagine what a change, because he has had to give up everything^ except his health and strength — and those will go too, if he doesn't take care. He had always an immense amount of sensitiveness under his easy manner ; and I don't suppose any one of us can realise the daily and hourly forbearance he is obliged to exercise now, because of his innate pride and re- finement." " Doris, dear, is it going to be a very diplo- matic move, that you hesitate so long?" Doris, with a laugh, put her fingers on her only remaining bishop, and moved him otie square. " It is wise not to venture too much at a time, Doris." But now her hands were folded in her lap again, and other words than Kenneth's wer6 filling her ears. " Tes ; but the hardest of all is to suppress, in every little thing, his old tastes and habits. Why, there is not a new machine patented, or a book printed, which has a relation to farming, but his first impulse is to send for it, just as he has been used all his life to send for what he fancied. And when the remembrance comes, THE squire's legacy. 239 and he knows it must be given up — I have seen once or twice the quiet struggle, ending, to all appearance, so easily and naturally, and I don't care to see it again." " Check, dear, I said. Why pause so long? Don't you see that you have but one move ? " "I dare say I shall make that move you m ean,» said Doris, with suspicious promptnL; "but most likely I could find lots of other moves, if I thought it over." " Then hadn't you better think it over?" " No." And Boris settled her elbow on the table, and her chin in her palm, and waited for an inevitable defeat. Still there was no need to listen to the approach of the enemy, as well as look at it, so she might as well hear what answer her father won to his last question. " No ; not a farthing. Nothing but what he earns on his own land will he touch now, or has he touched since his father's death ; but, of course, as you say, the expenses consequent on seeking this mythical heir will be paid from the estate." " Now, Doris, what do you think of your prospects ?" 240 THE squtre's legacy, " Limited," returned Doris, coolly, " but not quite blighted yet. Watch my inspired move." Mr. Bradford had risen, and was standing on the rug ; and Doris, after her move, looked up at him, as if waiting for his answer to a remark some one had just made. "Yes, indeed ; the idea may well strike you, Joan — especially here to-night, where every- thing is bright and snug and sociable, and we make such a pleasant home-party. To think of his only home being that ugly house, and his only companion that depressing relative ! I declare you've no business to put such pictures into one's head at all. Why, Doris, what a silly move, my dear ! You've lost the day now, beyond all hope. Tired, eh ?" " Tired, Mr. Bradford !" cried Doris, starting up and joining him. " How could I be tired of one game ?" But Kenneth, following her with anxious eyes, though she had turned her face from him, saw in the mirror that it was grave and pale* " It is so seldom that I can checkmate Doris," he said, in his quiet way, as he put up the chessmen, " and she is generally so angry if I do." THE squire's legacy. 241 " Yet not to-night, eh ?" asked the old law- yer, turning to scrutinise her with appareut displeasure. " This won't do, Doris, my dear ; if anger is, as I understand, your native ele- ment, you must return to it." " I will, Mr. Bradford, if Kenneth wishes »it," she said, in just her old bright and gentle way ; and the evening ended, as it had begun, merrily as well as happily. * * * * * * * " Oh, Ken, isn't it a beautiful world, and isn't Sunday a beautiful day ? Listen !" Doris had stopped L, with her hand upon his arm, as they walked together through the park at Kingswood. "Yes, I am listening. I have listened for half an hour," smiled Kenneth, looking into her face, while there swept over them, and round them, and past them, the Sunday chime from the white spire among the trees. Then Doris walked on quietly at Kenneth's side, among the gathering congregation in the churchyard, where the sud shine lay upon the quiet graves while that glad music of the Sabbath bells swept above them. With her pretty smile, Doris acknowledged the curtseys of the village VOL. I. B 242 THE squire's legacy. women and the bows of the village men,, and her fleet, bright blush answered their glance* of nnconcealed admiration. Then she followed Miss Joan into the aisle, where an old man in a black gown, and evidently also in a state of expectation, waited to lead them to their seat — a sqnare seat beside the chancel, but not curtained and separated from the rest of the congregation, as Colonel Egerton, who followed with Mr, Bradford and his son, remembered it to have been in old time. " Why here, father ?" whispered Doris, -when he had ensconced himself beside her. u Isn't this the Kingswood pew V* " Yes, dear ; but the Dower House is King*. wood, you know. The man had orders to bring us here." So Doris said nothing more, only presently she raised her eyes — as softly and as brightly blue as the fair Summer sky — and looked round the church. First her gaze rested on the Misses Levey, whose seat was nearest to the Kinggf- wood pew ; and indeed, even otherwise her gaze would almost inevitably have been arrested by them. The lofty fabrics tilted on the glossy dark plaits were certainly the two most striking THE squire's legacy. 243 objects in the church ; but the faces with which these bonnets were presumably connected were striking too, and Doris caught herself growing rather intent and earnest in her gaze. These girls would be her neighbours and acquaint- ances — friends, perhaps, some day. A little involuntary sigh escaped her, as the colour rose under their cold, hard scrutiny. There was a gentleman with them, and Doris's eyes went for a moment up to his face. Kenneth had not told her of him. Hers was but a cursory glance, over in one moment, and then her eyes came back and rested upon Kenneth. Did she find a new pleasure, at that moment, in his gentle, intellectual face, and in his kind, grave smile ? Softly and shyly she slipped her hand into his. " My dear," he whispered, just as if he had understood something she did not say, "Mr. Levey hasn't seen a young lady in the pew for so long that he is astonished, and his eyes are naturally very round, else you would think that stare ungentlemanly, wouldn't you V 9 Doris answered only with a little nod. It was not necessary to tell Kenneth that she thought it ungentlemanly even now. " Ken, who are the quiet, handsome young »2 244 THE squire's legacy, lady, and the delicate gentleman with the long fair beard 1 Do you see V 9 "Those are Mr* and Miss Chamberlain. I thought you knew them. But suppose you ask no more questions, dear, until service is over ; it »will begin in a few minutes." Probably because it felt itself so out of place upon the happy face, that frown which had greeted Kenneth's first response to her last question, had sped away quickly, and no trace of it was left when his last words were uttered. Doris was sitting thoughtfully and gravely, facing the humbler congregation in the body of the church, when, among the little groups which entered more rapidly now, there came one solitary figure, walking, without pause or hesi- tation, straight up the aisle, with a firm yet easy step. But the old man in the flapping gown was too quick for him. By a clever stratagem he was in advance, holding open the door of the Kingswood pew with such show and ostenta- tion that Scot Monkton could not have taken any other seat without drawing upon himself the wonder of all the congregation. " I think," mused Doris to herself, " he had not intended to sit here." THE squire's legacy. 245 It was only a fancy, of course ; for Doris did not know that this little scene had been enacted every Sunday since the late Squire's [death, and that the old pew-opener now had become such an adept in frustrating any possible de- signs of u the Squire " to evade the family pre- rogative in this respect, as he had evaded it in matters over which the old man had no such control, that the task would now have been hopeless. "When the service was over, Doris noticed that it was her father, and not Mr. Bradford, who waited and joined Mr. Monkton. The old lawyer, possibly with a better knowledge of Scot than his cousin possessed, walked on to the churchyard gate, where a glittering lan- dau, bearing the lately-discovered crest of the Leveys, stood waiting for the young ladies, who dawdled near, curious as to whether they would be introduced to their new neigh- bours. But Mr. Bradford had evidently no such intention. He raised his hat and led Miss Joan past. " Don't like 'em," he remarked, " and I don't agree with David about the happiness of speak-, ing with mine enemies in the gate." 246 THE squire's legacy. " What trains they had to their dresses, Aunt Joan! And did yon see the camellia in Mr* Levey's coat ?" " Doris," called Kenneth, hurrying up, u wait, dear* I only stopped to answer a question of Mr. Levey's. Do you know, 1 verily be- lieve " " So do I, Kenneth," put in Miss Joan, mis- chievously. " I was going to say," smiled Kenneth, " that I believe he has fallen suddenly in love with Doris." " Indeed !" observed the lawyer. " Do such things ever occur among the Jews ?" " He is very handsome," said Doris, her eyes dancing. " You are not to be compared with him, Ken." " He throws everyone into the shade — espe- cially Mr. Monkton." The swift gravity which was such a peculiar feature of Doris's character, fell over her face and stirred her voice. " Don't joke, Ken. Be strong and good and nice to me to-day. It's Sunday, and I'm going to lose you." " But, Doris," he said, his whole face bright- THE squire's legacy. 247 ening when she slipped her hand within his arm, " tell me what you think of Mr. Monkton. Tou saw him once before, you remember, when he was rich and light-hearted. And now—: — " "Now he is richer still, as I count riches," she supplemented, softly. " True, darling ; and in appearance V* " In appearance I see no change. If I were in sorrow, Ken, I — I think I could go to him and expect just the words which would cheer' and comfort me most ; and— and yet, if I had a good joke to tell, I should know he would enjoy it very much." "And you thought all that would be gone V " I suppose I did. I thought he could not be so exactly what he was when I saw him at Richmond, before this had occurred." " But my father says there is a great change in him, wrought by his knowledge of himself. Can you understand that ?" " I can understand that * melancholy has not marked him for her own.' " "It is not sorrow which breaks the heart, Doris. It is joy, I think." " Kenneth 1" 248 THE SQUIRE'S L1EGA0Y. " Yes, darling," he said, answering her gaze with his own gentle smile. " Nothing ; only don't speak sadly, please, to- day." u Nor any day, my love," he cried, taking in his the hand which lay upon his arm. " How can any sadness creep into my thoughts when they are so full of you, or into my words when they are uttered once again to you, my darling, after this long separation? No other long separation will follow now, will it ? Your next tour abroad will be with me, my love." " You can't speak Italian, Ken, and I make great blunders. We must wait several years for me to study. See, papa has joined Annt Joan now; let us wait for them. Oh! Ken, just look at the beauty of the Autumn woods, with the sunlight on them ! What a day it is ! I feel as if I wanted to hold it that it should not go. To-morrow comes the workaday world again, and you will go, and I shall have to be so decorous and so formal to receive visitors." "I don't think you need, dear," laughed Kenneth : " you will do very well as you natu- rally are." But when the Monday came, these anticipated THE squire's legacy. 249 calls were evidently forgotten. Mr. Bradford had spent the Sunday evening and night at the Black Birches; and now, after an early luncheon, Colonel Egerton had driven him in to Minton, where he wished to see a client before returning to town. Kenneth was to take a later train, and would be at Richmond quite as soon. Aud now he and Doris, after strolling through the garden and the shrubbery, had en- sconced themselves — with an eye rather to com- fort than appearance — on the low, moss-grown wall which separated the grounds of the Dower House from that long sloping meadow through which the Larch Walk led down to the river. "Compare this, Doris, with the garden in Gordon Square." " No injustice, if you please, Ken," returned Doris, lazily. " For a solitary little orphan gar- den, adopted by a grim old brick-and-mortar race, it dfd its duty v^brightly. How many a Summer day I have sat outside Aunt Joan's windows, and wondered whether those trees ever had had a beautiful country baby-home, and fretted for it, or could only remember their town schools ; and whether the birds came and made them jealous with little poems of the 250 THE squire's legacy. ft natural, beautiful life of a forest tree; and whether they found it harder to bud and do their duty cheerfully after that; and whether we- " * Yes ; and then ?" u Oh I I expect you generally appeared round a corner then," corrected Doris, with a laugh. u I shall have some more happy hours under the awning on the old portico yet. Ah ! Ken, why did you let me look up just then ? That was a magpie flying over us." " Do you know what will bring you up to town first, Doris ?" asked the young man, too much in earnest to notice the reproof. w You will come first to see my play ; don't you feel that you will, my darling ?" u Yes," — and never could Doris have under- stood, if she had tried, why, as she spoke, she should have laid her hand upon his, with a sympathy which she fancied was for herself, and he fancied was for him — u but, Kenneth, why- hurry that it may be next Summer? Think how tame your future efforts will be, if you overwork yourself now." " Oh, no fear !" he smiled, pushing the hair from his narrow face, as if it exhibited Herou- THE squire's legacy. 251 lean prowess. " Even if Marie Antoinette cornea back to me again, my new drama is snre to succeed." Suddenly at this instant an extraordinary and unnatural decorum took possession of Doris. Her arms had been folded behind her head, against a low old walnut-tree, and her white gipsy hat hung upon one of its branches ; but now she put on the hat, and folded her hands in her lap, wishing devoutly that she could be walking up- right in a pathway, or sitting, as a grown-up person ought to sit, in the arbour behind her, with some lace-work or a book of poems. Yet it was only a young man alone who came from the Larch Walk just then, and stopped opposite her, with a smile and an extended hand. " For fear you might be otherwise unaware of the fact, Miss Egerton," said Soot, after his greeting to them both " I had better tell you that this is my call of ceremony. I really was coming to the house, to ask for you and Colonel Egerton in proper style; but, as you cannot guess how long it took me to make up mind to the ceremony, you won't be able to guess how pleasant it is to find you here." Before Doris had said all she intended to say 252 THE squire's legacy. bo neatly, about her father's absence and her own delight in seeing Mr. Monkton, she was aware that he was settled quite comfortably against the wall near her, and did not at all seem to mind whether she got through her little speeches decorously, or broke down in them, and — it was much more agreeable that he should not. But she had an uncompromising notion that it was imperative upon her to allow no silence to fall upon them just at first, so she ventured a prim remark upon the beauty of the view, and made up her mind not to forgive Ken- neth all the evening, unless he took up the subject and enlarged learnedly upon it. But this was the very first experience Kenneth had had of Doris's assumption, and it took him so •completely by surprise that his conversational powers were in abeyance. So — Doris remem- bered this afterwards with a laugh against herself — there had fallen another ominous si- lence, and she could not think of any other " society " remark. She turned and glanced at her visitor in a spirit of despairing scrutiny. How young and ignorant he would think her, that she could not entertain better ! He looked very much at his ease, half sitting on the wall THE squire's legacy. 253 there so near her, and not at all as if he minded the ignominious failure of her commendable efforts. And just as her bright and wilful eye» unconsciously questioned him on this, his met them; and — Doris never could either remem- ber or guess how it had happened — a laugb broke in both. " I was thinking," she said— and the primness and the stiffness and the efforts had all dissolved like morning mist — " how unlike you are to what I had fancied you; while I stood and listened to your cornet in the moonlight, the night we came. You were playing ' The Exile's Lament,' and it was so sad." "Friday night? I remember. My third valve persisted in sticking, so I left off." " Papa says, whenever he heard Koenig play that air, he felt the tears come into his eyes * y just think — a man's eyes !" " I should rather like to know where Koenig used to stop to wipe his lip. And so of course you fancied me a broken-hearted exile, with a chronic lament." Doris's hat, being untied, slipped so uncom- fortably on one side that — very naturally — she took it off and held it in her lap. Of course 254 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. then she could see better whether Mr. Monkton was laughing at her. No ; certainly not. Doris, inexperienced as she might be, like a true woman, possessed that tact and sympathy which can read the subtle indications of pain or pleasure. She understood why it came more easily to him to answer her thus, just as she was — a few minutes afterwards — to under- stand why his glance, as he lingered there, rested anywhere rather than on Kingswood. And the knowledge shattered every trace of petty formality, and formed itself into a oorner-stone on which the future was to build. There was no unpleasant halt in their con- versation now, though there was many a pause — what but the very shallowest talk has no such pause ? And the Autumn afternoon was passing by them unawares. There fell the shadow of the half-clothed walnut-tree on Scot's handsome sunburnt face ; and the brim of Ken- neth's straw hat shaded his ; but between them both, Doris sat in the full light of the lowering sun, her face so delicately smooth and soft and fair, the dainty colour in her cheeks coming and going as she spoke, and smiled, and listened ; THE squire's legacy. 255 and the sunbeams passing brightly through her hair. "Bradford, how does the new drama get on?" It was not an unpremeditated question, nor asked in any mere spirit of curiosity. Kenneth understood this in a moment, as he had always understood Scot Monkton's sympathy, and he told him of his work just as he would have told Doris. " You think it more likely to succeed, now that you are writing it without the fetters of history or tradition %" " I trust so," said Kenneth, his eyes wander- ing dreamily across the wooded hills; "it is a picture of true human life.'* "If so," put in Doris, with a smile, "the laughter and the tears are rery near together, Ken." " And with real humour and simple pathos for the moving springs, I must touch all hearts, must I, Doris!" " Without stirring passion ?" asked Scot, with an earnestness of which he looked unconscious. " Can he portray real life without that, Miss Egerton ?" 256 THE squire's legacy. " No, I suppose npt — for the stage," she said, thoughtfully. " But you think it can be managed off the stage?" he asked, and, though he smiled while he waited for her answer, it came as gravely as if a whole life had depended upon it. " I — hope so." " After all," observed Kenneth, meditatively, " I suppose the one thing most important is the harmony of the whole." "That must exist, if the watchword be Duty." " But," said Doris, wondering at Scot's tone, " there are men who live unhappy lives for the very sake of duty." "Unhappy, yes; but in the end there will have been harmony, I fancy. At any rate," he added, with a laugh, " it should be so on the stage, and that is all we are speaking of. Look, Miss Egerton ; surely those are the last of the martins. Prepare for Winter now." " I never prepare for Winter," smiled Doris, following his eyes. " And you are right and wise," he said ; and then turned away, amused at himself for think* ing anything of such light words. THE squire's legacy. 257 There fell another silence upon them then, and just at that minute an open carriage rolled along the highway near them, and its occu- pants, unnoticed themselves, scanned very curi- ously the three figures on the wall. A few minutes afterwards Doris was summoned to the house to receive her visitors. Mr. Levey and his sisters had not been long in the pleas- ant sunlit drawing-room — he hovering near his hostess, and they doing their best to en- tertain Mr. Monkton, and bestowing a little attention on Kenneth, and a great deal of scrutiny upon their young entertainer, — when Miss Chamberlain was announced. Miss Bradford went forward eagerly to receive the grave, quiet lady who entered, and the Misses Levey turned their eyes sharply from her to Scot; but Doris, when she had coldly given her hand to this solitary visitor, stood back, and fell at once an easy prey to the charms thrown out so persistently this after- noon by Mr. Bernard Levey. Perhaps in nerv- ous avoidance of Margaret Chamberlain, and perhaps even in amusement, Doris was drawn into an animated discussion with him, while Bose slipped out of the group, and tried to VOL. I. S 258 THE squire's legacy. wean Scot from his place beside the couch where Miss Bradford sat with Margaret. " Oh ! auntie," whispered Doris, standing for a few minutes opposite her aunt's chair, when they were left together again ; and then sitting down upon the floor and laying her head in Miss Joan's lap, as she had been used to do when but a tiny child, "I ought not to be grown up. I am not worthy to have any responsibility ; I do nothing well, or wisely, or kindly. I'm — I'm only fit to be your child, as I used to be, Aunt Joan. Oh, take me back !" " My darling," said the old lady, stroking the girl's bent head with infinite tenderness, "it will all be easy presently. You did very well. I have only one word to say, love — let no unworthy feeling stand between you and Mar- garet Chamberlain. She is one whom it will do you good to know, and one for whose friendship you may be grateful." "But, Aunt Joan," said Doris, raising her face, and betraying its pride and astonishment, " she broke my brother's heart — do you for- get?" "She refused him," returned Miss Joan, THE squire's legacy. 259 quietly. " If it had happened, Doris, that you could not have loved Kenneth well enough to marry him, do you think I should have been proud a,nd cold and disagreeable to you ?" u Oh! auntie, you never could be; but — indeed it is different. She — she made Arthur believe she loved him ; at least — I have heard papa say how she always seemed happier with him ; and — and of course he would not have taken it so to heart if he had been prepared." " You are little more than a child even yet, Doris," said Miss Joan, smiling gently, "elso you would acknowledge it wisest to leave each heart to its own bitterness, because we can never judge for each other. When you feel tempted to be strict upon anyone, dear, be strict upon yourself— will you try that? Here comes Kenneth back from the gate ; go out and meet him, and let the sunshine come down into your eyes again." It was evening-time, and the carriage was waiting at the gate for Kenneth — the carriage could very well wait while the last words were repeated, and the last pressure given to the lingering hands, "Kenneth, can you understand why Miss s2 260 THE squire's legacy. Chamberlain refused to marry my brother Arthur, and so drove him from home and England ?" " Of course I can, my dear," said Kenneth — too happy in his own successful love to enter- tain the possibility of any girl's voluntarily dashing from her lips the like delicious draught — " she must have loved some one else/' Even there, in the gloom of the portico, he saw the shadow falling on the face he held so near his own, and across His heart there fell a dawning of what the words might have meant —even to him. And Doris was thinking now of others besides her brother. She recalled Scot Monkton's pleasant courtesy to Margaret, when she herself had turned from her in her own house; she could even recall, with a marvellous clearness and distinctness, the few kind and generous words he had said of Miss Chamberlain on that day she had first met him, " I see," she said, very quietly, " I see now." ******* That evening, at Osborne House, Bernard Levey and his sisters had well, though not too mercifully, discussed their afternoon visit. But Bernard did not tell that he had had again to THE squire's legacy. 261 tradergo the mortification of being thrown into the shade by Scot Monkton, even though Scot had walked up from his farm, while Bernard had driven over in style. And, though Rose and Violet were equally uncomfortable, neither would, or even could, explain to herself exactly how it was. " Miss Egerton is a thorough little aristocrat, and a very pretty and unusually pleasant one — " So Bernard had at last dismissed his share of the discussion, finishing more a thought than a subject of conversation. "She evidently has that young London lawyer devoted to her. She will not surely attempt to make mischief between other people in the neighbourhood — ,? So Violet finished her thought; but Rose left hers unfinished, and caught up the threads in a dream. In this dream Scot Monkton stood beside her, looking up to Kingswood, where she saw that some one stood in the open doorway beckoning to him. Some one — but who ? To learn this, Rose, in her dream, shaded her eyes from the strong sunshine pouring down upon them. It was Doris Egerton. Was she not there in the full light, coming forward a little now, 262 THE squire's legacy. until it was quite easy to see her? Doris? No; it was Margaret Chamberlain — Margaret herself, with her slow, soft step, and that look of trouble which was always in her eyes. No, the figure was too small for Margaret — far, far too small ; and it had no bright hair like Doris's, and no Rose raised her head in the sunshine, and took the shading hand from her eyes. There was no figure in the open doorway now, and she was alone upon the slope, waiting to see if Scot would enter. Then, quite suddenly, Rose awoke; to find her pillow wet with tears. 263 CHAPTER XVI. SCOT did not take the direct road along the Larch Walk, after he had left the Dower House ; nor did he turn to the right and cross the ornamental bridge in the park. He chose the longest way of all, and, passing out into the turnpike road, followed that until he reached a narrow lane which led straight down, at right angles with the road, to the old wooden foot- bridge, which crossed the river behind the Green Pits. As he reached the corner of the lane, he was aware of a man's figure coming towards him on the high road, but coming towards him apparently without any definite purpose, idly and listlessly strolling, as if to enjoy in a lan- guid and leisurely manner, the last afternoon glimpse of Autumn sunshine. 264 THE squire's legacy. "I am not sorry," mused Scot to himself, with that swift warmth of laughter in his eyes, as he turned aside, " to be able to avoid the elegant greeting of that artificial rascal ; the luxury will keep. Now that he has returned to the neighbourhood, I may expect another visit. He is rather a heavy fellow, I must own (the hugeness of his shoulders equalling that of his intellect) but a few more of his dastardly insinuations will tempt me to forget the fact, and dismiss him with an act of gentle manipu- lation. But " — with a cheery whistle for his dogs, and a comical glance down upon the old farm — " I hope he will never tempt me to act so in my own house. Monarch, what is it ?" But the dog, after feeling his way deliberate- ly through the hedge, had raced across the sloping meadow without a pause. "Curious," said Scot, with a smile, as he stepped upon the unsteady old wooden bridge ; " but Monarch has always some method in his madness, so. I suppose he scented a strange dog. I wish he hunted human rascals off the premises as promptly as he hunts canine ones." " Wheer's Monarch, sir ? Master, wheer's Monarch ?" THE squire's legacy. 2G5 The panting questions came from Liath, who made the bridge shake as he hurried up to his master. Scot, leaning against the wooden rail* and watching the man with a strange look upon his face — as if no trouble, be it what it would, could come quite unexpectedly to him again — explained his dog's last vagary. " Thenk ye, sir," said Liath, turning away as if he suddenly found his part of the story hard to tell. " He's done what he could — he alius does, good old fella — but it's too late. Theer's bin some strange dogs 'mong the sheep, sir, and we've lost nigh upon twenty." " That leaves us — how many, Liath ?" The man turned round again, and raised his eyes in astonishment to his master's face ; but, for all their shrewdness and anxiety, it needed something beyond to read the subtle feelings there. With Liath the worst was always over when he had told his master ; and so Scot, as he turn- ed towards the pasture-meadows, expected the old man to come with him cheerfully ; but Liath made a dead pause when they had crossed the bridge. " I'm goin' to the cow 'us, sir," he said, in a 266 THE squire's legacy. voice which he fancied was quite cool and com- fortable, " then to the Green Pits, and then to the river meada. I'm — a little afeard as there's some ugly blisters to-day on Daisy's tongue, and — I dunna know but what Ed'art and me can see some on th' 'ind legs o' two o' {he new 'eifers, just at their 'eels." "I see," said Scot, but with only a slight glimpse of that quietness which in him was always born of strong emotion. " What a fool I've been to stay away so long ! What have you done ?'•' "I've sent Ed'art into Minton for the vet, sir, and I've shringed their fit, and put clean litter in their sheds. We'd very nearly 'scaped this fut-and-mouth disease— hadna we, sir?" added Liath, with an air as briskly jubilant now as if his late information had been founded upon the remarkable health of the entire herd. " Those that are in the field must have hurdles round them/' said Scot, speaking faster than his wont, "and they must have potash in their water. See about that, and I will go and fix the hurdles." Just as Scot turned, and Liath stood puzzled for a moment, hesitating to speak, there came THE squire's legacy. 267 running towards them from the farm the young* girl who was Miss Windish's only prop and stay within doors. Would the master come in for a minute, as- he was wanted particularly f "Could anything have bin luckier?" mutter- ed Liath, looking after his master. " I'd have had to tell him as we hadna 'urdles to use What's the use o' alius havin to remind him o' the good a bit o' ready money 'd do us ? We havna got it, and theer's an end of it— whether the cattle live or die, and whether the sheeps eat or not eat. And so," ended Liath's thought, cheer- fully, as he walked on, " we may jest be thenk- ful that the master's 'ands ain't pieces o' white- wax, as is ne'er a bit o' good, and that, for all his larnin' and his old grand life, he's jest the first alius to put his own showlder to the wheel." The shoulder which Scot was just then call- ed to put to the wheel was the metaphori- cal shoulder of a sturdy patience. Miss Michal, who had sent for him so hastily, was exhibit- ing before him, in the kitchen, various articles, which she had purchased at a sale, where she had spent a short day in the greatest perturba- 268 THE squire's legacy. bation lest any one else should step in before lier in the winning of a real bargain. "But did we need these fenders, Aunt Michal?" inquired Scot, gazing without much rapture on the articles in question. " Do you think," said Miss Michal, with symp- toms of an approaching depression, "that I could let them go to anyone else, when they went so very cheap? It would have been a real sin. And see that little bed, Scot — only forty shillings, all complete ! I never in all my life saw such a bargain before. The auctioneer himself said he was giving it away." " What a generous fellow ! But who's to sleep in it, Aunt Michal ? Liath is the smallest person in the house, but even he is not small enough for that toy." " Liath !" cried Miss Windish, with a prompt display of tears. " What are you talking of? It is a child's bedstead, Scot, and has a real feather bed. You'll want a child's bed some day — and just think how cheap it was." " I will," said Scot, in his pleasant way. " I'll think of that and nothing more, Aunt Michal." And she could not see that there was any •effort in his dismissal of another thought. THE squire's legacy. 269 " I've one or two more things to show you," resumed Miss Michal, gleefully rubbing her . limp hands together in her triumph ; " but I mustn't keep you now, because you are wanted in the drawing-room " — Miss Windish, follow- ing Scot's lead, gave to the old rooms at the Black Birches the names which came most familiarly to her lips ; and the low, ugly rooms which, until six months ago, had been known only as the " parlour " and the " best parlour," were now called promiscuously " drawing- room " and " library," " dining-room " and " morning-room." " I'm glad he's come," said Scot, " Beauti- ful !" — this word of praise was bestowed upon a peculiar slip of carpet just then exhibited — " It's the veterinary surgeon from Minton." But the visitor Scot found in the "best parlour " was so little a surgeon — veterinary or otherwise — that before he had been ten minutes in his company Scot's old wound was open and rasped, and all its old aching brought back. But who could guess it, as he stood there at the window, with his back to the light, his eyes rather quizzical than otherwise, as they rested on his cousin's angry face ? "270 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. "This is the first time I have seen you, Stanley/' he said, when this harsh probing was all over, " since we were boys, and you used to spend your holidays at Kingswood ; don't you think we may just as well make it a pleasant meeting as a disagreeable one? It must be short, of course, because I shall not ask you to stay, as you call my house * a beastly hole.' " Even that glimpse of pride could not make the tone unpleasant, but the voice which an- swered was more than unpleasant in its blunt heartlessness. " I call the place simply what it is, and any man would be a fool to live here voluntarily." " All right," said Scot, quietly ; " here's the fool. Go on; let's have the old story over again by all means, if it amuses you." "You have no right — I will assert, in any Court of England, that you've no right — to leave our family estate empty and unoccu- pied." "The estate is well taken care of," put in Scot. But the interruption was unnoticed. " And bring upon us these sneaks and cheats, who would pass themselves off as legal heirs of Kingswood." THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 271 " You have been strangely misinformed," said Scot ; " only one man attempted the deceit of passing himself off as an heir, and his fraud was seen through immediately by Mr. Brad- ford." "And," continued Stanley Monkton again, without noticing the interruption, "it is rank injustice to myself to drag in this nonsensical mythical claim." "I can hardly imagine," said Scot, moving from his position, and walking slowly to and fro before the windows, without glancing again towards his cousin — a tall, dark-haired young man, with features which, though regular and handsome, were harsh and cold and hard — " that you yourself, in my place, would not have acted as I did. I saw nothing else to do. However long I had unconsciously appropriated another man's property, I could not consciously do* it; and this was my own. True I might possibly have earned a livelihood in town, for which — the thought makes me smile — my old life and college education might have fitted me better ; but it is slow and tedious work, they say, to find employment when you are vague as to what duties you can undertake, and have 272 THE squire's legacy* served no apprenticeship to any ; so we came here." " We !" echoed Stanley, with more alarm even than derision. " Have you dragged a wife down to poverty too ?" Scot's arms were folded, so the tightened grasp of his fingers was not seen. Without pausing in his measured walk, he raised his head with a laugh. " I am not married. Only my own life stands between you and Kingswood ; but un- fortunately it is a very healthy life, Stanley." " It's a life you will soon shorten for your- self, if you keep up this ridiculous whim," was the muttered retort. "Think it over like a man of sense," he added, considering it wiser to change his tone after that searching glance into his cousin's face. " Why should you deny your- self in this way, for a person who most probably does not even exist ; and, if he does, has never known, or even guessed, that he had a possible claim to any property ? He would not actually know what to do with it if he had it, and would be a much happier and better fellow left as he is, than put here to squander a great fortune, and disgrace a good name." THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 273 It was real knowledge of his cousin's nature — whether acquired by himself or not — which prompted Stanley Monkton to put the matter in this light ; but yet it won no different an- swer. "My father left me in trust to make the restitution," Scot said, as if the wider questions of honour and justice were all included in that simple fact. " Well, and you have tried and failed. Don't be a fool any longer. Go back to Kingswood, and give us all our old positions." " Tours has never changed," said Scot, coldly. " There may be still only one life in your way. It makes no difference in your position, or home, or income." "I say it does," cried Stanley, losing the slight control he had put upon his temper; " though how is no business of yours, and we need not discuss it. But, by Heaven, if you persist in this idiocy, I shall come myself to Kingswood !" " By what right ?" asked Scot, still without pausing in his walk. " By the right of possession, which you ig- nored," cried Stanley, roughly ; " though, if I VOL. I. T 274 THE squire's legacy. chose, I could come by another. Do you think there would be much difficulty in proving you deranged, while you live and work here, when you've no earthly reason to believe any other man lives who has a claim upon your father's estate?" " I have thought of that," said Scot, pausing for the first time, and glancing from the window with a grave look in his eyes, though a smile was on his lips. " You might make a capital case: Let me tell vou of one witness who would be invaluable to you. He's a Frenchman of nomadic tastes, though his nationality has been a good deal worn from him by — I should say, though this is only a guess — years of Bush, vagabondism. Ah! I see, you have yourself heard of such a man. Well, he is in this neigh- bourhood now — yes, that also you know, I see." " I should have no difficulty in finding all the witnesses I needed," returned Stanley Monkton* his cold tone failing to hide his wrath ; " but I hope such a proceeding will never be necessary. You will, of course, soon quit this life of degra- dation." " I do not think it degradation," said Scot, quietly, " I think that THE squire's legacy. 275 4 Honour and shame from no condition rise ; Act well your part — there all the honour lies.' As I am mad enough to believe that, Stanley, a jury would scarcely need further proof." " I cannot make it out," fumed Mr. Monkton, rising and hastily buttoning his overcoat ; " you never used to be a fool, yet this is the essence of folly as well as gross injustice to me." " That I certainly cannot see," said Scot, in those tones of quiet haughtiness which were not new to his cousin, whose youthful intercourse had been a series of mean encroachments on the nobler nature. " If, as you expect, we find no Monkton with a nearer claim than mine, you have still only your old task of awaiting my death. And, as it is not likely that I shall — as you so moderately put it — drag a wife down to poverty, only one life will be in your way instead of, as it might have been, an unlimit- ed number of healthy sons and grandsons." " And, if I die as soon as yourself, of what benefit to me will be your resolution ?" " Not much," returned Scot, answering com- posedly this selfish idea. " ' Thersites* body is as good as Ajax', when neither is alive !' But," he added, with the cordiality which so rarely T2 276 THE squire's legacy. cost him an effort, " what's the use of our meet- ing for the first time fbr more than ten years, and talking of mutual decease ? Shake hands, Stanley, and break bread with me in this. « beastly hole !' " " Not I," returned Stanley, roughly, " nor shall I come again to urge upon you the exercise of a little common-sense. I shall use more efficient means next time. I won't have my name made ridiculous by you, nor will I blindly give up my right as heir-presumptive to Kingswood." In another minute he had taken his seat in the hired dog-cart which had waited for him, and was driving over the bridge; while Scot hurried to the river meadow to visit his sick cattle. The dog-cart had proceeded only about a mile on its way to Minton when it overtook Monsieur Sourdet, walking with a lagging and apparently tired step in the road. Stanley Monkton passed on for a few yards, and then pulled up his horse, and spoke to the man be- hind. "Go back and ask that gentleman if he would like a seat." Monsieur Sourdet accepted the offer with his THE squire's legacy. 277 blandest smile, and prepared — but with remark- able slowness — to mount to the back of the vehicle. Mr. Monkton, turning half round, proposed the vacant seat beside himself; and Monsieur Sourdet, without further pressing, took that. ' The man, a groom from the White Lion Hotel in Minton, sitting with his back to the two gentlemen, folded his arms and looked about him; taking refuge, as he could not whistle, in minutely marking the time, and con- gratulating himself that he could have taken the mare in exactly one-fourth of the time, if he had been allowed to drive. But, even if he had listened, what could he have learnt from the half-whispers which now and then passed his careless ears ? "Yes; it was considerate of you to write and tell me how things were going on here. I saw the writer had an interest in our family, though of course I could not imagine who the deuce he was." " I thought it high time for one of his own name to interfere — at any rate to be made fully aware how matters stood ; and so, knowing your appointment was in Oporto, I wrote there. 278 THE squire's legacy. I felt sure the letter would bring you, though written by a stranger." Of these remarks, interspersed with observa- tions on the road and the weather, the groom could have made but little, even if he had heard them ; and he dismounted, and went to the horse's head, when Mr. Monkton stopped t& let down the gentleman to whom he had given a seat. " I think I was prepared," Stanley Monkton said, while he slipped into his waistcoat pocket a written address, " for my cousin's obstinacy ; but I had no idea I should feel it such a thorough- ly hopeless task to convince him. He was as firm as a rock to-day." " So far," remarked the Frenchman, pausing to speak from the steps of the vehicle, " this life at the farm has had, perhaps, sufficient novelty to make it tolerable ; and possibly he has had as yet — I do not know, for I have been very little in the neighbourhood lately — none of the losses and failures to which an inexperi- enced farmer is liable. You will see that his opinions will veer swiftly enough when things go against him." THE squire's legacy. 279 li I do not believe things ever will go against him/' returned Mr. Monkton, moodily. "Everything always went for, instead of against, him— I mean up to the time he took this freak. I verily believe he will flourish in that hole, just as he flourished at Kingswood ; and that things will prosper for him even in that vile place." " I do not believe so at all." The Frenchman's tone seemed to strike his companion, during that moment before he turned his head to meet the parting smile and remark. " We shall have rain, I fear. The air is chilly, too. Let me advise you to drive fast, Mr. Monkton. I shall soon reach my inn — very soon. Accept many thanks for the accommo- dation. Good evening." " Then I shall hear from you ?" Mr.* Monkton asked this, leaning sideways towards Monsieur Sourdet, with his left hand upon the back of the seat. " I find the air suits me, so I shall stay in this neighbourhood at present." This reply of Monsieur Sourdet's sounded a 280 THE squire's legacy. little irrelevant; but evidently something by -which it was accompanied served Stanley Monk- ton as a key. 281 CHAPTER XVII. f* "f\ORIS, put on your hat, my dear, and come with me to the Black Birches." D " Do you really mean it, papa ?" "Why not? My solitary visits have not re- turned the call with which Miss Windish fa- voured you." " When she shed tears over my loneliness," laughed Doris ; " my loneliness with you, papa — just think of it !" "Not I! Where's your hat ?" "Is that all I need? Am I to come as I am?" " Why not ? Let me look at you." He had found her reading in the porch, but she had put aside her book and risen at his call ; and so, as if the form must be gone ihrough, he ran his tranquil blue eyes over her 282 THE squire's legacy. dress. No verdict was needed beyond their pleasant glance, and so Doris— knowing that the dress she wore was a favourite with her father, and quite untroubled by the fact that she had a varied selection of ribbons upstairs, from which she might have chosen gayer adornments than the bunch of purple heartsease at her breast — tied on her hat, and took up the leather gloves which had lain beside her on the seat. " You were so particular that we should go in state to Osborne House and Comely Place, father. Is this to be a very different first call?" They were sauntering down the Larch Walk* and Doris had turned her gaze suddenly from the old farm to ask this question. " My dear little girl," Colonel Egerton said, " I want you to forget for to-day that there exists such a word as ' state ;' and be a homely, pleasant friend to the young Squire." So he bade her, in the simple kindness of his heart ; and, in the still more simple kindness of hers, she obeyed him beyond the letter. It was more than a cheerful call which Colo- nel Egerton and his daughter paid at the Black Birches; it was positively a merry one; and THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 283- even Miss Michal waxed lymphatically droll when she found her visitors so bent upon mak- ing much of her. They were all idling about the low old-fash- ioned drawing-room, Miss Michal presiding anxiously over an impromptu tea, when Doris rose in her place at the window, and stood look- ing out upon the river. " How beautiful it is," she said, " with the sunset light upon it !" " Miss Egerton," spoke Scot, from his place opposite to her, " if you like to see the sunset light upon the river, you should come to the hillock beyond the Green Pits." " May I, papa ?" inquired Doris, turning with- out a moment's hesitation. "Certainly, if Mr. Monkton will undertake the charge." " Then you will not come yourself, Colonel Egerton ?" asked Scot. " No, thank you. If Miss Windish consents, she and I will stroll to meet you ; I do not at- tempt climbing now. Miss Michal, do you re- member what a climber your hus — Mr. Haw- thorne was ?" "No," said Miss Michal, with a vigorous 284 THE squire's legacy. shake of her head, and an appearance of any* thing rather than forgetfulness, " I don't at all remember. I worCt remember," she added, pre- sently, with renewed briskness; and then she sighed heavily, and betrayed symptoms of rising tears. So Colonel Egerton, not by any means for the first time, had to relinquish his effort to lead her to think, if not to speak, of her married life. " If you young people do not hurry, we shall be first at the Green Pits." So it was the father himself who hastened them away together. " It seems curious to call that little valley the Green Pits," said Scot, as they walked slowly on along the path beside the river. " Do you see it — the hollow behind that rising ground on the river side, between it and the slope of the woods ? The cultivators of the Black Birches have always used it as their stackyard. It hardly needed the wall to make it a perfect area." "It is an ugly name for your stackyard," commented Doris, as she lightly ascended the hilly ground between it and the river ; " but it is in a very pretty place ; and how well stocked THE squire's legacy. 285 it is ! What are those two curious old wooden buildings near the gate?" "Dilapidated barns. Aunt Michal believes, Miss Egerton, that some day the Green Pits will open from below, and swallow up the whola of my riches — represented by those piles of hay and corn — at a gulp." " But are there really pits below ?" He laughed into her wondering eyes. "No one would have used it as a stackyard if there had been. The legend is too old to trace, but I believe that some two hundred years ago all these little natural valleys were called green pits — poetical nomenclature, isn't it? — and th6 name has clung to this one." They had reached the highest part of the meadow now, and Doris was leaning on the gate in the hedge which bounded it, just under the three birches, and looking down ; her eyes resting first where the crimson light rose and fell upon the rippling water, then on the Dower House upon the height, and then on the farm below. Scot leaned upon the gate too, and his eyes followed hers ; and yet it seemed that the only picture which they saw was the girl who stood under the trees, while they shed their 286 THE squire's legacy. golden leaves around her softly and caressingly. " Seen in this light," said Doris, with the childlike naturalness which essentially belonged to her, and which made her always touch deli- cately and pleasantly on any subject, "our homes look as warm and bright and pleasant without, as our love and sympathy can make them within." He understood even more than the words might have conveyed, yet he did not try to answer, as he stood beside her, looking from her home, on its sunny height, down to the old farm where lay the slanting rays of sunset. But through all the struggles and the passion of the time to come he never forgot the calm, delicious peace of those few moments. Easily at last, by the most natural interruption in the world, the silence was broken. Liath came from the meadow behind, leading an unbroken young horse, whose nose touched his knees as he stepped daintily back from Liath's guidance. " Cert'nly the owld lad's in him to-day, sir," observed Liath, after his salute to Miss Egerton — a salute which amused Scot, for he saw that there was pleasure with the respect, and that these two had met before — " he aschally walked THE squire's legacy. 287 over th' 'urdles like a joke, and one of his leps, afore I caught him, must have bin nigh upon thirty foot. What we're to do with him I canna see, yet he's jest a picter, sir." "Are you quite well, Liath?" asked Doris, when Scot had laid his hand upon the glossy black coat of the young horse, and was trying to tempt him on. « Quite well in myself thenk ye, miss ; but there's a scruciable pain in my back gin'rally now, as puts me out, coz I can't understand it. I know what riz it this time," he mut- tered, as she stood still beside him; "it was yesterdy, when I see'd th' 'ounds in full swing, and the gen'men 'thout the master. If he 'ud jest " "So I will," put in Scot, turning to show that he heard the mumbled remark. "I am only waiting till I have broken Vaulter." " Is the name of that horse Vaulter ?" asked Doris, watching Liath lead him off. Scot answered, with a laugh : " The colt was sold to me as Voltaire, but I have never heard Liath mention him but as Vaulter ; and the name does very welL" " It suits him too," smiled Doris, wondering 288 THE squire's legacy. whether this young untrained horse was the sole remnant of the famous Eingswood stud, of which her father had told her. And it was this very thought which framed her answer to hi& remark — " You ride, Miss Egerton, I know." "Sometimes. I wish it were oftener; but papa prefers walking, and Kenneth" (with a fresh little laugh) " prefers strolling or sitting- I have no one else to take me." " But, as I have seen, Colonel Egerton does not object to your riding only with a groom ;. and I heard Mr, Levey beg that he might sometimes accompany you." "Yes, I must not forget that," said Doris, with a grave shake of her head. " He says that Hero — that's my horse, Mr. Monkton, such a beautiful roan ! — is not safe for me, and he called her a * brilliant fencer.' What does that mean t" " He means," Scot said, coolly changing the pronoun, " to recommend you a creature who takes more kindly to the highways of life ; and, following the well-beaten track, keeps a well- defined hedge on either side." "But any horse can take me so — steadily and slowly along the turnpike road," observed THB squire's legacy. 289 tbft girl, simply ; and Soot ?(rtw»*ii-nrstill wore simply, to all eeeming— " It is the easier and plainer way." ?'If we had been talking in metaphor, Mr. Monkton," said Doris, presently (sp brightly and daringly fanciful was the girl's nature, and so accustomed wag she $0 the romapce of her poet-lover, that imagery came natural to her even in ordinary conversation), "we should have praised Mr. Levey for his preference for the plain highway." " Yes, if we had been talking in metaphor. "The Miss Leveys ride a great deal, Miss Egerton, as well as their brother," added Scot, presently, " so you will have plenty of invita- tions. Miss Chamberlain never rides." "If she did " began Doris, #nd then stopped. The young man turned, and saw the proud, impatient look, fleeting as it w$s. " Margaret Chamberlain is my gre^t friend," he said. " She — -r-" Doris had nearly explained Mar- garet's claim to her displeasure, bqt corrected herself. "She has such a provoking air of VOL. I. U 290 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. mystery about her/' the girl added, staying beside the hedge to eat a sloe, which she could not bear ; " you know she has." " If so, it is the mystery of good thoughts and words and acts." " I wish," said Doris, while she stood deliber- ately to turn a fungus with her foot, and looked down upon it, " that everybody would not talk to me of Miss Chamberlain ; I — I grow angry and wrong when I speak of her." "But, if you would think " She interrupted Scot petulantly, as she raised her head. " It is when I think that I hate her most. Please don't ask me to think." "Mr. Monkton, how sad it was that you should lose all those cattle and sheep just in one week !" When Doris broke the silence with this irrelevant remark they had reached the path between the Black Birches and the river, and it was just in the momentary pause which fol- lowed, that the eyes of both chanced to rest upon a figure walking, with a heavy, swinging step, along the wider, well-formed path upon the other side of the water. THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 291 "Monsieur Sourdet seems to appreciate a sunset view in the park," said Scot, composed-^ ly ; and then he answered Doris's question just as composedly, and told her the amount of his loss both in cattle and sheep. After she had discussed this, gently and sympathetically, there seemed to come back to her his first speech. " Monsieur Sourdet," she repeated, reflective- ly. " Is he the foreigner who is staying now at Anna Wakeley's cottage ?" "Yes. Then even you have heard of him, MissEgertonr With perfect distinctness Doris recollected the dislike the woman had shown for the foreigner, •when her husband had bidden her go home and prepare for him on the day of the late Squire's funeral : but of course she could not mention this, and so recall that day to Scot. She turned the subject aside, with that rare and delicate tact which can flourish only in "a heart at leisure from itself"; and when, ten minutes afterwards, Scot opened the gate at the Black Birches, she was chatting gaily of her foreign tour, not — as the old lawyer had curtly advised her never to do — " grouping her u 2 292 THE squire's legacy. pictures with one I," but merrily comparing notes with Mr. Monkton. " I should think, Miss Egerton," dolefhlly re- marked Miss Michal, when the young people had joined her and Colonel Egerton in the garden, " that you are heartily sick by now of looking across the turnip-fields." " I'm like a certain great poet in one respeot, Miss Windish," said Doris, her face bright with unfeigned enjoyment, "I'm very fond of turnips." " At any rate you must go home in this shawl of mine, or we shall have you bronchial and rheumatic all your life." How could Scot help laughing while Dori* was beipg bundled up in the huge plaid garment which left nothing visible but her face? So stiffly was her neck pinioned, that wh$n she wanted to turn her head to nod a good-bye from the bridge, she was obliged to veer entirely round, and stand to do it. "Well, Doris?" " I liked it very much," she said, thoroughly understanding her father's interrogatory word* " But, please, papa, as Miss Windish is an old friend of yours, will you ask her to call me Doris? I should like it." THE squire's legacy. 293 "Certainly, in good time. So you like her, too ?" " I like it all so much." It all! Yes; saunter, Doris, in the quiet twilight, with your thoughts and heart so full; and stand as long as you will, looking back upon that spot where you lingered in your walk — you and the master of the old house ; for the birches will soon lose their golden dress, and never again can you and he walk alone together, free from pain and presage, or from that name- less shadow which shapes itself far off to-night I END Or THE FIRST VOLUME. CHAPTER I. " A UNT MICHAL, we must give a dinner- jljL party." If the three birch-trees on the height had fallen at once with a crash, Miss Windish could not have started back in greater alarm. "Scot, what do you meant Oh! my dear, what do you mean ?" " That we had better give a dinner-party," repeated Scot, unabashed. He had just come in from his last visit round the farm, on the night after Colonel Egerton's call, and, as his greeting had roused Miss Michal from her surreptitious postprandial " winks," it had taken her at a double disadvantage. VOL. n. B 2 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. " You never knew, I'm sure, at Kingswood, what was the expense of a dinner-party," she moaned. " But ours will not be a Kingswood dinner- party." Miss Michal answered this remark only by a heavy sigh. Her least hopeless idea was that a dinner-party here could be only an utterly ruinous failure. She sat rocking herself dole- fully to and fro in the very front of the wood fire; and her eyes glittered and blinked as if two sparks had found their way in. "I might have expected this," she said at last ; " I've expected something to happen ever since you brought those snowdrops in, the first day we came. It is always unlucky to a house when the master or mistress carries in the first snowdrops. " And our party is to be the ill-luck ? Well, considering all things, Aunt Michal, I don't think the Fates are coming down upon us very hard about those snowdrops. Now let us talk it over." Talk it over I This was bringing the reality home with a terrible defiuiteness. Of course, if Scot thought it worth while to talk it over, he THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 3 meant to do it ; and he seemed just as com- fortable as if it were easier to provide a dinner which would escape the censure of twelve criti- cal souls, who had nothing to do but censure, than to supply the daily dual meal of mackerel and mutton, to which hunger was so generous a sauce. A dinner-party, to Miss Michal, meant an unending perspective of the most expensive dainties in the world; the most extravagant wines and most unattainable fruits, with un- limited decorations, and inexplicable culinary mysteries. And here was she dependent on the fish Scot caught, the mutton Liath killed, the poultry Elizabeth always spoiled in the plucking, and the sweets her own awkward and inexperi- enced fingers manufactured ; while, as for wine and fruits — she had serious thoughts of bringing the whole contents of the cellar and the apple- room before Scot this instant, practically to con- vince him of the absurdity of his project. " Let's have a look at the account-books," he said, searching among the papers and pam- phlets on a side-table. " We had better see our way clearly, hadn't we, Aunt Michal f " " I don't care to see my way clearly to ex- travagance and ruin," returned Miss Michal, B2 4 the squire's legacy. with an acceleration of energy in the rock* ing. "Don't you? Now I think it is the best way of all to see clearly, because then one can avoid it. Now, Aunt Michal, how do we stand?" he added, opening her neat little book on the table, and bending over it. "Here's October 24 — all right, that's to-day— soap, one shilling and fourpence. Oh, that doesn't balance us up to-day! Where shall I find a sort of epitome, where we can see our prospects by a coup-dfoeil? Is this it, on the opposite sheet? Eggs sold to tlie Vicarage, two shillings. Aunt Michal ! " Miss Windish looked up, really terrified by something in Scot's tone; not its suppressed anger — behind her barricade of tears Miss Michal was impervious to any fire of anger — but the shock of a keen humiliation. " It's absurd of you, Scot, my dear," she said, with an almost pathetic blending of sympathy for him and deprecation for herself, " to fancy it derogatory in us to — to sell what we have too much of. We ought to do it ; we're only farmers, and all farmers are expected to do it, and we want the money; and I hope next THE SQUIBE'S LEGACY. 5 Summer we shall have lots of things to sell ; chickens, and butter, and hams, and — oh, Scot!" But by the time the little lady's breathless speech had broken down entirely, Scot had lost that look which had so shocked her. "You are right, Aunt Michal," he said, quietly, as he closed and put aside the account- book; "we must earn what is possible, and even then I doubt whether we shall keep the wolf from the door for long. I had no right to startle you. But, though of course I sell what I can on the farm, I had never before imagined that you would have to suffer these mortifica- tions." 44 Mortifications ! I am never more pleased than when I pocket my own earnings — for the poultry is mine, you know, Scot. One penny a week a head Liath says I must allow for their keep, besides the scraps from the house; so there was a clear profit of two shillings and ninepence on the couple I sold yesterday. Fve calculated that that's five days' wages for Eliza- beth and a halfpenny over." Scot's laugh was very good to hear, after that pause of distress a few minutes before. 6 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. u But won't there be a sale somewhere pre- sently, Aunt Michal ?" " I fear not," sighed Miss Michal ; " I don't see one advertised, and I always look carefully. But what about that dinner-party, Scot ? Do think it well over before you decide upon it. Remember, the guests would be those who used to go to Kingswood, where there was every- thing which could satisfy the most fastidious. And, far better and more important still," added poor Miss Michal, overwhelmed at the thought, " servants who understood all about it, and made the success of the whole thing sure." But the lugubrious regrets and anticipations were alike unavailing, for with pleasant, good- humoured determination, Scot turned aside, or overcame, all the obstacles she erected. Credit- ably she went through the various stages of depression, but, when the culminating point of decision was reached, and the day fixed, she had apparently no intention of subsiding into a limp nonentity, so braced herself for the coming struggle. Fortunately, just then Elizabeth brought in the tea-tray, and Miss Michal found speedy con- solation in imbibing two cups of her favourite THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 7 beverage. She had the tray on a little table on the hearth-rug, between herself and Scot ; but he had begun to write so busily that, in spite of her incessant reminders, he did not turn to take his tea until, as she told him, it was as cold as charity. " Then it's about the warmest and pleasantest thing on earth," said Scot, still engrossed in his writing. " I shall be ready in one moment, Aunt Miohal ; this is the last. I've only invited the EgertonB, and the Chamberlains, and the Leveys, except Colonel Graham and two of the other officers — Oresford, of course, because he's such a friend of Violet Levey's, and Major Porter. That will do, won't it, with our Vicar and his wife ?" " Do I" repeated Miss Michal. " That will be twelve without ourselves — I mean if Steven Chamberlain comes ; and he is sure to come at your invitation. Just look at the size of these rooms 1" "But my looking won't make them any larger, Aunt Michal." " And the sbabbiness of this chintz !" " Be cheered by the old riddle. The chairs and couches will all be satin that night." 8 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. "If I could get a lot of damask at a sale ! " put in Miss Michal, in a tone of such deep solicitude that it was no wonder Scot laughed. " Do drink your tea/' fretted Miss Michal, as he folded his last letter; "or else — yes, 1 thought so!" she added, in a tone of brisk conviction, when Liath entered to summon his master. Left alone, she recommenced her slow, deli- berate rocking, and moaned to herself for com- pany. That he should have to go at all hours of the evening to see about the animals and grain, just at the summons of an old farm- labourer, while she recalled the time when his own quiet and deferential servants had never dared to disturb him! And that he should have to manage and economise over this din- ner-party, when, by only an act of his own will, he would have been able to entertain Colonel Egerton and his friends in such royal style, and without one thought to the labour, or difficulty, or expense! It was no wonder that she looked more pensive even than usual when Scot came in again. After this, time seemed to speed with giant THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 9 strides for Miss Windish until the day of the dinner-party came. Scot had enlisted efficient aid, for Sutton and his wife, the butler and housekeeper from Kingswood, had taken the White Lion at Minton, and there was nothing which Mr. Monkton could have proposed to them that they would not eagerly have done for him. They drove out to the Black Birches that morning in their comfortable gig, and took quietly upon themselves every item of prepara- tion; the experienced butler politely setting aside Liath's willing but awkward help, and his wife chatting a good deal to hide the fact that she totally neglected Miss Windish's advice or proffered assistance. When Scot came home late in the afternoon, Miss Michal gave vent to the direst of her dire complaints. "Oh, Scot, I'm not a bit of use! Mrs. Sutton has done everything in the kitchen, and Sutton has laid the table and prepared the rooms ; and — I'm no good !" " You are a great deal of good to me, Aunt Michal," said Soot, promptly and kindly. " Do you think I should ever have thought of giving, a party if the labour had to fall upon you V Tou 10 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. are hostess, you know. Who could take that onerous post from yon !" '• It's kind of yon to say so, of course/' mourn- ed the little lady, with a gentle application of her handkerchief to her eyes, "but Fm not necessary. for anything — and — only a burden! Oh, Scot," she added, with her characteristic change of tone, "just think of the Snttons bringing over the silver your father gave themfor their wedding present J It was so lucky " The flush on young Monkton's face stopped her. Even she was learning now to detect these stabs which he found it so hard to bear and to hide. "My dear Scot," she said, in haste, "it is all very nice, and your things are put ready for you. Sutton said you shouldn't miss Artaud just for this one night, See how well every- thing looks. Wasn't it lucky everyone accepted, because it makes it all so equal — six on each side, and we two at the head and foot. As Liath said just now, when he peeped in, it is real ' cemetry.' Now Tm going to dress." Scot took out his watch with a smile. . " * Pour hours — and who could do it in less ? — by haughty Coelia spent in dressing P Aunt THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 11 Michal," — a little pause, while he put back hi* watch, and glanced down the table — cl how shall you pair your guests ?" "My dear/' said Miss Michal, with an unexpected show of mild dignity, " if you have any wishes on the subject, or suggestions to offer, pray offer them ; otherwise " " I only thought," remarked Scot, with great carelessness, " that you had better give Violet Levey to Captain Gresford; and — let Steven Chamberlain take Miss Egerton." " Then Mr. Levey will be mad," put in Miss Windish, briskly. "Ever since the Egertons have been here, it has been plain to see that he has been infatuated. Don't you think I had better " " As you like, Aunt Michal, but I should have thought you would care more for Steven tfean for Levey." And whether because she really did, or whether it was because she cared more for Scot than either, certain it is that Doris was sent into the dining-room on the arm of the gentleman with the gentle eyes and the long fair beard, about whom she had questioned Kenneth on her first Sunday at Eingswood Church. 12 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. Two or three times Miss Michal's eyes fasten- ed themselves in astonishment on the pair, as if it were unusual to see Steven Chamberlain conversing; yet there were times when she could have felt no astonishment, because he was gravely and profoundly silent. These were the intervals when Doris, in a little spirit of womanly pique, shut herself within herself, and decided that she would not, all through the meal, be the first to start a subject of discussion, and prove the merriest in small talk. Then arose again her more natural and generous impulses, and Steven's grey, dreamy eyes brightened, and he talked well and quietly — very well, thought Doris, and remarkably quietly ; only that he had a trick of ending his sentences abruptly, as if he had intended to make them longer, but had suddenly changed his mind. Margaret Chamberlain, sitting nearly opposite to Doris, took what seemed to more than one of the party an inexplicable interest in the tete-h-tite. " She is jealous of her brother," thought her next neighbour, Bernard Levey, his own feelings colouring the thought. "I shall not trouble myself to entertain her any more." THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 13 " She is sick of her own companion/' thought the Vicar's wife; "he has taken no pains to amuse or interest her ; yet how anxious he has hitherto been to ingratiate himself with her and Steven, as with everybody whom he knew to be of high birth!" But, when Doris once caught the look of pleasure and gentle interest on Margaret's face, her own suddenly clouded, and the cold expres- sion so out of place upon it, held its momentary sway. Margaret Chamberlain dropped her eyes upon her plate, and only two others at the table noticed it. Rose Levey glanced swiftly from one to the other, feeling that Margaret Chamber- lain could not mind the conceit of a girl at least ten years younger than herself, unless she had some motive in seeking her good-will; and their host could not help a brief glance of annoyance before he addressed Margaret. After all, the dinner — much to Miss Michal's astonishment — passed over without a hitch or hindrance ; and she owned to herself that, even without the rarities and luxuries of Kingswood, Sutton could insure the perfection of a meal ; and even here, in these small, ugly rooms, Scot was so easy and so perfect a host that no one 14 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. felt as if anything was missing. Strange to say, it was this very thought which made poor little Miss Michal's eyes so moist when she timidly rose to pilot the ladies. " It is so hard and un- natural," she whispered in her thoughts, with the quietest little gasp in her breath, " to think of his having only such a place as this ever again to call his home; and he to look so happy here !" — by which it would appear that, in Miss Michal's blinking eyes, this was a great aggra- vation of the offence. Haifa day of Sutton's devotion had made the drawing-room so convenient and so bright that Miss Windish, for at least ten minutes after her re-entrance, was lost in admiration of the changes in the prim bestowal of the furniture, -and at the lights, so cleverly arranged to show off the best at its best, and keep the worst in the shade ; while she nodded irrelevantly in an- swer to the remarks of Doris, who had come up to share her little couch, and who went on chatting gaily and gently, in spite of the irrele- vancy of the answering observations. So it had gone on through ten minutes, and Sutton had. left them each provided with a cup of coffee — unexcelled, as he was fully aware, THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 15 even at Kingswood — when Margaret Chamber- lain came quietly across from her seat at the window, and, taking possession of an ottoman near Doris, spoke to her with a perfectly per- ceptible hesitation in her low voice. " Are you beginning to feel at home now at Kingswood, Miss Egerton ?" Doris raised her cup, and sipped her coffee coolly while Margaret spoke, and then her lips were chill as if it had been ice they had im- bibed. " It is home, Miss Chamberlain. It has been home to me from the first day I came." « And you like it ?" " Like it ? Tes "—with a cold abruptness, — "I like it." " Of course Colonel Egerton does, or he would not have returned here." " Indeed he would not have returned, if he had not liked the house and the country." There was nothing in the words themselves ; yet what Doris had meant her companion to feel she evidently felt, for her face was fer graver than its wont when Doris, resigning her seat, even passed away to join another group, so quiet- ly that no one could possibly guess she did it in 1* THE avoidance cf Mis Chamberlain — no oce, that blet Levey, with a vacant sett beside her, turned twir frcm a larv conversation with the wife of the Vicar of Kingswood, to motion Doris to an adjacent seat. "I think,' Mrs. Hemes was saying; in her quiet, sensible way. "that yon hare no need, IGbb Lerey, to expend so great an amount of pity upon Mr. Monkton. The rare power of mAing the best of everything, and taking the worst so pleasantly, does not make him a man to be pitied — pray do not think so.** "But," said Violet, in her languid, determin- ed tones, "he most softer so very much." a How acutely those strong, sensitive tempera- ments do softer, we most of ns can never even guess," retained Mrs. Henries, in a manner which betrayed her desire to change the subject* And then Violet turned to Doris, and conversed on various small topics, until the gentlemen saun- tered in — for do not gentlemen feel it their bounden duty to saunter, whether anxious or in* different about the assembled feminine throng ? The vacant seat beside Violet Levey was taken in a leisurely manner by Captain Gres- THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 17 ford, for whom possibly it had been reserved, though Violet's eyes had been lifted rather +f y eagerly when her host had passed within reach of it. But not so carelessly oould Scot pass her sister. She looked up with a smile, and ad* dressed him so pointedly that he took the empty seat, and answered her nonsense with gayer and greater nonsense. " I had no idea, Mr. Monkton," she said, pre- sently, when the nonsense was exhausted; " how pretty this house really was inside. This is a charming room.' 9 " To-night/' assented Scot, cpurteously : " but its charms are not native," Rose, with a smile, looked down upon her gorgeous tunic of white bugles, which, as she had anticipated, was causing a great astonish- ment to-night; and the large white fingers rested there with all their jewels flashing. But Scot's eyes left these attractions without over- powering regret, and wandered to the farther window, near which sat Margaret Chamberlain, with a book in her hand, a strange stillness in her attitude, and an unusual sombreness in her dress of mourning net— It was twelve years at least since Margaret had taken her father away vol. n. c 5 18 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. from Cornel j Place, and returned alone, after seeking in Tain for health for him ; hat not even jet had she left off the mourning dress. How canons it was that, without the cause being de- finable, there should he in her whole appearance and manner such a strange sad air of isolation ; u while others " — perhaps it was only a chance which led Scot's eyes just then to where Doris, in her long, soft dress of palest blue, with no ornament in the sunny twist of hair, walked quietly across the room from her seat beside Violet Levey, and spoke to Mr. Chamberlain, who sat looking absently among the flowers near him. — " While others," mused Scot, finish- ing his thought, as he watched her speak to him with that bright girlish ease which was earnest as well as piquant, u seem as if isolation would be impossible to them, and " — when Ste- ven turned brightly from his long, thoughtful gaze — "and prevent isolation being even possi- ble in their presence/' "It seems to me, Mr. Monkton," observed Miss Levey, perhaps following his intent and rather amused gaze, " that Miss Egerton feels she has discovered a kindred spirit in that shy, eccentric Mr. Chamberlain. Think of her going THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 19 up to him in that way, and sitting down and chatting as if they had known each other for years ! There must be some affinity between them — mustn't there 1" " Certainly," assented Scot, though without returning Miss Levey's smile. IC There is al- ways an affinity between noble and romantic natures." " Mr. Monkton," said Rose, her smile growing broader, " what an excellent one you are at a joke J You do it so gravely. But really I don't see why Miss Egerton should not be a nice girl, in spite of her unformed manners — schoolgirlish let us say, for I don't know why we need accuse her of anything else. Girls do get that flippant, self-satisfied manner at a boarding-school, I'm sorry to say ; and no doubt Miss Egerton will lose it as she gains know- ledge of the world. Conceit is so very ugly — isn't it, Mr. Monkton t" 11 Don't our old poets talk with pride of a * pretty conceit K' " "Do they?" Miss Levey asked, innocently. " I should never have guessed it. I think it is such a very unpleasant quality. It is as bad to be conceited as to be a flirt ; though perhaps of c2 22 THE SQUIRE'S LEGAOr, • one who could so falsely read the thoughts of another. "You are too bad. As for me, I really think her pretty ; putting her behaviour out of the question, I will maintain that there is something pretty in her fece. Violet says I am prejudiced in her favour, for she cannot get any others to own that they see a grain of prettiness in her; and Bernard considers that the deficiency of character in her face is so very striking." "Your brother is a good judge," remarked Scot, in his leisurely way, "and the opinion from him is high praise, for it is evident lie objects to character in a face." Rose's fingers impatiently toyed with the? bugles. How could she be expected to carry on this conversation sensibly, while she was ia the dark as to her companion's real xeception of her remarks ? For instance, did he mean, by that last speech, that of course he. saw Bernard's unequivocal admiration for the face without character? And did he really think ? But no ; it was impossible to tell what he did think. Would he never — even here, where he really was poor and almost insignificant, and where many people as rich as she might have THE squire's legaot. 23. been inclined to look down upon him — lose his polite, but always thoroughly independent cool- ness? " Of course, if young Mr. Bradford were here to-night," resumed Miss Levey, presently, with a renewed lightness of tone, " Miss Egerton would be more decorous and grave, and would not make such a point of engrossing Mr* Chamberlain. In his absence I can forgive her, and I hope you do also. It is scarcely her fault if she has not studied deeper things. I daresay, after her marriage, it will be different. It is to take place very soon, for all the final arrangements were made during Mr. Bradford's last visit at the Dower House. You heard this, Mr. Monkton?" "Did IT I really forget; but you are sure to be right." " Mr. Kenneth Bradford is the son of your solicitor, is he not f " « He is the son of an old and valued friend of mine, as well as of my father, Miss Levey ; and a most uncommon fellow — a dreamer and a poet ; generous and tender-hearted." " Then Miss Egerton ought to be very happy in her married life." 24 THE squire's legacy. " I should say there is not a shadow of doobt about it." "And I really hope, Mr. Monkton, that you can feel as confident of Mr. Bradford's happi- ness/' " As for that,'' returned Scot, solemnly, rising as he spoke, " of course he chose with his eyes open, and he must take the consequences. Will you not play to us, Miss L&vey ?" As Rose never played anything but the accompaniments to a certain set of glees in which her brother and sister were strong, and for which there were generally further recruits available, this was a signal for the concerted music to begin. Captain Oresford willingly appropriated the bass parts, and sang them fortissimo, with his eyebrows very high, and his chin resting on his tie. Bernard Levey warbled the tenor, placidly and correctly, satisfying himself, and apparently satisfying his audience, for no one could have told exactly what they missed* Mrs. Herries came pleasantly forward when requested, and made a clear and pleasant alto ; while Violet Levey, throwing her head back with every high note, and feeling her way up to it, effectually robbed each air of its THE squire's legacy. 25 pathos and its beauty, and, to the letter, per- formed the usual office of an inartistio soprano, by piercing her way through the other parts, and leaving them nowhere. " I can forgive her pride to me when I see how pleasant she has been with Steven." It was almost as if Margaret Chamberlain thought the words only, so quietly and naturally she said them to Scot, while he sat beside her, and Violet Levey's voice, pirouetting upwards, alighted in safety upon an F sharp — very sharp —of surprising power. " It is quite peculiarly kind and thoughtful, her manner to Steven — isn't it?" Margaret went on. " It quite makes up to me." Perhaps Scot wondered why it should " make up " to her for any coldness from a younger girl, but if he did he said no word of this. The vocalists finished their request to each other to " Come, fairies, trip it," and, starting off on a new tack, cried in shrill and rousing tones, " Oh, hush thee, my baby 1" The two Colonels— probably with a pleasant conviction of not being particularly addressed — fell into a cheerful and irrelevant dialogue, which ended in cribbage. The Vicar, conscious of being, 26 THE SQUIRE'S legacy. through his wife, connected with the glee, listened as devoutly as if he had been the baby in question; one ear pointed to the ceiling, and his spoon going smoothly and noiselessly round and round in his cup ; while his yearning eyes rested upon Miss Michal, who was feebly holding forth to Major Porter on a subject in which the good Vicar's soul delighted — the new athletic and cricket clubs at Minton* Doris Egerton still sat near the flower-stand with Steven Chamberlain, sipping her tea, and be- tween the pauses of listening chatting on in her gay, gentle way, while first one and then another joined them for a minute, and while Scot, from his low chair near Margaret, looked on and wondered. He had seen, more than once that evening, how she had repulsed Miss Chamberlain's gentle overtures of friendship, and yet here was this pleasant sociability with one who did so little himself to stimulate it, and who was, after all, so nearly connected with Margaret. Such conduct was so comical in Scot's eyes, that he had hard work even to prevent a ? laugh. The energetic lullaby was over now, and the performers dispersed in a shower of remarks THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 27 'which burst forth as if the final chord had been the fall of a barricade, behind which the impeded conversation had been growing in bulk and volume during its temporary imprisonment. Mr. Bernard Levey, without a moment's hesi- tation, came up to Doris, and comfortably established himself near her. Probably Monkton would presently be prevailed upon to play, and if so, Bernard would lose the temporary advan- tage the glees had given him. But in the meantime, what other man in the room could have contributed such a tenor ? Presently he would (if pressed) show them the true musical rendering and real poetic fervour of "Her bright smile haunts me still;" and then what would it signify even if Monkton did play ? What would it signify ? The very framing of the thought betrayed Bernard's weak point* It was mortifying indeed ; for, in spite of his immaculate toilet and his clear cadenzas, in spite of his white hands and regular features, he had not even to-night reached that point which he had deemed it would be so easy to reach here and now — that point of conscious superiority over the young man who, as heir of Kingswood, had for him possessed unconscious- 28 THE squire's legacy. ]y such an unpleasantly rasping power. No ; Bernard's dreams, after to-night, must be confessed as doubly futile. Even here, in this pettifogging farm, hard-worked most probably, and certainly poor, there was still something in Scot Monkton which Mr. Levey could not reach. Yet surreptitiously he was trying now — as indefatigably as he had ever tried — to imitate it. "I cannot understand it," he mused to him- self, in the pauses of his energetic claim to Miss Egerton's attention. "It must be something in the blue blood." " You play, of course, Miss Egerton ? Any one with a glance into your face can see that you are musical." " A glance into my face would leave a wide field for conjecture," laughed Doris— not at all in the tone she had used to Mr. Chamberlain. " A very bright and beautiful field," ventured Bernard, his smile as broad, and his admiration as undisguised as his compliment. Then he paused. Though he felt so serenely confident that he would have little difficulty in winning Doris when he chose to display all his powers, he THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 29 knew it was not even now too soon to put forth the tender shoots, and after that flowery speech a little silence would be telling. In this silenoe Mr. Levey anxiously watched the effect of his words, at the same time wishing he were a greater adept in the art of looking at ease, whether he felt so or not — an art in which he was keenly and jealously aware that Scot Monkton always excelled him, though he could be, by no means, keenly aware of the fact that Scot's power lay in the total absence of any thought at all about it. But in this silence came a heavy blow to young Levey. Before the smile had died on Doris Egerton's lips, after her companion's novel compliment, and even before her wonder* ing eyes had quite turned away from her com* panion's face, Scot Monkton had — as Bernard expressed it to himself, in his chagrin — obtruded himself where he was not needed, and taken Doris off to the piano. She played a Lied of Mendelssohn's with a wide, sweet spirit in the touch and interpreta- tion ; while Violet Levey whispered to Captain Gresford, with a smile, that it made her sleepy; and while little Miss Michal leaned her head 30 THE squire's legacy, upon her hand, and wondered why it was harder now to talk about the cricket club, although the room was so muoh quieter ; and while Scot stood back a little from the instru- ment, letting Rose Levey wait in vain to meet his eyes. It was only the Vicar's wife who came forward when Doris paused, and asked her to sing to them; but the girl answered in that manner which is gentlest and pleasantest ot all — by a prompt acquiescence. She sang Liszt's wonderful music to that beautiful night- song of Goethe's, " Ueber alien Gipfeln ist Ruke." The almost unearthly calm, both of words and setting, held her listeners entranced, and the marvellous beauty of the modulation at the olose was sad and dreamy, as all real sweetness •and perfection is. " Thank you — beautiful — thank you !" The words were uttered by several voices in a buzz, when Doris let her hands fall in her lap; but she knew there were two or three who bad not joined that chorus of thanks and praise. She turned and looked up at Scot. " Did you like it !" she asked, simply. THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 31 A smile broke in a moment over his dreaming face, and he came forward — alert in the present, as it was ever in his nature to be. It was not until some time afterwards — when Violet Levey, aiter begging in vain to accom- pany Mr. Monkton, had been prevailed upon to accompany her brother instead — that for the first time Scot lingered voluntarily beside Doris, where he could speak to her without his words being intended for half a dozen other pairs of ears ; and yet, though it was such a gentle, anxious speech, it was the one, of all others, which she could most easily resent. " I have been so sorry not to see you join Miss Chamberlain at all. I had hoped you would be friends." " I don't like her," said Doris, tersely. « She is " "But I quite agree with Mr. Levey," she interrupted, smiling ; " her hair is very neat." " How cruel you girls oan be to each other," said Scot, betraying his unfeigned astonish- ment; "yet, Miss Egerton, how plainly you read the spirit of the musio of a man who could love widely and as a brother I " "You don't understand, Mr. Monkton," re- 32 THE squire's legacy. turned the girl, with an amusing air of dignity. " I shall never choose to like Miss Chamberlain, or to say she is clever, or nice, or handsome." " As for being clever," said Scot, coolly, " she has learned a far wider knowledge than most girls can ever dream of ; and, as for her being nice, it simply depends upon your power of appreciation ; while, as for her being handsome, I should like to see the face for which beauty alone can do what goodness does for hers." But, kindly and warmly as he spoke, he had had no wish to bring that wistful look into his young guest's eyes ; so he changed his tone for the next question. " Don't you wish that Miss Chamberlain had written a book?" "Why?" " I don't know ; only I remember Job says, ' Oh that mine adversary had written a book !' as if it would be a grand thing ; but perhaps Job was a reviewer in those days." "1 don't think Job meant anything unkind," said Doris, with an unpleasant conviction that her enmity stood paraded before her in des- picable colours and proportions at that moment. " I always thought he meant the reverse. THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 33 He" — with a burst of honesty — "was very different from me." "Very," assented Scot, with great com- posure* " I know you think me contemptible," Doris went on, with pretty childlike earnestness; "but, if you had a sister, Mr. Monkton, she would understand, I think." Some one called him just then, and Doris's big blue eyes grew grave almost to sadness, and refused to brighten again, even when Mr. Levey renewed his blandishments, and when laughter and music and conversation were holding uninterrupted sway. The evening had worn to its margin, and Mrs. Hemes was meditating a whisper with her husband as to the advisability of ordering their little phaeton, when Rose Levey, in a spirit of unexpected friendliness, slipped her hand through Doris Egerton's arm, and drew her from Bernard's compliments and Major Porter's jokes* "It is very inconvenient to have only one room to sit in," she whispered, leading Doris to- wards the door ; " but the hall is utilised for to- night. Come and see how pleasant it is there." VOL. n. D 34 THE squire's legacy. "It is pleasant in the drawing-room too/' said Doris, always loyal to the absent. " I think it most pleasant everywhere." " Oh, yes, yes — of course," assented Rose, in a nervous, pre-occupied manner ; " but I like to walk here a little — don't vou ! It is so cool and so fresh, and yet not cold, and— did you notice when Miss Chamberlain left the room ?" "No; did she leave it?" questioned Doris, without any interest. . " Yes, in a most extraordinary manner. We will stand a minute, if you like ; but don't draw that curtain yet; there is a glass door leading out into the garden behind the house. Tes, she left the room five minutes ago, for no cause what- ever. It is some secret plan of her own, for at- tracting Mr.Monkton. I came out here presently, and we heard voices — Vi and Captain Gresford were here too — and I drew back this curtain, and saw her and Mr. Monkton strolling away together. You may well start, Miss Egerton. I dropped the curtain again in a moment, be- cause of the lights in here ; but I knew they hadn't seen me. They " — Rose's voice sank to a whisper here — "are down at the gate now, talking still. I've been upstairs to look out THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 35 from a dark window in the lobby — come." " No, thank you," said Doris, drawing back, proudly, but quite gently ; " I do not like the dark." " Oh, nonsense !" cried Rose, too much excit- ed to be amused by the evidently feigned excuse, and reading nothing of the shame that Doris felt in being conscious that her own -conduct to Margaret Chamberlain had encour- aged this confidence. " You ought to see, because everybody ought to be warned against treachery in friends." Of course it would have been easy for Doris to say, with truth, that Margaret Chamberlain was no friend of hers ; but, uttered just then, and in answer to Rose Levey's speech, the reply would have been too mean to be framed by the girl's* lips, even if it could have been conceived in her heart. "Let us go in again," she said, shivering, though her hands were soft and warm, and a faint, bright glow was on her cheeks. "No, let us run upstairs *for a moment," pleaded Rose, energetically. u I want you just to see how sly girls can be." " I will take the fact on trust, please," smiled d2 36 THE squire's legacy. Doris. And — though she could suspect nothing- of that conversation Rose had had with Scot about herself in which lurked a fuller lesson on the question of how sly girls can be — she steadfastly set her face against following Rose upstairs. Though in reality not many minutes, it seemed to Doris that an interminable time pass- ed after she had returned to the party before her father rose and asked her, with a smile, if she was ready. The carriage had arrived from the Dower House to fetch them, so Doris turned to say good-bye to Miss Michal ; and just at that min- ute Scot re-entered the room, his manner quite perceptibly hurried, for all his native cool- ness. " I am so sorry you are hastening away," he said, taking the long crimson cloak from Sutton, and opening it for Doris ; " I had hoped to hear you sing once more." She glanced up into his face. Could he think she did not see that his thoughts were far off* and would not follow the words ? - ~1 THE squire's legacy. 37 " That's the wrong side, Mr. Monkton, please." It was with a pleasant smile she spoke, but he had no smile. " You had promised my aunt to sing one or two old favourites of hers— do you forget ? She was so pleased, because she never hears her own songs. Is it quite too late to ask you ¥" " ' I cannot/ " she said, standing still in the long cloak Scot was buttoning. " ' — sing the old songs now. It is not that I deem thein low ; 'Tis that I can't remember how They go.' " He, stooping at his task, looked up now with a smile in his warm eyes ; and Doris glanced down to meet it. She had read a good many novels, so she knew that people who are de- ceitful ought to betray the fact always by their eyes ; and, just as she was wondering whether it was because she was not in a novel that she could not read the fact in his, he went forward with swift cordiality to greet — Kenneth. Had she ever before in all her life turned to Kenneth with such longing and such gladness i " I prefer strolling up the Larch Walk with 38 THE squire's legacy. my cigar," said Colonel Egerton, buttoning his overcoat ; " I shall be at home as early as you young ones." So they drove away together, leaving the group that had gathered in the hall in old- fashioned courtesy. " I wish 1 had been with you," Kenneth said, as Doris told him of the party : " Mr. Monkton said he wished it too. What a host he makes, Doris, even there !" " I liked Mr. Chamberlain, Kenueth," she said, evidently wishing him to talk, yet wilful in the matter of subjects. "But he wasn't there — I noticed particu- larly." "He. was," asserted Doris, decisively; and then she added, a little less decisively — "he could not have left when you came." " Doris, how pretty you look !" "Do I?" she asked, but absently, for she was striving hard, but in vain, to recollect whether Steven could have left the party to seek his sister. " Mr. Monkton has such a way of " " Did you notice Miss Levey's dress, Ken?" But even this abrupt question did not show THE squire's legacy*. 39 Kenneth that Doris -would rather talk of any- one than Scot. He had something far more important to speak of than Miss Levey's dress* and in a few minutes he was in the midst of his eager anticipations, now grown so large and so gorgeous. Very quietly Doris listened, her hand in his, and her words bright, although so very few that, when they melted into silence, the change was hardly noticeable. * * * * * * * Only one window at the old farm had any light behind it when Doris turned away from her long, long watch at her own window — turned away with a new, faint, sad experience at her heart. " What a nice gentlemanly young fellow that Mr. Bradford is, Scot !" Miss Michal stood warming her toes before retiring, and, when she hurled this harmless conversational shaft, she was looking pensively down into the coals, with the crown of her little black lace cap turned to Scot, as he sat straight before the fire in her own low arm- chair. 40 THE squire's legacy. " I think it such an excellent thing for Miss Egerton that her future is settled — don't you, my dear ? Neither she nor her father has any anxiety about it now ; and when two young people grow up betrothed, it saves so much doubt, and disappointment, and 'heart-burning. Colonel Egerton told me they had been as good as engaged ever since they were children ; and of course, if so, Mr. Bradford has been able quite to form her mind to suit him. What a nice arrangement ! — isn't it, Scot?" " I heard of such another once," said Scot, lazily, " or read of it — I forget which. The man was an author, and a character — Day his name was ; of course you, like everybody else, have heard of him. He longed for a wife whose sympathies and tastes should be exactly his own, and so he educated a child on purpose. He tried the experiment most con- scientiously — fool's experiment as it was.''" " Well 1" " I forget all the particulars, but in the end the girl married his friend." " Well," observed Miss Michal, very placidly, " after all, it might have been a comfortable ending. If she found she couldn't love him, THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 41 she saved him from a great deal of unpleasant- ness by acting in time — don't you think so ?" No answer. Miss Michal changed the foot on the fender, and made a metaphorical step nearer bed by taking out her brooch. " What do you think yourself, Scot ? w she asked ; the question a mere part of her resting idleness. •' Nothing — except that the friend who stepped in between them must have been a rascal." ' 42 i l i CHAPTER II. KENNETH had come down to Kingswood, in his father's stead, to transact a certain matter of business with Mr. Monkton ; and so after breakfast next morning he prepared to walk to the Black Birches. " Must I wait, Doris, darling," he asked, as she rose from her seat, "until housekeeping affairs are off your mind f " " I am not coming Ken." " Oh yes, you will, love ! It is a rare Novem- ber morning, and I shall wait for you." " The walk will do you good, Doris ?" put in her father, wondering at her hesitation; "and Kenneth will enjoy it more with you than alone, though he is a poet, and ought to be solitary* 60 with him, darling, as far as the bridge, at any rate." So Doris ran off on her visit to the house- THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 43 keeper's room, and in five minutes appeared at Kenneth's side in the porch, her eyes bright and blue under a white felt hat of limp and un- certain tendencies, and her fingers planting a bunch of auriculas in the button-hole of her jacket. "Dissipation never hurts you, Doris," said Kenneth, as he looked into her face. " I sup- pose last night you came home and fell asleep peacefully (as a good and happy child should), and in the morning here are the sweet blush roses, and your eyes undimmed." " Indeed, Ken," she said, her mouth puckered solemnly as she gazed up into his worn face, " I slept very badly last night ; at least, I mean I hardly slept at all. Of course, you see, we all of us must expect to have, like Enoch Arden, our dark hour unseen. But I don't think of it, now I have you, Ken." " And how can I ever think regretfully of my own looks when I have you, my darling ?" he cried, never guessing that it had cost her any- thing to cheer him by that bright little proof of- sympathy which had been wrung from her by the praise that had unconsciously borne so much pathos. 44 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. Before they had reached the end of the Larch Walk, the jaded look had melted from Kenneth's face. How could it live in this double sunshine? Though even the larch leaves now were felling, still through the al- most leafless boughs the Winter sunshine fell ; and, far above, a skylark sang, in triumph, just the song which one little greenfinch, on a tiny twig, was patiently and humbly practising, with a cheery confidence that to do its best was as much as ought to be expected from any little songster — feathered or otherwise. But for Kenneth, sweet as were the rest and beauty of the Autumn morning, there was a fuller sunshine in his darling's sweet, warm, tender ways. Through all the happy hours and days that he remembered so well, had she ever been so kind as she was now ? How her eyes flashed and her cheeks glowed as he told her of the nearness of his great hope, and the advance in his great poem ! How her breath quickened and her eyes filled as he repeated to her its most passionate thoughts and graceful imagery ! And then -how her cheeks paled and her lips quivered when he told her how un- ceasingly he worked at it through every hour THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 45 he could spare, both from the day and night, in that quiet room of his into which he so often, in his weary moments, tried to bring her fancied presence. "Doris," he said, his heart very full, "the sweetest thought 1 have is that you will share the fame which I am working so hard to win. "But, Ken," she cried, with just one mo- ment's eager hope darting across the fear — which was even yet so vague — that this pur- suit was wearing him, "it is you I love. No fame would make you dearer to me than you are at this moment. I — oh, Ken, don't look so glad, please ! My love is such a little gift. It breaks my heart to see your gratitude for it." " Such a little gift P He only repeated the words dreamily as he paused upon the bridge, but it might well have frightened her to see the rapturous joy upon his face. "I shall wait here for you, Ken. I like waiting, so promise me not to hasten." "I promise indeed," he said, in his quiet, con- scientious way ; " for this is business of my father's. I hope my thoughts will not hover 46 THE SQUDUE'S LEGACY. here with you, my darling. Ton are sore you will not come on to the house V* u Quite sure. 79 ** But isn't it supposed to be the correct thing to call after a dinner-party f There's an irre- sistible argument ! Ton must do your duty in society, my dear." ** Papa will call, and, if he bids me, I will go," said Doris, with a chill in her voice, as she sat down upon the low grey wall. u Look! There's Miss Windish feeding her fowls— can you see ? Surely yon will come and have a chat with her ?" a Xo," said Doris, sturdily, though her eyes were almost longing in their pleasant gaze at the unconscious little black figure dispensing limited provision among the feathered epicures. "And you did not bring a book, did you ?" a No ; I shall sit and think." u Stay — I have in my pocket one I brought for my journey; I will leave it, because, if you have a book, you can read or think, as you like ; but, if you have no book, you have no choice. Good-bye, my darling.' 9 "Good-bye, Ken. Ton promise you won't let Mr* Monkton think you are in a hurry ?" THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 47 « " Indeed I do ; I would not for the world. He has never been impatient with me when pleas- anter things have awaited him ; and, besides that, I would not for my father's sake." Until he was quite out of sight, Doris's eyes followed him, that she might be ready with a recognition whenever he turned ; but when he could no longer see her, she left the bridge, and went and sat beside the river, on the exposed and knotted root of an old pollard. The book was still in her hands, but, without opening it, she sat and gazed down upon the river, until at last she broke, forcibly and impatiently, the long thought which held her, and took up her book, as if to find a refuge in its pages. But she could not have read many lines when she laid her hands upon the leaves, and again let her eyes and her thoughts wander, not to be brought back again until the crushing and the scattering of fallen leaves told her of footsteps behind. They came up to her together, Kenneth and Mr. Monkton ; and when they had greeted her, and while they stood before her, laughing at her snug position, she fixed her gaze upon Kenneth's face steadily — as if she thought it 1 safer there. Then Scot comfortably settled 48 THE squire's legacy. himself upon the grass, with as much gravity and deliberation as if he felt he had to spend the day there. " Will that do ?" asked Kenneth, with a laugh, when at last he had finished the process. But Doris too was watching now, just as critically as if it might have been a little bit of clever acting. " In poetry," she said, her gravity equal to his own, " men always * throw ' themselves upon the grass." " In poetry," returned Scot, lazily, " there's always plenty of grass at hand, of the softest and richest." Far away the wood-pigeons coo'd their plain- tive questioning note, and Scot sat listening. His velveteen was dusty, and a good deal worn, and the great deerhound was allowed to lay his nose upon it where he would. Yet — yet what a true gentleman he was, and Doris finished the thought only by a smile, as she turned her eyes from the handsome sunburnt face. And it happened to be just at that moment that Mr. Monkton so quizzically broke the silence. " Of what are you thinking so busily, Miss Egerton !" THE SQUIBB'S LEGAOY. 49 " Only," she said, quite readily and quietly, " of a few words I read while I was alone," " Please to read them to us," "They were not worth thinking of," said Doris, with a laugh, " and you ought not to have asked me of what I was thinking — but this is it — ' The real gentleman should be gentle in everything — at least, in everything that de- pends on himself.' " " An idea of Hare's," pat in Kenneth, seeing nothing of Doris's brave effort to read calmly under Scot Monkton's intent and quizzical gaze* "What does the worthy old man mean, Miss Egerton t Does he inform us how to discern a gentleman !" «Yes." " Then please read on ; we are anxious to know about ourselves," " • He ought, therefore,' " read Doris, quite at her ease again now, '• * to be mild * — that won't do for you, Mr. Monkton ; * &n4 calm ' — nor that, for you are excitable ; * even ' — and you are very odd; ' temperate' — and you " Given over to alcohol ?" questioned Scot, in her dubious pause. "Is that what you were vol, n. K 50 THE squire's legacy. going to say, Miss Egerton 1 It is very delight- ful and refreshing. Anything more ?" " 4 Many such gentlemen are to be found/ " concluded Doris, calmly, before she closed the book. " I am glad Mr. Hare thinks so. And that's what you've been studying, is it f ' " No ; I only read it just before you came up." " And thought it over after we came up t" Guessing nothing of the real thought which had applied the words to him, of course he had not expected the bright blush which came rushing into her cheeks. Seeing it, he turned aside, and, folding his arms as he leaned his back to the tree, looked across at the farm. " I would not think, if I were you, Miss Eger- ton. ' Thinking is but an idle waste of thought, and naught is everything, and everything is naught.' I call that the very finest logic." "Then you see, Doris, you ought to have read industriously all the time I was away," laughed Kenneth. "Unless," continued Scot, "Miss Egerton agrees with me and the Greek proverb, that a great book is a great evil ; and, necessarily, a lesser book is only a lesser evil." THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 51 " I think that is Mr. Levey's opinion," smiled Doris ; " but I do not think it is yours in ear- nest, Mr. Monkton." " For happiness I would as soon depend on bubbles as on books," remarked Scot, coolly. "On what can any of us dependl" asked Kenneth, seriously. There was a pause among them, which Doris broke, in that fresh yet thoughtful manner which was not only natural to her, fostered by the love which had been around her from her childhood, but was also deepened by the fact of her never having had any very intimate girl- companions, yet always having been the first and dearest to one who was so thoughtful and so dreamy himself. " May I tell you !" she said shyly ; and then she quoted Burns' lines, her young bright tones giving them a new beauty, if not a new mean- ing— " It's no in books, it's no in lear, To make us truly blest ; If happiness has not her seat and centre in the breast, We may be wise, or rich, or great, But never can be blest." " I see," said Scot, in his tranquil way ; " nei- e2 52 THE squire's legacy. ther books nor lear — I don't go much with lear myself, because I don't know him, and he may be any monster — can do it; but then you've left us stranded there. Happiness is to have her seat and centre in the breast, but who is to hand her in, and be surety for her behaviour in the matter of staying there V 9 " We ourselves," answered Kenneth, gravely. " But it's all such a mere matter of opinion," persisted Scot, in his leisurely tones. "For instance, Bradford, look at that flower in your button-hole — you call it heartsease, but there are people of our own island who would raise their eyebrows at your ignorance, because they call it mother-in-law. Now, you see, one man would think he was all right because he had heartsease in his breast, while another would be angry because he had mother-in-law there." " Is that," asked Kenneth, presently, point- ing across the river, "the young horse of which Doris told me f " " Yes ; I am going to try him this afternoon." a Do you care to ride only the horses you have trained for yourself, Mr. Monkton?" asked Doris. " I am not going to train Yaulter for myself; THE squire's legacy. 53 Major Porter bought him from me on condition that I broke him." " But I quite thought you had intended thirf one for yourself." " So I had," said Soot, with apparent uncon- cern, " but Major Porter offered to buy it, and I could not afford to refuse." "Is he still unsafe to ride?" asked Doris, with a new and added anxiety. " No." " Then, Mr. Monkton, I wish you would ride with me — once." So shyly and so humbly she asked it — think- ing only of the pathos of that little speech of his which had betrayed his wish to keep the horse — that Kenneth looked at her in surprise. Would not anyone be proud and pleased to ride with her, not once, but one hundred times ? Yet Soot did not even seem to read the evident wish ; he only questioned her as to what rides she had already taken. " Oh, I haven't half explored this neighbour* hood yet," she said, her smile bright and pleas- sant as ever, for she could not blame him for not understanding her, and she knew how little leisure he would be likely to have for taking 54 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. aimless, unattractive rides. " Next time I ride, I'm going along what they call the River Road; beyond Patten. 1 have never been there. Is it pretty, Mr. Monkton ?" -' I have not ridden there for months. It is not a very wide or smooth road, and the river runs more than a hundred feet below it. For several miles it lies between — indeed, one may say it hangs between — a rocky slope, which is almost like a wall, and the sheer precipice down to the water. I don't think you will care to ride there very often." "But I like anything new; and, besides, I ought to know all the roads about my own home. Mr. Monkton," added Doris, gently, as she rose, " will you come home with us ? Papa will be so glad if you come and lunch with us. Without any hesitation, or future promise, he declined ; and yet again Doris — though so sen- sitive — could see or feel nothing that was not kind and pleasant, as well as polite. She gave him her hand to say " Good-bye," and judt at that moment they all saw a gentle- man sauntering along the water's edge, looking down upon the ground, and so wrapt in thought THE squire's legacy. 55 that be had come quite among them before he either saw or heard them. When he raised his head swiftly at their greeting, Doris seemed very pleased to waive all ceremony, and intro- duced Kenneth there and then to Mr. Chamber- lain ; and Scot caught himself watching her very intently, both while she did so, and when she afterwards talked so brightly and so natu- rally with Steven. But Mr. Chamberlain had evidently no time to spare this morning, even though his step had been so slow. It was quite apparent to them all that he tried to hasten away, though each thought that was but natu- ral, as he must have seen that they had been separating when he reached them. " But stay, Steven," said Scot, as Mr. Cham- berlain moved on. "I'm going your way; so why should we not walk together ?" " A prior engagement, you see, Doris," ob- served Kenneth, when they two had turned into the Larch Walk ; " they are going direct to Comely Place. For my own part, darling, I am more pleased to have you to myself ; the hours seem flying from me. Why so silent, Doris ?" " Ken," she whispered, very low and earnest- 56 the squire's legacy. ly, " I wish — oh, I do so wish — you didn't love me 00 well ! I do bo wish it I" " But I don't," he said, with a ring of per- fect gladness in his quiet tones* "I am a happy fellow so, my love, and could not be happy otherwise ; besides, even if I were not, I could not help it now, for my love is far too strong and steadfast, and rooted far too deeply, to be moved now, even at your bidding, my darling. Doris, do you not know what a bless- ing your love is to me t" " It is because of that," she whispered. " Then, darling* if you love me> you will never say it again— t/ you love me, I say ! I never could utter that word, were there even the faintest shadow of doubt." " If I love you !" she echoed, softly. " You never doubt it, Kenneth, do you? Never — never t" She repeated the word in deepest thought, laying her right hand solemnly in his. " No ; you and I are promised, and we will both be true till death." 57 CHAPTER III. WHETHER or not Scot had had, as Kenneth said, a prior engagement at Comely Place, certain it is that there had been simply time for him to walk to the house and back, when he re-entered the farm garden, to find Miss Michal hard at work there, in a poke bon- net, and with an old shawl folded across her breast, and tied in a knot behind. With the assistance of her spectacles, she was peering into the frames, pinching off the shoots, and removing the dead or dying leaves of her plants. "Oh, you're come at last, Scot!" she said, rising and clapping her leather gloves together to get rid of the loose soil. " I daresay the cutlets are scorched to cinders. I would not have luncheon carried in while he was there. I remember when I first saw him at Kingswood, 58 THE squire's legacy. I shuddered just as I always do when a person walks over my grave, and 1 will not be the one to encourage him here. When you've quite done with him, Scot, call me in ; and, if every- thing's spoiled, of course it will be a great pity and a great waste." Before this cheerful speech was ended, Miss Miqhal had resumed her work with greater energy. " Who is he /" she echoed, excitedly, when Scot asked that not unnatural question. " Who is he? Why, the Frenchman, to be sure — a wicked, vulgar, idle, ugly creature!" With each adjective Miss Michal raised her querulous tones, as if each expressed a much higher degree of horror. " And, if I had my own way, Scot — which of course I should never think of hav- ing or deserving— I should forbid Urn the house. Not" — depositing a pot in the frame with a feeble bang — "that he would have minded that, I'm quite sure, and would have come just as impertinently as ever; but it would have been some little satisfaction to say it." " I will try," said Scot, with a laugh, as he walked on to the house. THE squire's legacy. 5S> " It's of no use/' mourned Miss Miohal, look- ing after him with a flower-pot in her hands, and a small tear in each eye ; " courage is no match for oraft on this earth." Then, with a lugubrious sigh, and without staying to demon- strate on what earth courage would have the advantage, she deposited the pot in the frame, and began the planting of the Spring bulbs in a narrow border, beyond which lay an unruly strawberry kingdom. " Mr. Monkton," said Philippe Sourdet, when Soot had taken his seat beside the fire, opposite to the one in which the Frenchman was seated, "I have called upon you to-day on a little matter of business — a trifle, merely a trifle — but I felt that a personal interview would be more satisfactory than a message. Some six months ago," he continued, having both looked and waited in vain for a reply, 44 you purchased from Mr. Wessel, of Minton, machinery and implements to the value of sixty guineas. You follow me, Mr. Monkton," he added, after having again paused in vain for an answering remark. " I follow you oertainly, so far," said Soot, impatiently ; " hasten, please." €0 THE squire's legacy. "I have now called for the amount, Mr. Monkton." " You !" exclaimed Scot, with rather amused disdain. " Are you then settled in this darken- ed neighbourhood as a humane collector of debts !" " I collect my own," replied the Frenchman, with a smile, "and I, sometime ago, bought Weasel's business." " I see," said Scot, with a drollery even in his haughtiness ; " you have especially bought this debt of mine, and Wessel is wise to make what he can out of a failing business, and to go abroad, now that most of his dupes have their eyes open. He has sold me a good deal of useless machinery, and I told him so. One engine I returned to him." "But very naturally," rejoined Monsieur Sourdet, with a smile, " Wessel returned it again to you, with a reminder that you had bought it, and that it was your own fault if you could not sufficiently understand it to avail yourself of its advantages; he sent an experi- enced man over to show it at work." "Yes, and the man himself could not manage it. Anyone can see that the machinery is de- THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 61 fective. What more have you to say, Mon- sieur Sourdet 1" " That, as his affairs are being wound up, I must demand the amount of your bill at once." 41 1 shall never pay a farthing for what I can- not use." "Weasel's man will swear that the engine was sent out perfect," Sourdet made the re- joinder roughly, in a new tone, but evidently without intention, for he ended it abruptly, and with a smile ; " I hope, Mr. Monkton, that you can advanoe no objection to my becoming your creditor instead of Wessel." " None at all. The matter looks only a shade more fraudulent than it did before." " You are simply my debtor now, instead of Wessel's ; and I, you see, am able to remind you of a prompt and efficient remedy. Think the matter over, Mr. Monkton. There awaits you an inoome which makes these debts sink into the most utter insignifioanoe ; a princely, magni- fioent income, lying now idle and useless, just because you will not give your solicitor instructions to purchase certain documents from me, for a sum whioh, as he himself will <52 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. tell you, is a mere mite. You could not hesitate if you really thought it over for one hour ; and then you would laugh at ever having for a mo- ment paused, and let yourself be bothered by debts which could be comfortably paid out of a single day's income at Kingswood, but which here must ruin you. Why not take willingly now, Mr. Monkton, what presently you will be obliged to take ? The laugh will be against you when you take it then — a ruined man; the laugh cannot be against you now. Don't be hasty with me ; I am speaking for your good. I cannot stay long in this neighbourhood, and I should be sorry to feel you would regret all your life— a life spent here — that you did not listen to me in time. Even if you are still so romantic — a romance which would be laughable, sir, even in a child — as to be willing to stay here and slip gradually down to penury, still why not take your own property unwillingly ?• The willingness will soon assert itself when you are at Kingswood again. Once make the first step, and you will have no sickly fancies. Act from the motive of the apothecary in that love-sick English play of yours. You have the will to keep up the THE squire's legacy, 63 Quixotic eccentrioity, but your poverty robs you of the power." " Fortunately I have the power as well as the will to guard my own honour," said Scot, coolly ; " and, beyond that, Monsieur Sourdet, I have another power and another will. Had you not better leave this house before I exercise them f " "You will be sorry presently," observed Philippe Sourdet, his teeth all exposed under his heavy black moustache, and his eyes, in their glitter, seeming almost to meet over his nose. "1 am sorry now," said Scot, haughtily, " because this debt has given you an exouse for coming here." "I will say no more to-day," returned Sourdet, with an effort at plausibility. " You will soon think differently, and I will hasten here at your summons." "You will wait for the summons, if you please." Philippe Sourdet gave one long vindictive glance into his companion's faoe — such a hand- some, debonair face, even in its scorn — and the sight made Monsieur Sourdet wroth beyond all 64 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. words, in his baffled avarice ; yet still he smiled , and bowed with his parting words. "I am willing to wait for this debt, Mr. Monkton, and yon give me no thanks. Yet Mr. Weasel told me that yon expressed a frank obligation to him, when — knowing it was bnt natural that yon would be hard up at first — he promised yon yonr own time." " I cannot prevent yonr insulting whomsoever yon choose to insult,'' said Scot, rising swiftly in his passion, while the veins grew high on his forehead ; " but, by heaven, yon don't insult me twice in my own house !" Yet still again the Frenchman, as he left the room, bowed and smiled ; reminding Mr. Monk- ton that he would be at his service a few days longer. "Now," ejaculated Miss Windish, setting down her watering-pot on the gravel, as Scot sauntered down the garden-path; "now you will have the kindness to take your luncheon, Scot, and forget the worries of that mean, huge creature with the soiled complexion. What did he come to harass you about to-day I" " Wessel has emigrated, and he is collecting his debts." THE squire's legacy. 65 " Then he came for money ?" " Has he ever come for anything else t" u Scot, my dear," whispered Miss Michal, anx- iously, " didn't Wessel come over here himself about the implements and things, and beg yon to buy, and say he would wait as long as you chose for payment, because he knew the farm could not yield when you first went into it ? I re- member how I thought he bothered you a great deal, but that you told me you felt very much obliged. And now he has turned out a sneak — I thought he would." " It's all right," said Scot, dryly. " 4 To John I owed great obligation ; But John unhappily thought fit To publish it to all the nation — Now John and I are fairly quit.' It's a pleasant sensation, Aunt Michal, to cry quits with any man." " Oh, dear, dear !" sighed Miss Michal, slip- ping her hand through Scot's arm, forgetful of the condition of her gardening gauntlet. "I know you mean a great deal more than you say, and something terrible will come of that man's interference. I always knew there would — I knew it from the first." VOL. II. F 66 THE squire's legacy. Scot made no answer, but his thoughts were not with Monsieur Sourdet, as his aunt fancied. He was only wondering whether her suspicions had really always been as easily and generally roused as she herself afterwards fancied. i 67 CHAPTER IV. THREE weeks had passed since Scot's din- ner-party, yet something had always oc- curred to delay that solitary ride which Doris Egerton had planned to take along the River Road, Colonel Egerton had made a wide circle of acquaintance during his previous residence at Kingswood; and, besides that, he kept open house— as an old soldier would— for the officers stationed in Minton ; so Doris soon found, by experience, that it would not do to reckon her time her own, and depend upon any plan for a solitary excursion. Miss Bradford had come down to visit them now, and, so far, Doris had not cared to leave her aunt. Then Kenneth was often appearing unexpectedly, and he did not care to ride ; and never did Doris now pro- F2 68 THE squire's legacy. pose anything which she was not quite sure he would enjoy. Kenneth was working harder than ever now, in that quiet room of his between the Strand and the Thames ; and Doris saw the traces on his face of much close work and restless thought. If it had been possible, her manner would have had an added gentleness and kindness ; but it was not possible, unless it had been another manner than Doris's own. Not once did Ken- neth look in vain for the bright piquancy of old, or the debonair gaiety. Not once did he listen in vain for the prompt, unreasoning con- tradictions and corrections which were so dear to him in his work, or the laughter which was music to him. Yet the wonderful tenderness in all her words, and the wistful anxiety in her eyes at times, when they rested upon him in his great excitement and hopefulness at his work, made his happiness so perfect that, when, just once, he tried to tell her of his joy and grati- tude, tears of real anguish — which had never before been visitants to Doris's eyes — sprang up and flooded them. Mr. Bradford had been to Kingswood once during those three weeks, and roused everyone THE squire's legacy. 69 by his caustic remarks and reproofs ; indeed it seemed to all his old friends that the lawyer felt young Monkton's change of fortune and position even more keenly than he felt his own inability to wean his son from that all-engross- ing pursuit which tallied so ill with the father's natural ambition for him. But still there was. no prospect of a change. The indefatigable search to trace the late Scot Monkton's son had been entirely fruitless, and, as the lawyer him- self dryly remarked, "Here we are all huddled together upon a great full stop." Scot Monkton, through those three weeks, had gone very seldom to the Dower House ; yet, living so near, and Colonel Egerton being so bent upon exercising an especial hospitality to "the young Squire," and being so really won by him, of course it could not be but that he and Doris often met. And through these > weeks the intercourse had been exactly what it. had chanced to be in those few minutes of parting at the Black Birches — on his side, quiet and reserved, yet easy, and a little bit amused ; on hers, friendly and pleasant, yet restless a little, as if tinctured with an uncomfortable 70 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. doubt, and at times rather childishly defiant* It was a bright, keen afternoon in the beginning of December, when at last Hero came, saddled, to the door, led by Doris's groom, belted, and ready to follow on this ride of discovery. In her habit and hat, Doris stood in the hall, laughing over her aunt's lengthened instructions and warnings. Miss Joan said she had never been allowed, as a girl, to do more than canter for an hour in Rotten Row, when she had had only a servant to accompany her ; and she wondered Doris could not feel satisfied to confine herself to the park at Eingswood, so extensive and so beautiful as it was, and she with full permission to ride in it. " But, auntie, why should this road be dan- gerous, just because it happens to be strange to us r "I don't know, my dear," said Miss Joan; 41 my words are silly, I dare say." And then she laid her soft white fingers on the chrysan- themums which Doris had put between the buttons of her habit, and the slight gesture was like a gentle, detaining touch. For an instant Doris felt it so, and looked wistfully into her aunt's face. THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 71 " Aunt Joan, shall I stay ? — would you rather that I stayed ?" And then Miss Joan, perverse in her very love for the girl, patted her upon the cheek, and bade her ride off and enjoy herself, and make haste home, to finish telling her the story she had just begun. " For you see, my dear," added the old lady, simply, " now that we have reached December, you have a good many chapters just to recall to my memory before we begin to read the last; so don't be late, my dear. I'm afraid," she added presently, looking out beyond the porch, to where Hero waited, her roan coat smooth and glossy as satin, " the tempest last night broke the branches in the avenues ; and Hero is so shy, and so easily startled. It was a fearful wind, and I should not wonder if whole trees fell." " But, auntie, if they did, it was in the night. It is calm enough now, isn't it ? — all the more lovely after that storm, I think ; and I will not lead Hero where the loose twigs lie under foot to aggravate her. Now, auntie, my last kiss." Miss Joan gave the last kiss Iingeringly, and then stood in the porch, with a smile upon her 72 THE squire's legacy. gentle face, while Doris mounted, looking as fresh and bright as the flowers in her breast. So pretty and so thoroughly at home on her beautiful roan mare, such a dainty picture altogether, that it was strange that the pleas- ant, gentle smile died so quickly on Miss Joan's lips, after her pet had turned, with her last nod and smile, from the gate. She went back to her seat in the drawing- room, and took up a new magazine; but it would be of no use going on with the long stories, because eleven whole parts were at present a blank to her, and there was no Doris to " recall them to her mind." It was of no use getting her sewing, when she had no one to talk to (she to say this, whose life was chiefly spent alone !) ; nor was it of any use to try to take a nap. It was evident Miss Joan was ill at ease, for she decided presently to go to Comely Place, and have a chat with Marga- ret Chamberlain. * * * * * * Scot Monkton intended to devote an hour or two that morning to the young horse be was breaking in for Major Porter, and so, about half an hour before Doris started, he left the Black THE squire's legacy. 75 Birches, and rode through the park. It was seldom that he went past Kingswood; and even to-day, when, as was so unusual, he had no particular destination in view, he avoided the house, and turned up the slope behind, skirting the wood. As he passed the solitary cottage behind which the poplars stood on guard, he caught sight of Anna Wakeley, looking anx- iously from the open doonvay. Scot pulled up his rebellious horse at the gate, and gave her a cheery, kind " good morning," "Looking for Oliver?" he asked, as she came forward with her work in her hand, her pleased smile failing to hide the anxiety with which she had glanced around her the moment she saw Mr, Monkton. " No, sir, not Oliver," she answered, with her unfailing curtsey for " the Squire ;" ftt Oliver's only just gone out ; but he said he expected Mr. Sourdy back here to-day, and I was to be at home." " He has been away, then, has he ?" "Yes, sir; he goes off every now and then. Of course, as Oliver says, he's lots of things to do and see after; but I know it's chiefly — betting." Anna dropped her voice 74 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. in real horror of the word, though she un- derstood so little beyond what her personal knowledge of her lodger could have taught her. "And Oliver bade you be at home," ques- tioned Scot, turning from the other subject, u while you want to be elsewhere? Tell me, Anna, if I can leave any message for you. I am riding nowhere in particular to-day. Let me do something for you." The woman's eyes were swimming in tears when she raised them to the handsome ones which looked down on her so kindly. " You are always so good, sir ; and yet " " So good !" laughed Scot, quietly. " I won- der how I can be good to. any of you now. But, in any case, tell me the one thing I can do for you to-day." " But presently perhaps, sir, when Mr. Sour- •dy's been in and had something to eat, I may manage to go ; only I wish " " Listen, Anna," said Scot, in his quiet, ear- nest way; "you won't understand what I mean, I daresay, but, if it were not for me, you would not be pestered by this Frenchman ; and so, knowing that, should I not naturally be glad j THE squire's legacy* 75 to do something for you, when yon are tied in by the scou — by him?" " But, Mr. Monkton — do forgive me for say- ing it, sir — I want above all things that he should not find you here. That's why I do not want to keep you now for one minute. Please, sir " — the woman's hands were tight upon the work which bung before her, and her eyes swept the slope from end to end, while the feverish colour came and went in her dark cheeks — "please, sir, listen to me just this once. Don't — however kind you may be feel- ing towards me, as you always are — don't come here while — Oliver and he are together." " What do you fear, Anna t" asked Scot, with a re-assuring smile. " I — I don't know what I fear, sir. Some- times I fear nothing— nothing, sir. Oliver's unsteady, and idle, and covetous, but not that bad. And then again I fear — I fear — until my life is one long ache and fever." " Tou want a little change, Anna," said Scot, kindlv. "Go over and see Mrs. Sutton, at Minton. She was always kind to you. I am going myself to-morrow, and I will drive you in, if you like." 76 THE squire's legacy. " Oh, no, no !" she faltered, starting back, as if his kind words had literally hurt her. Oh ! no, thank you, sir; I hare a good deal of « change. I am often at the Black Birches, you know, sir, for Miss Windish gives me all your work to do; and Miss Egerton is very, very kind, and sends for me there whenever she can find any sewing as an excuse. No, it isn't that, sir." " What a storm we had last night !" said Scot, feeling it would be more pitiful to turn Anna'* thoughts from her evident, though unexplained fear. "Did it do you any harm here? We had our tiles blown off; Liath and I were working away on the roof, like two bricklayers, as soon as it was light this morning." "It was the storm that made me want to go out now," returned Anna, smiling at last, as she pictured the young Squire at his work. " Oliver tells me, sir, that an immense piece of rock has been undermined, and has fallen across the River Road beyond Patten/' " And you want to see it ?" Anna smiled, that rare smile of hers which told a little pathetic story of her own un- familiarity with pleasure for herself of any kind. THE squire's legacy. 77 " No, sir, but I thought to go down to the Dower House and tell Miss Egerton, because she has often said she intended to ride that way some day, and I've heard remarks about her horse ; and so I feel as if it would not be safe, for the rock's fallen nearly quite across the road, and it's just round the curve from here, so that she'd come unawares upon it before she knew. I thought I should like just to run down and tell her this, sir, in case she doesn't hear of it before she decides to go. Perhaps you were going to the Dower House, sir ?" " No, I was not going there," said Scot, quietly; "but I will take your message. I shall be sure to find Miss Egerton at home this morning/' " You will show her the danger, won't you, sir ? I am so glad and so much obliged to you. I cannot settle to my work, sir, for thinking of it, for you can hardly guess how kind she's been to me ever since she came." " Yes, I can. guess," said Scot, very quietly. And then, seeing that Anna's anxiety had been deep and real for Doris, and knowing she would be more at ease after he was gone, he said only a few words more and left her. 78 THE squire's legacy. In a trot, which grew a little more easy and regular as he devoted all his attention to the step of his young horse, Scot rode down the slope, and made for the handsome stone bridge in the park. On this bridge it was that Vaulter, waking suddenly to the conviction that his peculiar rights to this highway were infringed upon by an unfamiliar cavalcade which met him, shied back against the low grey wall, and turned round and round like a teetotum, with an evident haziness as to which was his head and which his tail. Rose and Violet Levey pulled up their sedate- looking quadrupeds, and waited anxiously; while Scot — raising his hat and greeting them laughingly the while — went through a process of gradually convincing Vaulter that it would display a greater equine discretion, and de- cidedly tend to his peace of mind, if he de- cided on his head's being the better part to go forward, and tried the experiment. Vaulter thought it over for a moment or two, with his forelegs suspended in the air, and then gave in without a sigh, deeply engrossed in planning a future course that should baffle the skill which at present he was unwillingly forced to acknow- ledge. THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 79 "We were just thinking of turning, Mr, Monkton," said Rose, with a strict adherence to the letter of the truth, as they certainly had had every intention of turning when they met him ; " we have come far enough for this morn- ing. Oh, do take care of that dangerous horse ! I feel so nervous." " Tou are not going straight home, I hope, Mr. Monkton," put in Violet, meditating the possibility of Yaulter's allowing her to wheel round to his other side. " Tou will see us safely home, won't you?" " I am going first to the Dower House. I am bearing a message to Miss Egerton." Scot said it frankly and coolly, as he kept his fingers tight upon Yaulter's rein ; while the young animal submitted with grace (which was all show, and had nothing to do with his disposition) to his compulsory education, and stepped daintily and haughtily over the bridge. " Then I am glad we are able to save you the trouble of a journey in vain," said Miss Levey, with a new tone in her hard, unmusical voice. " Tou would not find Miss Egerton at home, for we have just seen her riding with her groom." 80 THE squire's legacy. " Where, Miss Levey t" " Down to the River Road. We should pro- bably have joined her," added Rose, languidly, u only we don't like that way for riding. She seemed as if she had made up her mind to enjoy herself, for she cantered out upon the River Road as if she delighted in her freedom, and could canter so to the world's end. What is it, Mr. Monkton ?" But Rose had received no answer. " What was it ?" she inquired, turning blankly to her sister. "I don't know," retorted Violet, pettishly. " He said something about danger — what non- sense, when I've known him gallop round there to Minton a hundred times ! — and then he begged our pardon for hurrying off, and was gone in a moment, as you saw." As they saw indeed ! « Is the horse running away with him?" fal- tered Rose, below her breath, and turning anxi- ously to their groom, who had drawn up to them in their pause; " No, miss ; at present Mr. Monkton has him well in hand, but it's a dangerous pace, unless he keeps to the park." THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 81 " He is going along the River Road ; he spoke of danger there." The groom drew in his lips ominously, and they all stood for a time just where Scot had left them, watching how he gave the young horse his head, and galloped out of sight. VOL. H. G 82 CHAPTER V. TVORIS rode from Kingswood Park towards ^ the River Road at a canter, as Miss Levey had told Scot. The wind went past her with a rush, and its kiss left rosy Hashes on her fresh,, cold cheeks. Hero was so frill of spirit that there was the keen enjoyment of enterprise in guiding her to-day ; and is the sense of youth and health and freedom ever more dominant than in a rapid canter against the bracing wind? The effects of the storm were apparent even on this River Road. Here there lay leaves and twigs scattered from the shrubbery thicket ; and there fragments of loose earth, or of soiled wool which the wind had borne from the thorns and hedges where the wandering sheep had left it. Yet how thoroughly and entirely the storm THE squire's legacy. 83 itself had passed away from the clear, cold air, and how soft and balmy was this fresh wintry breeze which followed it ! In Doris's heart rang a perfect song of glad- ness, none the less bright for being wordless ; and she cantered on, to the rhythm of her thoughts, and to the music of the river as it flowed below her. She bent to pat Hero's glossy neck, and then threw back her head again, her lips apart, her eyes lustrous in their supreme enjoyment. Straight as a line sped Hero. There was no hindrance on this solitary way, and her step never swerved, nor did her pace slacken, until she had cantered quite two miles along this River Road. Doris glanced behind, but without drawing rein. She had given her groom an errand on his way, but she fancied he might be in sight now, though she had come so fast. The way lay straight and all exposed, so he would see her before she rode past the point which lay just before her now — a curve which Hero would take daintily, in this true, swinging step of hers. So Doris, firm and easy in her saddle, turned to see if Lloyd had ridden into sight ; while Hero G2 84 the squire's legacy. cantered on, with a little snort of pure enjoy* ment, as a notice to the wind and to the river that she felt as free as they, in spite of the reins she bore so gently. On and on, lightly and fleetly ronnd the bend, and then in front of her, and close upon her, lay a rugged mass of rock; blocking the way, save just one foot's space between it and that sheer precipice down to the river. But, if there were any path at all, why should not Hero pass T Just at that moment it was that Doris turned her eyes from their backward glance, and saw this danger which now it was too late to shun* ? ?*??** Scot Monkton, after passing out of sight of Bose and Violet Levey, as they stood upon the bridge to watch him, rode on, still at a pace to which the young horse not only submitted, but of which he highly approved. He shook his short black mane, and, with a tighter hold upon the bit, pierced the future with bis nose, to the ex- tent allowed him by the reins, against which he chafed with meritorious persistence. Without a thought for his horse, though training him unconsciously as he guided him, Scot rode on to the River Road. He had almost reached the THE squire's legacy. 85 bend, when he overtook Miss Egerton's groom going forward at an easy trot, though his mis- tress was not in sight. Without waiting to hear the man's explanation, Soot stopped abruptly and dismounted, with a sign to Lloyd to stop too. " Stay here," he said, in low, quick tones, "and take care of the horses. Don't bring them forward — and keep them quiet." Not by any means did Lloyd rejoice to find himself left with these instructions, and the sole charge of a thoroughbred, who was too young yet to have adopted — or to think of taking — any way but his own ; but he was a conscien- tious servant, and, besides that, there had been something in Mr. Monkton's manner — qdiet and self-possessed as it was — which had given him an indefinite and uncomfortable alarm. What had Mr. Monkton feared ? Ah, what indeed ? Had he feared anything so terrible as the sight which met him when, after he had passed the curve in the road, he stood one moment with his eyes shaded, his strong muscular form swaying backward — for that one instant — like a girl's? 86 THE squire's legacy. Many a time afterwards did the sight come back to him in troubled dreams, and from such dreams he always awoke in the same quietude of intense terror, and with those same icy drops upon his brow, of which he was unconscious then, when he met the great peril face to face. He saw that Hero had tried to pass the nar- row margin of roadway left by the fallen rock, and, in doing so, had slipped ; and now, while her body hung above the sheer descent to the river, she had grasped the edge of the road, and retained her hold only by her fore-feet. Her breath broke the silence by strokes of loud, quick agony ; flakes of foam stood on her head and neck, and her eyes started from their sockets. And to the saddle Doris clung, with a strain- ed, trembling grip ; her bowed head bare, and her eyes closed, as if she would shut out all terror, if she could, in the solemn thought of that swift, brief passage which awaited her. But the moment which fixed this scene upon Scot's mind — so firmly that no after happiness or misery could ever efface it — was but a mo- ment after all ; and it had passed, and left him his own self once more, cool and daring and alert.* THE squire's legacy. 87 First, as Doris herself had done, he looked round to see if there were anything within possible reach of her hands — not with Doris's certainty that it was her only hope, bnt in his dread of frightening Hero by his own approach. Bnt no ; not even a root of fern was near. And then, though thought after thought flashed through his mind, Scot saw that only one rescue was possible. For a moment he had meditated taking Hero's bridle, and, by sheer strength, pulling her to her feet upon the road, while Doris kept her seat by that grasp upon the saddle. But even with the project came the conviction of its impracticability. What were his strength and weight compared with Hero's ? And where was the space necessary for her to regain her footing on the road, as she struggled up ? There had not been room for her even to pass ; then how could she ever stand across the way ? No ; that scheme would be as fetal as leaving horse and rider to fall when their over- taxed strength should be exhausted. One following another — or rather one upon another — did a number of impossible means of rescue dart into Scot's mind ; yet still only a few moments had passed when he had discarded, 88 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. as utterly impossible, all but one; and this might indeed have been his first and only thought, so quickly had it grown into a steady, fixed resolve. Doris — with all her power concentrated in the grip of her strained fingers, and all her con- sciousness merged in the awful consciousness of being utterly helpless in her peril — suddenly lifted her head from her horse's neck ; eyes and lips were both unclosed, and a vivid flash of hope — which in that awful situation it was most pitiful to see — rushed into her white face. Scot Monkton was literally alarmed to see how his quiet call upon her name had scattered in a moment her death-like calm, and given her a new tingling vitality of hope and confidence. Just as a man struggling with death in the dark and solitary waters, would feel that he was safe when he could see friendly lights and faces in the vessel above him, though he had not yet grasped the rope within his hands, so Doris felt saved when Scot quietly called her by name. Her hands loosed their hold, and were held out in utter reliance to meet his. Scot, his feet planted firmly, and every muscle tense and strong, stood on the edge of the road at Hero's THE squire's legacy. 89 side ; and while he balanced himself he leaned forward, his hands firmly and steadily extended to Doris, while Hero's panting breath grew louder and harder, and her head was strained forward, with one last struggle which made the sinews in her neck rise like cables. " No, no ; don't shrink from trusting your whole weight to me!" — Scot whispered the words hurriedly and anxiously ; for one mo- ment's delay now might be fatal. — " It is our only chance. Hold fast to my hands — very fast ; and leave all else to me." " But — if you fall — dragged down by " "Come!" he interrupted, with quiet, grave authority. She had her fingers round his, before even that word was uttered ; but it did not depend upon her holding fast to him. When once their hands had met, it was his clasp which held her ; and far above the consciousness of her own help- lessness was the consciousness of his power. For the brief second after she rose in her saddle, until she felt her knees touch and cling to the firm ground, she had no feeling beyond that of simple, brave reliance upon him. He raised her from her knees, and then paus- 90 THE squire's legacy. ed one instant, still with her hands in his, while she stood with her feet entangled in her habit, and her eyes fixed upon his face. " How can I ever be thankful enough t" she whispered. But after the one look down, as she had stood before him, her fingers locked in his, he had turned away, as if the sight of the great trust and gratitude upon her face were not good for him to see. " Oh, no, Mr. Monkton — no !" she cried, catch- ing his arm, when she saw that he was going to make a hopeless effort to save her horse. But she had no need for that spasm of alarm ; for even as she spoke there was a grating sound, and Hero fell. Doris made a swift step forwards, forgetful that her habit clung about her feet ; and then, close to the edge of the road' as it was, she stumbled, and would have fallen forward, down the very precipice from which she had just been rescued, but that Scot had seen the uwkward involun- tary step, and caught her and held her back. Doris, glad of his support, and looking eagerly down to the water in her anxiety about her horse, could not see that this was what Scot, in his THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 91 bravery, had turned away to avoid. He held her firm and safe as she leaned over the perpen- dicular descent, looking where, so far below her, her favourite had fallen with that terrible splash which had brought a cry from her lips ; and she neither saw the new, sad struggle in his face, nor felt his chest heave in its suppressed emo- tion. " She is safe," he said, quietly, when Doris turned her anxious face to his, with a mute question, while she still stood within his strong restraining arm. " Hero is safe ; she is swimming to the opposite bank." " Oh, will she reach it !" So absorbed was Doris in her anxious watch- ing that she had no other thought, and so, in simple ignorance, she could bear to stand there in Scot's protection, while his heart beat so heavily, and while his face grew stiff and pallid in this new joy — which he knew to be a forbidden joy, and, from this moment, never to be his again. " See ! — see ! Oh ! Mr. Monkton, Hero is safe ! Look how she lifts her head and shakes the water from her mane ! Oh I how shall I ever thank you for our lives t" 92 THE squire's legacy. He had quietly unclasped his arms now, and she stepped back into the wider road, and, with her habit in her hands, and her bright, loosened hair pushed from her temples, looked wistfully at him, with again that vivid flash of gratitude in the innocent blue eyes. " If— if you had not come " Never, even to her own thoughts, did Doris acknowledge what it was which stayed her words just then, and brought to her eyes such a sudden flood of childish, miserable tears. Her nerves had been overwrought, and now, in the reaction, what more natural than these tears ? So Scot thought, while there faded from his face the very look which had in reality brought the tears, and while still his pulses throbbed so quickly and unsteadily. So he thought, and he let the tears have their way, knowing they would do her good, and picturing how blue and bright and happy her eyes would presently shine through them. Then he picked up the hat he had thrown off before he went to rescue her, and, folding it together ("it was a soft felt hat which belonged to the old Kingswood days), put it into his THE squire's legacy. 93 pocket, and buttoned his thick coat over it. If she were hatless, he would be so too ; and all the time he seemed so calm and so unhurried, while Doris stood with her head drooped and her eyes covered, and the tears falling fast amid her sobs. " Miss Egerton, shall we walk on now t" When he began to speak, his hand went out as if to touch hers, and his voice was stirred by a great yearning ; but in an instant his hand was drawn back, and his voice was simply kind and very steady. Presently her tears ceased, and she looked up — a very doleful little picture, with the ruffled hair on her temples, and her eyes still wet with tears. The girl's life had been so smooth and sunny, and the love which had enfolded her had left her so utterly a stranger to all suffering, save that of pity and com- passion, that what wonder was it if now — when the sharpest pang which pierced her was this new acute and intense sympathy — she should feel so weak and helpless ? " Shall we walk on now ¥" said Scot again, in those kind, quiet tones, which sounded almost calm. 94 THE squire's legacy. "1 have never thanked you," said Doris, looking at hi m ^tfully. « I ^h I could." " What have I donet" he asked, his voice quite low, though shaken by a suppressed and curbed excitement. " The branch of a tree, if it had been within reach, would have saved you as effectually as my hands saved you, and Hero's escape is owing to herself. Had you any idea before that Hero swam as cleverly as Leander t" As if with a sudden recollection, brought by these light words, Doris shook back her hair, gathered her habit in her hands, and turned to walk towards her home, with only one swift glance to where her horse, with hanging reins, was cantering to and fro in the low meadow on the opposite side the river. " Yes, Mr. Monkton, I am ready. I cannot think," she said, presently, " where Lloyd can be. Oh, there he is ! — and he has your horse, too, Mr. Monkton. Oh, I see." How much of the truth she saw Scot did not ask; he gave Lloyd directions how to reach Hero, and then took the bridle of his own horse over his arm, and once more walked on with Doris. They met but one little group of THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 95 people along that unfrequented road, and when they had passed, Doris turned, with a laugh into her companion's face, to surmise what people would think of two hatless and dis- mounted equestrians. And Scot, quite lightly, though without a laugh, wondered where a hat would be likely to land if it fell just there, and how soon a reward would be offered for the body belonging to the hat. Then they walked on again, in a silence of which they both seemed unaware, until they stood, to separate, at the gate of the Dower House. Then Doris, being very weak and shy and grateful, looked up and begged Scot to come in with her, and once again brokenly tried to thank him ; and Scot, being very brave in this temptation, shook his head, and, slipping Yaulter's bridle to his left hand, offered her his right. "I see that the two horses have returned. You will not mind the lost hat, I hope, as that is all you have to regret, Miss Egerton?" . " Bat yours t" she said, still with that nervous, anxious smile upon her lips. " I am so sorry." " I shall find mine," he said, and he dropped her hand and turned away and mounted. 96 THE squire's legacy. She stood at the gate and watched him out of sight ; but after that parting moment he rode on through the park, and never turned to see the earnest look which followed him, and which would have brightened into a smile at his back- ward glance. "I — wish," said Doris, softly, to herself, as she walked up the lawn, " it bad been Kenneth, because — I like to owe everything to Kenneth — everything." 97 CHAPTER VI. AFTER making the rabbit-pie with her own hands— Miss Windish emphasised the ad- jective, as if fully aware of her superiority over those housekeepers who make rabbit-piea with hands to whioh they can lay no direct personal claim— it oertainly was most provoking to have to submit to its gradual destruction beside the fire in the kitchen, while her temper — Miss Michal did not admit this, but the faot was self-evident — was as gradually succumbing to circumstances beside the fire in the dining-room. " For two hours," she sighed, with that slow rooking to and fro which was habitual to her in her moments of dolor, " I have kept up just the fire he likes — all to be wasted ; and be will come in starved, and want to throw on all the coal." Simultaneously with this doleful reflection a bright idea dawned upon Miss Michal. She vol. n. h 98 the squire's legacy. rose with the greatest alacrity, and, seizing the coal- box, drew it on its castors under her easy- chair, scientifically secreting it by expanding her skirts when she sat down again. Cheered by the consciousness that all unlawful extrava- gance in coal was now out of his reach, she uttered a mournful ejaculation of " Poor Scot ! Poor Scot !" Once or twice she took the shovel and, with a mild air of deprecation, and a sort of mute appeal to the fire to keep its extravagant spirits within bounds, pressed it on the flame, wonder- ing how she could have been tempted to build one which should burn away so swiftly. But, in spite of her little practical appeal, it glowed and blazed, and asserted, on its own account, the warmth and welcome Miss Michal thought it so wise to subdue. There was no tread upon the gravel even yet, and no opening of that old front door, which always creaked its warning in a manner which she fully understood to foreshadow the speedy downfall of the house. But presently she heard Scot's step across the hall from the back door, the eager scraping of dogs' feet, and one short, sharp bark of greeting. THE squire's legacy. 99 Miss Michal, just turning to make sure that her small black skirt quite hid the coal-box, subsided into a limp depression. " It's two hours after dinner-time," she sighed, as Scot came slowly up to her. "Is it, Aunt Michal ?" " Oh, then you've dined at the Dower House, of course !" she exclaimed, in a tone of vexation which was the rather natural consequence of his indifference as to the dinner hour. "No." " Dear me, Scot ! how strange of you to leave there so late, and yet not have dined with them !" " It was not late," returned Scot, absently ; " the turret clock at Eingswood struck three as I left the gate." "Three," exclaimed Miss Michal — but her wonderment was less for the words than for something she could read, yet could not under- stand, in the face of the young man, as he stood opposite her — " and now it's eight, Scot !" It may have been the little lady's frank and natural surprise, or it may have been the in- formation itself which startled him. He apolo- gised with a laugh which was not very familiar H2 100 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. to Miss Michal, yet was a great relief after that uncomfortable feeling he had momentarily roused. " Why were you sitting in the firelight, Aunt Michal ?" he asked, as she rang the bell, keeping her seat over the coal-box ; for though it did not seem as if an opportunity for unlawful ex- travagance would be seized by him with any avidity, yet of course she could not be quite sure until his mind had turned itself to dinner. " I will light the lamp," she said, resignedly ; " I did not want light while I sat alone doing nothing. I feel painfully my inability to earn any money, Scot ; but I am fortunately able to save a little now and then." " Thank you, Aunt Michal ; but I wish that you had no need to do it." " Oh, I like it !" she cried, with one of her rbpid changes, as she stood at the sideboard, fixing the globe on the lamp with extreme caution. " It's the least I can do, Scot, when you are always thinking of your debts." " Always !" echoed Scot, as he waited to carry the lamp to the dinner-table. " There's nothing else which it is half so good for me to think of." THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 101 Never did Miss Michal remember making a rabbit-pie to less purpose than she had made this; Soot, even while, as usual, he lightened her deep anxiety by a pleasant compliment upon her achievement, made a mere pretence of helping himself; and she decided, on her own part, that to wait for two hours, with the con- sciousness of a rabbit-pie's gradually spoiling the while, was an effectual remedy for appetite. When Elizabeth had carried away the cloth, and after the usual formula of a mutual and un- accepted invitation to take wine, Miss Windish — with a sigh, as she recalled her usual habit of dropping sleepily into her arm-chair at the fire, while Scot's cornet, or his jesting words, or his reading, supplied a pleasant background — felt that this evening would be quite different, and grew very brisk and alert, knitting away up- rightly, while she ransacked the neat little recesses of her mind for scraps of animating information. " A man called here to-day, Scot, to buy old umbrellas. I don't like those men as a rule, but he was highly respectable." " It's a highly respectable profession." "And, Scot, my dear/' resumed Miss Michal, 102 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. greatly relieved by this symptom of a jest — though of course sternly determined not to betray the slightest pleasure at anything so natural as Scot's breaking through the odd and heavy silence which held him, and which she was keen enough to see that he was making an effort to break — " he bought that old umbrella of yours. It was utterly worn out, and I made a capital bargain. He had wanted at first to give me four-pence for it — it's odd how those men always have the desire at their heart to cheat you — but T always knew what a bargain was, Scot, and I was staunch, and would not let him have it under sixpence." There was nothing forced about Scot's laugh now. "What is it?" she asked, greatly encour- aged. " Had the highly respectable gentleman seen the gold name-plate on the handle I" " Oh, Scot !" Little Miss Michal's face of horror, with its round light eyes and its elongated cheeks, waa so irresistibly comic that Scot laughed again. "Oh, Scot, I quite forgot! What was it worth f " THE squire's legacy. 103 " About half a sovereign, I should say ; but what does it matter, Aunt Michal ? If I'd had the plate, I dare say I should have been tempt- ed to buy a new umbrella to put it on — a sense- less idea, for I don't like them." Scot said this quite merrily, and there never followed a taunting word about his aunt's boasted skill in bargaining ; so Miss Michal of course had no further inclination to give vent to her tears. They would have started at once into the two little wide-open reservoirs, but that Scot's laugh was over, and she detected again the undercurrent of sadness. " I was stupid," she said, briskly changing her tactics ; " but we shall find him, Scot. He'll be taken up soon for cheating some one else, and then I shall appear and get that gold plate." Miss Michal did not afford any surplus of in- formation as to how her very mild appearance- was to effect this; but Scot seemed satisfied with the probability. " Miss Levey called in as they rode past this afternoon," she resumed, taking up the thread of her attempt to entertain him. " She was most anxious about your horse ; I found out she was really frightened, though at first I fancied somebody had put her 104 THE squire's legacy. out of temper. She stayed quite an hour, I'm sure, and she made herself most agreeable. It was she who told me about your having ridden after Miss Egerton. She does not like Doris Egerton, I think, Soot ; and yet I'm perfectly sure her brother is paying his addresses to her with all his might and main. Don't you think so 1" "What!" " That Mr. Levey has fallen in love with Miss Egerton, and that it is a great pity." 44 It cannot be helped," said Scot, with strange quietness. " But it is not only unnecessary in her case, as she is engaged, but it is such a pity. It spoils a girl who is so young and fresh." "Is it for her sake, then, that you mind, AuntMichal? Why, the gift of a man's love is nothing new to her ; and, though Kenneth Bradford loves her as his very life, he cannot prevent other men being as mad — even now that it is too late." " Don't speak so sternly about it, Scot," re- marked Miss Windish. "Why should you? Of course I cannot really blame either of them ; Doris Egerton is very lovable, and it is but THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 105 natural that Mr. Levey should want a pretty and aristocratic -wife. I only mean that no girl ought to have more than one offer — that's all." There was a pause between them then. It had fallen hopelessly upon them, in spite of Miss Windish's determination, and, while she sat knitting — as if her very life were held by the feeble tenure of a possibility of finishing her stocking — she glanced now and then across into Scot's face, with a new reticence upon her, as thoroughly and entirely inexplicable as it was unusual. "I wonder," she mused to herself, a long time afterwards, dropping her knitting and ringing for tea as a relief, " why I should have taken into my mind just then that ridiculous idea of the iron entering into a man's soul — absurd !" "Scot," she said, standing meekly at the « young man's side, when Elizabeth had placed the low tea-table upon the rug, " what is that long sad thought f ". "Tea-time?" cried Scot, raising his head quickly, with a smile for her. " Then you too must have been silent for a long time, Aunt Michal." 106 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. " Oh, Scot," she sobbed, plaintively, folding her two hands on his shoulder, " to think that you should ever be brought to such straits, and that I should prove not only no help, but — but get scarcely any bargains. Oh, Scot, my dear, go back to Kings wood! You know I don't often speak of it ; but it is cruel to see it empty, and all that immense mass of money wasted ; when by lifting your finger " "Hush, Aunt Michal!" said Scot, gently, taking down her hands, and rising, as if he could thus more readily leave behind him the thought she had broken. "I think we are most snug and comfortable. Shall I make the tea for a change?" How was it ? Miss Michal argued with her- self, lost in her wide surmises. How was it that he could so cheerfully set aside the very thought of Kingswood, and adapt himself to his cramped life here, while yet there had been upon his face that look of intense longing which now she fancied she must have seen there before t " Has — has anything occurred to harass you to-day, Scot ?" she asked, falling back upon the plain question. THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 107 " I'm sorry to say there has," answered Scot, sweetening the cups with unnatural gravity. " Wait till I've experimented upon the teapot." "Now you've finished, Scot," put in Miss Michal, anxious for her reply. " You have no idea how comical you look; and you need not have poured quite so slowly. Well f " "Well, I've been greatly exercised in my mind by that highly respectable dealer in umbrellas." 41 I'm so glad," cried Miss Michal, breathing freely once again. " I had been laying it to that old Frenchman, You're sure that's all ?" "All ! Could the human mind sustain a heavier pressure f " ****** "Oh, Doris, my darling, to think what it might have been I" The girl, still in her habit, was sitting with her head against her aunt's knee, as she had always loved to sit as a child when she had anything serious or sad to say ; and now she had been telling of her danger and her rescue. Miss Joan's hand was on the bright hair, which still hung in loosened twists, and her very heart spoke in the frightened tones. 108 the squire's legacy. " Oh, Doris darling, to think what it might have been !" "Perhaps," said Doris, her eyes intent and wondering in their gaze upon the fire, "I should have fallen safely with Hero, Aunt Joan. It — it might have been better." " Better, my dear ! Could anything have been better than Mr. Monkton's happening to pass just then, and being so cool and prompt ! Doris, my pet, where is your gratitude!" " My gratitude t Oh, Aunt Joan !" No — it was no wonder, Miss Joan said. She had had a good cry herself which had refreshed her greatly after her breathless and terrified reception of the broken recital; but still, of course, it was no wonder Doris trembled so. But the excitement, however natural, must not be encouraged. " Tou have been home a long time, my dear ; what have you been doing, not to have changed your habit ?" " Only thinking, Aunt Joan. Just sitting here and — thinking." Miss Joan raised the young face and kissed it softly. " Thinking is well at such a time, my love," THE squire's legacy. 10 9 she whispered, " for I know what your thought would be." Then she altered her tone, and hurried Doris away to change her dress, that she might be ready for her father. It was but natural that Colonel Egerton's eyes should so lovingly follow his daughter that night, as she moved about the rooms with a new, quiet gravity; and, in the haunting sense of having so nearly lost her, quite natural it was, too, that she seemed doubly precious to him. " Doris," he said to her, once in the evening, putting his arm round her as she hovered about him, " you must not go about like a ghost, just waiting upon me and Aunt Joan, and forget- ting your old laugh and badinage. No, this won't do, pet. We must have Kenneth down. Shall you venture to tell him of this sad day's work, my dear?" he added, kissing her with great tenderness. " Tell Kenneth !" she echoed, gently. " Yes, papa, I shall tell Kenneth. I shall always tell Kenneth everything." "That's well, of course, my dear; but— poor Kenneth !" 110 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. u Oh! father," she cried, with a strange sudden passion, as he kissed her once again, u let me — let me stay with you always." •* My darling, it did not need this alarm to show us how dear we are to each other. But Kenneth is not going to take you far away from me; besides, I have promised, and his heart would break." "Yes, father," she said, with one quick, tearless sob ; u I — I was not thinking of what I said. It was so sweet to feel how you loved me, that, for that moment, I did not think of how — how I could never break my promise to Kenneth — never !" "Now sing to me, dear. T shall not go down to the Black Birches to thank Mr. Monkton to-night, for it might be an intrusion ; but I shall be off before you are down in the morning. What message shall I take from you ?" " You will know best, father," she said, going at once to the piano ; while all the time there rose between her eyes and the notes a vision of the room down at the old farm. a Doris," said Miss Joan's voice, breaking in among the harmonies, as she turned her head THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. Ill and passed on the message which a servant had brought, "you are wanted, dear. Don't stay out in the cold." Without any surprise, without even any change in her dreamy, wistful expression, Doris left the room at once, to find Anna Wakeley in the hall, timidly shrinking from the lamplight ; shrinking even farther back, it seemed, as Doris went kindly towards her. " Oh ! Anna, how late it is for you to have walked here, along that dark, solitary way! Is anything the matter T " I want to speak to you, Miss Egerton," the woman whispered, glancing fearfully around her in the lighted hall, and never letting her eyes rest upon the pretty, kind face so near her own ; " I want to speak to you, but I am afraid." " Fowles," said Doris, turning to the butler, who was crossing the hall just then, " will you send some hot wine and water to my dressing- room, for Mrs. Wakeley 1 I want to speak to her there. Come, Anna." " It is so usual for you to come here about your work," she added, when she had closed the door upon them, " that no one will wonder." 112 THE SQUIRE S LEGACY. " Miss Egerton," began Anna Wakeley, eagerly, "will yon give me a little work to-night — anything, — just to serve as an ex- cuse when I — when I go back?" So Doris, always thoughtful, and keen to read what was kindest, spread some work upon the couch, and was planning it busily with Anna, when her maid entered the room with the tray which Fowles had prepared; and Anna, her head bent, and her eyes fixed upon the muslin as if she could thus hide their eager, timid restlessness, was drawing her breath hard and quick. " Take it with you, Anna, and do it when you can. 9 ' So Doris said, as she crossed the room, and locked the door behind her maid. Then she watched Anna take the wine, refus- ing to hear a word until it was finished. " Difficult as it may be to you to drink it," she said, gently, " it will do you good after your long cold walk." "Miss Egerton," whispered Anna, with the same shrinking, and the same hurried glance around her, even in the locked room, "I have come to beg a favour of you. You are so kind that I think you will not refuse me even thus." THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 113 44 Indeed I will not, Anna." Anna looked again round the room — the pretty bright room, lighted so softly and richly by its wax-lights and the wide, low fire — and then her eyes rested on the young lady, who stood there ready and willing to help her. A pretty girl in a white dress, in a pretty room. Was that all f Yes, all ; if the sympathy whioh is boundless, and the love which is pure and pitiful, have no beauty of their own. 44 Miss Egerton," said Anna, still in the same shrinking attitude, though her words were less broken now in their intense eagerness, " if it were ever known why I have been here to- night, I should never live to oome again — I think. Tou understand, and you will-— save me. "Oh, Anna/' whispered Doris, laying her warm little hands on the woman's looked fingers, " how sad, how sad ! But do you think I ever could betray you V" " No, no ; don't look so kindly at me, please* Let me get it said. Miss Egerton, I trust you so entirely ! Will you do this one thing I am oome to ask f " " Yes." VOL. II. I 114 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. Simply though the word was uttered, its truth and steadfastness were beyond words. " You yourself — you will not give it to any one else to do f " " No." "Oh, Miss Egerton, will you promise this? Pray, pray, let me feel it as a promise !" "It is a sacred promise, Anna. I know you would not plead with me to do a wrong or im- possible thing for you, so I have promised." " Thank God !" She took her hands from Doris's, and pushed the hair from her temples, still catching her breath in hurried gasps. " I canndt say all I need, Miss Egerton ; words choke me to-night. This is what I pray you to do — yourself— no one else. Oh, tell no one else, in pity to me ! To-morrow night " — the words sank here to the lowest whisper — " Mr. Monk- ton must watch at the Green Pits. Will you tell him!" "I!" The word was a cry, uttere<J as Doris uttered it. " Oh, Miss Egerton, you refuse V 9 cried Anna, with the sharpness of a great shock. " And I ' THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 115 can ask no one else ; and — it is for his sake ! If you refuse, there is no one else can help him. I dare not warn any one else. I dare not trust any one else. If I warn him myself my own life is in danger, and, if he is not warned, his own life " " I will do it, Anna," said Doris, so gently in the woman's sobbing pause, that no one could have guessed the pain she stifled. " I will tell him this. No other ears shall hear, and your name shall never be breathed. Trust me, Anna ; I have promised. I will do it all myself —only I." 12 116 CHAPTER VII. IT had been daylight barely for an hour, yet Colonel Egerton's visit at the Black Birches was over, and he was walking down the garden with Scot Monkton. The two Mends stopped at the gate, the eyes of both straying beyond the Larch Walk to the windows of the Dower House, and for a few moments there was silence — for Scot could not well enlarge upon the heart- felt thanks reiterated by Doris's father. Colonel Egerton stood beside the gate, his dress fash- ionable, his face, with its soft white hair, refined and high-bred, his bearing calm and soldierly; yet young Monkton, leaning near him in the working suit which Miss Michal pathetically designated a "keeper costume," his brown hair uncovered, and his slight muscular hands show- THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY* 117 ing themselves no strangers to hard work, borer withal a still prouder stamp of aristocracy. " I do so wish you would come," urged Colo- nel Egerton, earnestly. "My daughter was very anxious that I should persuade you. They will wait breakfast m the hope of your accom- panying me. My cousin leaves us soon, and Doris* ha* much to say to you, because yester- day she could scarcely utter her thanks. We will not try to detain you. Just let me prevail upon you." Colonel Egerton pleaded earnestly a& well as courteously, but none the less in vain. Scot, with a thorough appreciation of the kind mo-* tive both of father and daughter — though of course he could guess nothing of Doris's chief reason for wishing to see him to-day — declined the visit, and, after a repetition of his compan- ion's thanks and regret, turned back to the house. Doris, standing shyly beside the: staircase window, saw her father returning alone up the: Larch Walk, and turned away with a slow, quiet sigh. Yet she had never felt that Scot would come. She had spoken the simple truth that morning when she had told her father — 11 8 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. surprising him by her early appearance to see him off—that she knew he would not bring Mr. Monkton. "No, my dear, he would not come," said Colonel Egerton, when Doris met him, and looked at him questioning^. " I wish," he added, presently, after he had maintained a very unusual silence half through his breakfast, " Monkton would come here oftener. The houses are so near. When I lived here before, he was for ever popping in,, and made this house seem all one with Kings- wood. It is such a pity for him to isolate him- self." Miss Bradford repeated the word with a laugh. " Why, Tom, Mr. Monkton could never isolate himself, if he tried the experiment. It is. not in. the power of such natures as his. No man could fail more signally in an attempt to isolate himself." " Well, I wish — as Eingswood seems out of the question — tbat he were better off down at the Black Birches." " Is he poor, father ?" " Yes, dear — when is my cup coming back i — of course he's poor. I suppose you will say THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 119 it is a feather in his cap, eh, being a romantic little dame V" " Yes." " I thought so, as you have not inherited a grain of your father's common sense. Joan," he added, with an irrepressible satisfaction in the would-be stern glance he directed towards his cousin, "you and Kenneth have much to answer for, in making my little girl so fanciful. I recognise your own whimsical ideas." " Not mine this time," replied Miss Joan, in her pleasant voice ; " Doris's own — or George Herbert's, perhaps. He saw in a poor man not only God's image, but ' Christe's stamp to boot ' — you remember?" "Pooh, pooh!" interposed Colonel Egerton, cheerily. " Don't let us get sentimental over Mr. Monkton's poverty ; it is voluntary and absurd." " As a cynic, you are a failure, papa," said Doris, smiling. " As a sensible person, you are a far greater failure, little lady. Eat some breakfast, and chatter away. I feel as if the world were standing still when you forget to laugh and tease." 120 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. "And when I tease yon, the world goes whirling ronnd too fast. Major Porter may well say, ' There's always a great deal of con- tradiction abont a military man.' " But, though Doris spoke so lightly, her heart was very heavy this morning. All through her restless night, she had unconsciously built upon the hope of her father's bringing Mr. Monkton back with him, and had arranged various me- thods of speaking privately to him at the Dower House. But all those plans had crumbled into nothing now ; and what opportunity could she find of giving the warning which she must give today to Scot himself? One after another, wildly and without cohe- rence, plans presented themselves to her during this silence to which her father so strongly ob- jected ; but not one rose from the confusion in any distinct or available form, and it was in literal terror that she saw, in fancy, how that day might slip away and leave her still hesi- tating, and her promise unfulfilled. And besides this uncertainty as to her own best course of action, was the burden of concealment, so new to her. Had the secret been her own, she would long ago have confided it to her aunt, THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 121 and won assistance in the arrangement for an interview with Mr. Monkton. But* though the temptation visited her again and again, she had no fear of yielding to it, even in an unguarded moment ; for always deep-rooted and steadfast was the knowledge that the secrert was not hers. But — though Doris did not know this— the burden of this first secret would not have been removed, even if lightened for her, by Miss Joan's sympathy and help ; for deepest of all lay her intense anxiety for thqt night to pass safely by, without danger to anyone at the Black Bircbe*. And this burden of her own share in it wa»y after all, but a feather's weight compared with that fear for Scot which was so preponderant above all. Now and then during the morning, Mis* Brad- ford's uneasy gaze followed the girl's restless quiet movements ; and once or twice she spoke her thoughts aloud. " What is it, dear? Are you anokros about the weather, that you haunt the windftw so ? Or are you looking for some one?" Then, " Are you poorly, Doris, that you look so pale and cannot settle to anything ?" 122 THE squire's legacy. At each reminder, Doris would turn to some task, with a jest at her own idleness. But pre- sently Miss Joan saw the return of the harass- ing thought, and of the anxious (yet inexplic- able) watchfulness.. " The child must be expecting Kenneth, " she decided, at last, to her own quiet satisfaction ; " but, as she is so unusually shy about it, I will say nothing." Though minute by minute this weight in- creased upon her, still it seemed to Doris that the morning hours literally flew by ; so eager, yet so powerless, was she to grasp one for her purpose. But when luncheon was over, and there fell that long presage of the dusk of the December afternoon, this nervous uncertainty left her. She had wasted all the hours, and even minutes, which she dared waste, without chance giving her the opportunity she so eager- ly sought. Now she must make the oppor- tunity for herself in spite of everything. There was no alternative now ; she had but simply to do her best in the one course open to her — that of seeking Scot in his own home. Colonel Egerton was going to drive into Minton to dine at mess, and Miss Bradford said THE squire's legacy. 123* he should take her as far as Comely Place, and she would walk home, after a brief call upon, Margaret Chamberlain. " And you will come, of course, Doris V* her father added. " No, papa — please." "What! A young lady's convenient head- ache, because Margaret Chamberlain is in the question ?" " No, papa, I have no headache," said Doris,, honestly, though her white face would have verified any suoh excuse ; " I only just feel in- clined to walk about near home. I shall be sure to go to meet Aunt Joan presently. No, I haver no headache, papa ; I seldom have, you know." She waited to watch the carriage drive away,, and Miss Joan answered her nod and smile, and repressed a little sigh. " I'll bring her home a present," observed Col- onel Egerton, apparently convinced as to the only efficient panacea for pale face and wistful eyes. Down the Larch Walk and to the bridge,, went Doris, looking around her and before her - r searching every nook in the landscape, in the fast-decreasing hope of seeing the form she 124 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. longed to see. Before crossing the river, she had lingered a few minutes, stooping to gather one tiny frond of fern which peeped from a little sheltered spot beside the bridge, and longing that Scot might come and find her, here on her own side of the stream. But no— there was .still no sign of him ; and now she went on a little more hastily, in a new panic lest he should have left home after he and her father had sepa- rated in the morning* The dusk was gathering as if from the four quarters of the sky at once, when Doris was taken into the dining-room at the Black Birches, to find it empty and chill. The fire was quench- ed, with one huge block of coal and a sloping mountain of black dust, which tended decidedly more to economy than to idle voluptuousness ; and one of the windows stood open in a manner which might be conducive to health, though certainly not to luxury, upon a Winter after- noon. Doris shuddered, yet it was not from the •cold, for she chose her seat beside the open window. It was perhaps a vague mental pro- test against the thought of bringing a fresh anxiety here wher e The opening of the THE squire's lrgaoy. 125 door behind her snapped this slight, dark thread of thought. "Miss Egerton, you should not hare been brought here/' said Miss Windish, closing her small limp fingers round Doris's ; " I have been busy with my poultry — I am trying maize for them, as they did not fatten sufficiently on oats — and I am having a fire put in the other room, thinking Scot would like it, because it is his birthday to-day." " His birthday F Miss Michal notioed nothing in the tone be- yond its surprise — nothing of the sorrow the girl felt at having brought her warning to Scot upon this birthday which could, even in any case, have so little mirth and festivity. "Yes, his birthday," repeated Miss Michal, pensively. " He is twenty-nine to-day. It used to be a great day at Eingswood ; but, though I've had a fire in the other room — which we don't make a rule of having, except on Sundays — I couldn't think of anything else to make the day unusual, my dear. Ah !" It was well Miss Windish did not pause in her little ques- tioning parlance to note its effect upon Doris. "Ah I that is actually an atom of osmunda — 126 THE squire's legacy. a poor bit, but there's no doubt about it ; and you brought it today, that's fortunate. A frond of osmunda put over the door brings good luck to a house; but you know that, of course ?" " No, I didn't know," said Doris, not so ready as usual to smile at the little lady's superstition, while she bent eagerly over the fern. "I'm very glad I brought it, if it be so." " flow are we to put it up?" questioned Miss Michal, holding her head thoughtfully on one side. " Elizabeth is about as short as I am, and so is Liath." " Let me try," said Doris, brightly ; " not be- cause I am very tall, but I can reach perhaps — on a chair on tiptoe." She had not even yet been able to ask for Scot ; and this new path for her thoughts was a kind of respite between the shock of hearing this day was to be a festival at the old farm, and the approaching shock of ber tidings to him. So a chair stood in the open doorway, and a girl stood on her toes upon this chair, her arms and head raised, and her whole attention en- grossed by something at the top of the door, when Scot came up to the step. THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 127 And while Doris descended very slowly, and stopped to wipe the dust from her hand before she offered it to him, he wondered a little how that slight exertion could so entirely have robbed her cheeks of their soft, bright colour. It was his birthday! For a few minutes Doris could forget everything but that, and her good wishes were so bright as well as earnest, and his reception of them was so frank and pleasant, that soon there followed merry words, and even laughter, in the little group. It was just as the one haunting thought of what she had to do, fell again with its heavy weight upon the girl's mind, that a tiny rustle broke the silence, and down from its post above the door, touching Scot's shoulder as it passed, fell the fern. " Will that tumble be disastrous in its con- sequences, Aunt Michal ?" inquired Scot, laugh- ing, as he picked it up and mounted to replace it. " Or is it merely the effect of my disbelief in its magic V 9 " Mr. Monkton," said Doris, with a sudden thought which surprised even herself, as she stood beside the chair and looked up into his face— in her great earnestness laying a detain- 128 THE squire's legacy. ing hand upon bis arm — " please let me put it back. If you bad not come in at that moment, I should have made it safe." " Now/' she said, when he had held the chair for her, and had taken her hand while she stepped down, " will you, in return, come and get me a frond V I saw another root at the bridge, but I could not reach it. Will you ?" How could he help taking it as a joke — he, with his sturdy scorn of superstition, and his keenness to read her own amused wonder at it ? But, in his innate courtesy, he was at her service even in a jest. " You will not really put it above your own door ?" he asked, as they walked down the gar- den together, while Miss Michal, relieved at having paved the way for the entrance of that capricious dame who turns the wheels of affairs, was able to dedicate her mind to fires. Doris did not answer ; indeed, she had not spoken one word, when they reached the other side of the river, and Scot had brought her the fern from a little nook which was sheltered from every wintry breath. She took it, still without a word, leaning against the comer of the bridge, and a minute afterwards, not knowing what she THE squire's legacy. 129 did, she had dropped it, and her hands were clasped as they hung down before her. " I — I want to speak to you, Mr. Monkton. I want to say something very urgently and anxiously." Dusk though it was, she — watching so wist- fully — could see the look of patient quietness which fell upon his face in preparation for what she might say to him ; but nothing could she understand of the suppressed yearning which battled with that patient quietness. " You will be surprised," she said, trying to speak easily and brightly, " at what I ask of you, because I cannot explain why I ask it; but when I remember how good you were to me yesterday, I have courage to ask you to be good to me to-day." If, instead of longing to make easy for him the task of listening and following her mean- ing, she had tried to make it hard, she could but have chosen those very words. " Whatever it is," he said, in the quietness of real pain, " I will do it." The eagerness and gladness of her thanks were the result of her long previous excitement, but of course he knew nothing of that. VOL. n. K 130 THE squire's legacy. " You have promised," she said ; " you re- member that you have promised, Mr. Monk- ton r " Indeed I do." " Then to-night, at dark, will you have men — help — you understand what I mean. Oh! please try to understand — and watch at the Green Pits t" What wonder was it that his laugh rang out so merrily in that first moment? And who could ever tell what the relief was to him to find that his given promise touched only him- self? " Mr. Monkton," she cried, with a catching in her breath, " it is not a jest. Oh, please don't laugh, or you will never be really prepared !" " I am prepared now, Miss Egerton. Please tell me more." The laugh bad been but momentary, and the ready promptitude and fearlessness were habitual. " Will you take men," entreated Doris, put- ting foremost this addition to Anna Wakeley's request, which her own intense* anxiety dictat- ed, " and watch in the Green Pits to-night — all night?" THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 131 "Why?" " Ah, I cannot tell you why !" she sighed. " I do not know." " Some folly has been repeated to alarm yon, I fear, Miss Egerton," said Scot, tranquilly. *' Don't believe a word of it, please. It is some nonsense originated by Wakeley, or by that Frenchman who is with him now. What can they do about here to-night ? Wakeley is too experienced a poacher to look for game at the Green Pits, and Sourdet too experienced a vil- lain to look for me there — after dark." "Oh, Mr. Monkton," cried Doris, in a new access of fear at his words, " don't smile over it ; — don't treat it as nonsense, or even as a false alarm. Indeed — indeed I never spoke more in earnest in my life, nor did the person who told me, and who bound me over to secrecy." "Bound you to secrecy?" questioned Scot, thoughtfully. " Yes ; and it is that which makes it so hard to speak at all, and so doubly hard to make you believe me." There was a little pause, and then Scot spoke as earnestly as she had done, though without a shade of fear, or even of uncertainty* k2 132 THE squire's legacy. " I see," he said ; " you would not have con- sented to this secrecy, or to do this task your- self, if you had not seen it would benefit some one. And only Anna Wakeley could have warned you — Do not start; the river cannot repeat my words, and report them to her brute of a husband, or his traitor of a friend, and there was no promise made as to my guessing. It was cruel of Anna to go to you with this need- less alarm — very cruel ; but I suppose she did it for the beet, poor thing T It's rather hard some- times to know what is best in an emergency ; and what can she do in her dread ? I don't know how I can thank you, Miss Egerton, for your kind fulfilment of the promise. It may have been harder for you even than I guess, for I know you would not shrink from it in any case. Now will you let me see you safely home — quickly too, as it is going to be a wet evening?" Scot spoke quite easily, and Doris, as she walked beside him up the Larch Walk, listening to his pleasant desultory chat, grew to fancy that her fears had been exaggerated just a little perhaps, and that Scot Monkton was always coolly on his guard, and quite sufficiently arm- THE squire's legacy . 133 ed against malice or ferocity by his own cour- age. Yet, when they stood to separate, in the gathering dusk, all her fears rushed back upon her — not that she would again give utterance to them, either to sadden or annoy him. She only asked, pleading both with look and tone — " You will not go alone to the Green Pits, Mr. Monkton? You will remember that you have promised to have companions in your watch ? Would not the police " "Fine fellows," said Scot, with his cheery laugh, " but unnecessarily fine for this oocasion. We will manage it without the police, Miss Egerton." " But you will be cautious V 9 she urged, her own gravity too deep to be disturbed. "I know I seem very cowardly, but isn't it some- times rash even to be courageous ? May not circumstances make even bravery unwise V 9 " I will remember," said Scot, quite lightly. ** I will remember every word you have said, Miss Egerton. Please run into the house, for here comes the rain in earnest." Of course Doris begged him to come in for shelter ; but she knew that to-day, for the first time, the words were a mere form, as she was 134 THE squire's legacy. thoroughly anxious for him to be at home. Her fear for him had none of that cowardice which would have tempted him to stay with her. " But," she said to herself, softly, as — in spite of the rain — she went quite slowly through the shrubbery, "I shall send Fowles to-night on some message to Miss Windish, and he shall take Lloyd, as if for company ; and I shall beg papa to go, when he comes home ; and I " But the thought was finished only by one long, pleading gaze up through the grey of the evening sky. And all the time she heard Scot whistling cheerily, as he went down the Larch Walk in the rain. Miss Bradford had reached home before the rain set in — Margaret Chamberlain having been out when she arrived at Comely Place — and so she took no very keen interest in the subject of the weather ; rain being, as a rule, a topic which either touohes us very nearly — through soaked garments and delayed enjoyment — or leaves us in a supreme indifference, occasionally spiced a little by self-gratulation touching our easy-chair by the fire. But to Doris this rain seemed a matter of intense personal interest. THE squire's legacy. 135 So restlessly she wandered about the house, backwards and forwards between the drawing-* room and one of those upper windows which looked beyond the Larch Walk, that her aunt's tone of astonishment grew at last gently re- proachful. " Tes ; I am very idle and restless, Aunt Joan/' the girl said, gently, stopping at he? side ; " and I wish I could help feeling fascinated to look out into this dismally wet night. Shall I play to you, Auntie, or*read ?" But presently she would lay down her book or leave the piano, and, standing in the dark again, at that high unshuttered window* would pierce the darkness, and see in fancy that room at the Black Birches where Miss Michal sat and fretted for Scot, while he spent this night (which was to have been a festival) in watching out-of-doors in the wet and cold and darkness. " But I am a girl," said Doris once, shaking her head as if she would have shaken off these haunting thoughts; "it is different for him." " Well, Doris ?" "Well, Auntie," she answered, bravely, as 136 THE squire's legacy. she re-entered the room and met Miss Joan's quizzical question, " I see no difference since I went last. The rain beats against the windows, and the river is high and rapid, and the larches bend in their slow, ghostly way, and the wind " " There's your papa I" interrupted Miss Joan " I hear the wheels." But the carriage had come home empty, with a note from Colonel Egerton, who was staying at Minton all night. Doris felt the tears over- flow her eyes as she read it. " Doris, my dear," said Miss Joan, " it is very late ; read me a chapter, and let us go to bed." Doris, struggling bravely with her nervous- ness, had still a tremor in her voice as she read the grand, calm words ; and the lips which Miss Joan kissed so tenderly, had just then lost their healthy redness. Doris's own room was so bright with fire and candlelight that she turned away from it, and stood once more in the dark, before that window on the stairs. The wind came shrilly through the woods, bending the leafless boughs; and, passing down the valley, wrinkled the swollen river. For a few minutes Doris opened the THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 137 "window and leaned through, the rain blinding her as she tried to fix her eyes steadily upon that one blurred and misty spot of light down at the Black Birches, and to picture who was in the room behind, and who was out in the rain and darkness, watching for a vague something which perhaps could never be grasped and grappled with. 138 CHAPTER VIII. THAT spot of light upon which Doris gazed through the falling rain, was the wide unshuttered window of the kitchen at the Black Birches. True the lamp and fire still burned in the drawing-room, but the shutters and curtains hid their light from Doris, while the acute consciousness of the failure of her birthday schemes metaphorically hid it too from Miss Michal. What was the pleasure of sitting alone and anxious, even in the best room in the house, while the one for whom the room had been prepared chose to spend the night out-of- doors, " catching his death " as fast as he could ? " As if he could not have chosen another day to go mad upon !" Miss Michal had offered herself this suggestion twenty times since midnight, and yet she would not go to bed, or even let the birthday fire die. THE squire's legacy. 1 39 Wandering between the lonely drawing-room and the huge faggot fire in the kitchen, she found some little relief in these mutterings; while Elizabeth — obediently replenishing the kitchen fire — was lost in wonderment at her mistress's new and mysterious indifference to the waste of coal and wood. " Do you wish to go to bed, Elizabeth V" in- quired Miss Michal, standing on the hearth; while the light danced upon her small black person and her extended palms, and did its best to bring a tinge of colour into her little pensive face. " No, ma'am ; I shan't for anything go to bed and leave you up, and the master and Liath out — no, not for anything." Even this girl could see Miss Michal's greater fitness for receiving than bestowing protection, and, in spite of the little lady's sighs and petu- lance and unlimited vagaries, some qualities — which Elizabeth, like others, felt without com- prehending — drew her, as it had drawn others, to guard Miss Michal. " Throw more wood on, Elizabeth. How far do you think the light reaches from this window?" 140 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. " Not far, ma'am, because of the rising ground and the stacks. But up at the Dower House, from the top windows, they'd see." "They can see it from the Green Pits, though?" " Oh, yes, 'em, of course." " Of course," ruminated Miss Michal, turning up the skirt of her dress, and looking at the window, where she could see nothing but waves of light upon the panes ; "of course." " It's strange that master and Liath should both be bent on staying out to-night, ma'am, isn't it!" u Strange T" ejaculated Miss Michal, with an attack of irrepressible energy. " It's lunatic !" " Elizabeth — " after a pause — " put the kettle on ; your master must have something hot. So must Liath, if he has the sense to come in for it, stupid as he is. Bless the girl ! Don't put it here, quenching the flame and the light. Take it to the drawing-room fire. It won't incon- venience anybody there." And then it was odd to see how cunningly Miss Michal waited for the maid's absence be- fore she would venture to push the poker into the fire — already glowing and crackling and THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 141 blazing — because she had a nervous conscious* ness that the action was totally at variance with her usual practice, and with her strictly enforced lessons to her servant. 14 There," she murmured, with complacence, when she had scientifically replaced the poker without a sound, breathing hard herself the while, as we generally do when engaged on any task of supernatural silence ; " surely that must attract him in. If it doesn't " — with an access of vivacity — " he must be madder even than I think." Apparently Scot was not madder in. reality than in Miss Michal's thoughts, for, two or three minutes after she had filled the kitchen with the beautiful restless light, the outer door at the back of the room was opened, and he came in ; standing to close the door behind him as noise- lessly as he had opened it. "Good gracious!" cried Miss Michat— and evidently these two words expressed all she felt it necessary to express, for after their utterance she relapsed. into an injured, firelit Niobe. " What a blaze, Aunt Michal I" Scot said, with the greatest ease. " This welcomes a fellow splendidly ; and yet I have come to ask you 142 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. to let me put it out, or screen the window." "Do what you like, Scot/' observed Miss Michal, plunged into extreme melancholy. " See," said Scot, reading, in this new extravagance and wakefulness all her kind motives and her real anxiety for him, " I can close the shutters, and stop the gaps with pastry boards and other trifles, and let the Are alone. It's very jolly, Aunt Michal." And when he had finished his work at the window, and had made sure that through no crevice could the light creep into the outer night, he came and stood upon the hearth, and looked as if he thoroughly enjoyed it, and as if it might be one hour past mid-day instead of an hour past midnight. "At last you've returned to your senses, then?" questioned Miss Windish. " Andwhere's that ridiculous Liath ?" " Liath is in the stack-yard, and I'm going back to him in a minute." "Oh," murmured Miss Michal, struggling beneath her injuries, " I might have expected that! I don't see why anything should ever surprise me in this house. I ought to be used to everything now." THE squire's legacy. 143 "Don't get used to everything, AuntMichal ; life is so dull without its surprises." She looked up at him as he spoke, and a smile came trespassing into her face ; but in an instant it had darted away again, as if enjoying a game of Tom Tiddler's Ground with the firelight. " You look," she said, " like a Norwegian setting out for the fiord. I remember in Norway, when we " This abrupt pause was so very evidently a painful one for Miss Michal, that Scot hastened to fill it in. " It's a snug costume for this weather, Aunt Michal," he said, his shrewd, handsome face half covered by the sealskin cap with its long ears, and his brown beard wet with rain. " You've no idea how comfortable I am." " Oh, yes, I've an idea," asserted the little lady, with gathering vehemence ; " else would you be insane enough to choose this sort of lively night to spend with a servant-man among the ricks and the rats ? But that I know there can be no reason in creation, I should ask what your reason could be." "I cannot possibly tell you till to-morrow, Aunt Michal. I do not even know myself." 97 144 THE squire's legacy. "So likely," observed Miss Michal, shaking her head ; " so very probable." '• It does not sound very probable, I own, but it is intensely true. Now, Aunt Michal, do go to bed. Let me feel you are comfortably asleep. a Is this to be a regular habit now, Scot? inquired Miss Michal, pathetically. "Do you mean to spend all your nights out of doors ?" "Not quite," returned Scot, still cheerfully; " only to-night, I hope." " I don't see that hoping has much effect, for I've hoped for hours that you'd come back to your senses." " And here I am." Just then Elizabeth came in to say that the water boiled, and Miss Windish turned to ask Scot what he would take warm. "Coffee would be the best, of course," she observed, resignedly, "but I daresay you would rather have negus, or spirits." " Aunt Michal," he said, touched by the little lady's thought for him, " what a brick you are I Give me something for Liath, please. Poor old fellow ! he's doing his duty with a rare wide- awakeness." " Oh yes, of course ; and you're asleep in a THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY . 145 warm bed, and forget your duty, and want nothing — oh, of course." After which little ebullition of genial wrath, Miss Michal became brisk and active, and brewed such a jug of coffee for Liath (while Scot took his) as made the old man quite ap- prove of turning night into day. Again Miss Windish and Elizabeth were left alone in the house, and, in spite of little variations of spleen and sorrow, tears and invective, the small hours crawled past them wearily, and brought no change; until the inaction and suspense became unendurable to Miss Michal. She threw a waterproof over her shoulders, and opened the back door, sending a feeble call out into the wet and heavy darkness. The frail sound travelled just a yard or two, and then merged helplessly into the greater sounds. " I'm going," she said, looking back into the room, after waiting vainly for an answer to her call, bar mind now evidently braced to an act of heroism. " Get me an umbrella, Elizabeth, and my goloshes," " Hadn't I better come, ma'am, to carry it, and to help you along ?" vol. n. ii 1 46 THE squire's legacy. " No," returned Miss Michal, heroically ; " take care of the house. How do we know what thieves may not be about?" And, with this cheering thought for the girl who was to be left behind alone, Miss Michal emerged into the night, defiantly wielding her umbrella against the elements, and raising juicy sounds with her goloshes, as she struggled on to the Green Pits ; feeling it incumbent on her to give expression to her feelings by means of groans, and calls, and other varied ejaculations; so that, even through the regular, monotonous noise of the wind and rain, Miss Michal's transit could be no secret. " Oh I good gracious !" The shrill exclamation pierced the wet atmo- sphere, and Miss Michal made a dead pause, her feet sinking gradually into the soil as she stood, and a circular fountain of rain falling round her already soaked umbrella. " Scot," she called, " is it you ? Oh, it's you, then, Liath, is it? Why don't you speak? How stupid you are, hurrying on in that way ! Just as if," she added, gloomily, to herself — " I'd come out to kill them! — Scot" (raising her tone), " it's only me." THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 147 " Miss Windy," said Liath's whispering voice, as his small, dark figure came silently from the opposite direction, " what is it ?" • " Liath !" — Miss Michal literally shrieked his name, in her relief — " it's you, is it 1 Then that was your master. Where's he gone?" " Master's 'bout at the Green Pits some- wheers, Miss. Hadna you better go 'ome ?" " I want to see your master," rejoined Miss Michal, with a loftiness which, in her condition and surroundings, it was a great merit to be able to maintain. "You'll have a deal o' work to do that to-night, Miss Windy," replied Liath, still in a whisper. " What with the dark, and what with his quietness, e's out o' sight entire. And wouldna he be vext, miss, if he see'd you 'ere ?" "Liath, you are always impertinent," ob- served Miss Windish, not quite sure which of her accumulated misfortunes pressed upon her most heavily just then ; " I am never surprised by it — never." "I'll see you back, miss, please," observed Liath, apparently not moved by this reflec- tion. It was by no means easy to sustain her L2 148 THE squire's legacy. haughty bearing under such very trying cir- cumstances ; but to the best of her power Miss Michal did sustain it during her progress back to the house. " Tell your master," she said then, with the meekest little failure in her attempt at sternness, as she took her dripping umbrella from Liath, and allowed him to leave her on the doorstep, " that I want him." " Yes, miss," returned Liath, decorously. Shivering and sobbing, Miss Michal stood before the kitchen fire again, turning the shin- ing boards into a map of oceans, lakes, and rivers, while it was difficult to discern which were tears and which was rain upon her cheeks - r for Miss Windish had, by nature, as innate a horror of wet and mud as a sleek little fireside cat. Elizabeth had fallen so soundly asleep that even her mistress's entrance had not roused her, nor could her mistress's sighs do so now. When the umbrella had been deposited in a distant tecess to drip, the waterproof spread upon two chairs, and the goloshes carried beyond the in- fluence of the fire, Miss Michal's mind was to a great extent relieved, and she poured herself a THE squire's legacy. 149 cup of coffee. After its disappearance, still forbearing to wake her tired maid — though glancing at her once as if she would, if she could, by a look, rouse her to a sense of her neglected duty — she fetched her Bible and sat down. Then, laying the book open in her lap at a favourite psalm, she closed her eyes fast, and felt comfortable. As various fleeting and delusive fancies, which turned chiefly on the fact of Scot's being buried under a corn-rick and Liath's dancing on it, visited Miss Michal during this recess, it is highly probable that her senses may have dozed; but, when the outer door at last was opened to admit Scot, she started up and re- marked that she should never be able to sleep again as long as she lived, she did believe. "Aunt Michal," said Scot, earnestly, as he came up to her, " what was it you said to Liath — when he found you at the Green Pits — about having heard a footstep? He has only just told me." " I don't know why I came," mourned Miss Michal. " It was of no use. Liath is such a little stupid that he wouldn't stay and show me where you were, though it was your step of 150 THE squire's legacy. course. I heard it quite plain ; though the -wind and rain made such a noise, and I had to hold my umbrella so low over my ears." " Were you quite sure of the step ?" inquired Scot, with great seriousness. *' Sure ! Do you think my brain is softening ? Though I'm sure in such weather as this any- body's brain might soften." " I'm very sorry you are so uncomfortable to- night, Aunt Michal," said Scot — and he could not hide the disappointment which made his voice stern — " but I'm still more sorry you were tempted out. It was at first the firelight here which made our watch useless ; and now your appearance, or the sound of your step or voice, has made the latter half of our watch unavailing. You evidently disturbed them." " What !" she cried. " What horrible things did I disturb, Scot?" "You startled the man, or men, whom I wanted to catch — at least, I fully believe so.. But never mind, Aunt Michal," added Scot, still,, to her intense disappointment, not attempting to change his Norwegian appearance. "Mind!" she echoed, with intense misery* u I won't. I'll try to enjoy a dark wet night THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 151 in a yard full of rate. Til try to like Liath's roughness." " No, don't," put in Scot, his vigorous, short- lived anger dying in this atmosphere of weak feminine complaint. " It is over now, and you shall not have another such a night, if I can foresee and prevent it." "I suppose," murmured Miss Michal, with what she considered to be cutting and piercing irony, "you are in a hurry to return to the Green Pits V ' " Yes, until dawn. Then I shall be ready to begin my day's work. I have a great deal to do." "Oh, Scot, my dear" — little Miss Michal's tears balanced themselves on her puckered cheeks now, and her hand was laid on the wet macintosh with more of a caress than a shiver — " do go to bed." " Not I," laughed Scot. " Hadn't you better wake Elizabeth and send her to bed? She will have time to get a good sleep, for Liath shall do her work here. And you will go, Aunt Michal ? What shall I do if you knock yourself up!" "It wouldn't much matter?" observed Miss 152 THE squire's leg ao y. Michal — but there was an irrepressible note of cheerfulness in her complaint now — "Still I'm not going to knock myself up — if that is the correct term, my dear. I shall take a few winks here, and then I shall be all right, and so will Elizabeth; and you'll find breakfast ready for you when you come in at dawn, and a good fire, and a change of dress, and — oh, Scot, I needn't have been so frightened, because the night has nearly passed, and you're not killed, and the house hasn't fallen, and — all !" That little word, ever so comprehensive, was unusually so as Miss Michal uttered it, and Scot smiled his entire comprehension. " Hark !" It was quite excusable in Miss Michal, after what she called " a night of horrors," to start and cry out in terror when she heard that rap upon the outer door, though the rap was but a quiet and somewhat timid one. " Don't go, Scot I" she cried, seizing him by the arm. " Oh ! it's awful the way you do rush into every danger you can find! I — I " The sentence could be finished only by a gasp, because Scot had advanced to open the THE squire's legacy. 153 door in the face of danger. So Miss Michal gasped, and backed as far as the kitchen would allow her, covering her eyes, while she waited for the masked murderers to demolish Scot, and to advance to put a tragic end to her. This was why she did not see what Scot saw, when he opened the door and let the wind and rain beat in, while a low whisper passed his lips — " Margaret l" She was standing out in the wet and cold and darknesd, very still in her long cloak, with its close hood over her head; yet, when the firelight reached and fell upon her faoe, Scot saw a great terror there. And still, instead of drawing her into the warmth and light, he went out to her, and closed the door behind him. 154 CHAPTER IX. THE dawn had only just broken in the east, when Doris stood, dressed, at that upper window from which, the night before, she had so anxiously watched the light at the Black Birches ; and as the grey line widened, and she could see the old farm, a little of the great heaviness of the night before was lifted from her heart. Yet she stood and waited, hardly knowing for what she waited — certainly never confessing it to herself — until the confession was made unconsciously, by her long breath of relief, when she saw a figure walking along that little pathway by the river, which led from the farm to Comely Place, and which had been worn in the grass chiefly by Steven Chamber- lain and Scot Monkton. Doris never wondered why Mr. Monkton should be coming from THE squire's legacy. 155 Comely Place in this first glow of the Winter daylight ; she felt nothing beyond her intense relief at seeing him. He was at a distance when she first caught sight of him, and, though his step was firm and quick as usual, he was evidently deep in thought. But this thought was, for a time, to be shared by no one, for the reason of Margaret Chamberlain's visit to the Black Birches the night before was a secret, at present, safe in Scot's honourable keeping. The day had dawned fairly after the tempestuous night, and the scene was made beautiful by the purple beams upon the hills. So Doris had thought, in her first relief at seeing the old farm and its master; but now she fancied that that night had, in some way, been harder and longer to him even than she had feared. So, only a few minutes after the thought had framed itself, she was standing at the shrubbery gate, just where he could see her as he came into the Larch Walk. He had his macintosh over his arm now, and wore only the short, closely-buttoned coat, with its fur collar and cuffs, which, with the high dragoon boots, had reminded Miss Michal 156 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. of some unrecalled period of Norwegian experi- ence ; and he came towards her over the wet grass, his step quick and resolute, and strength and vigour in every movement. Yet, when he reached her, and she offered him her hand, she was sure that she had been right, and that the night had tried something beyond his strength — for how could Doris guess that it was this very meeting from which he shrank in the new-born hope of the morning? " I am so glad to see you, Mr. Monkton !" Doris had never thought of what she should say to him, when she had hastened out to meet him ; it had been done without premeditation, in the real gratitude of her heart. And even now it never struck her that he would not understand, without one word of explanation, her joy at this night's having passed him harmlessly by, and her wish to tell him so. And he did understand it all ; yet he only just pressed for a moment the hand she gave him, and answered cheerily that he had done as she had bidden him, all through the darkness, and yet was here to tell the tale. Then his eyes, which had only for a moment rested on her face, went down to the old farm, THE squire's legacy. 157 and he added, lightly, that his grain was left to him too. " I am so glad/' said Doris again, her words but meagre interpreters of her thoughts. He raised his cap then, and they turned their separate ways, neither of them glancing back. But, even from those very few and very insignificant words, one at least felt a little happier and brighter. Scot had — as he had told Miss Windish in * the night — a very busy day before him ; and she did. not see him after their early break- fast until, startled by the unexpected appear- ance of Mr. Bradford, she sent to summon him in, wherever he might be — in oonseqnence of which order, Scot came in before the darkness obliged him, and met Mr. Bradford just as courteously as he could have done at Kings- wood. "Well," said the old lawyer, eyeing him quiz* zically, " you aren't tired of it then — even yet ?" " No." " That's an easy word to say ; but who is to believe it when your voice belies the word? Tou are not only tired of this cramped life, but you are also convinced at last, if you have th# 158 THE squire's legacy. sense with which I credit you, that it is unnecessary." " You have credited me with too much sense," laughed Scot, his tone unquestionably cheerful now, as he drew an arm-chair to the fire for his old friend. " I'm convinced of nothing, except that I am glad to see you." *' Eubbish !" retorted the old lawyer, with a suspicious haste and effort in his petulance. " Let me find you less absurd and Quixotic, for Heaven's sake ! Take what is your own, and let this vast amount of folly go to the deuce — its fitting quarters." " Please don't imagine mine a martyr's exist- ence here," said Scot, with a ready cheerfulness which was as suspicious as was the lawyer's impatience. " I'm all right and comfortable. Is Kenneth at the Dower House ?" " No, I wish he were. He's fast in that city den of his, deep in the old intoxication." "Not cured quite yet?" questioned Scot, gently — It was always with rare gentleness that he spoke now of Kenneth Bradford. " Cured !" cried Mr. Bradford, his eyes spark- ling with a pride which even his real petulance •or mortification would not hide. "Nobody THE squire's legacy. 159 was ever cured of intoxication. You ought to know enough of life to know that." " I knew a cure once," said Scot, " in the very man who left me this farm. His favourite child toppled over into a vat of boiling beer, and he never touched it afterwards." " That was no cure, for who could bear the taste of his child's poison ? No, I'll defy you to cite me a real cure." " But your son's intoxication is not " "Not caused by beer — no, nor by brandy. But beer and brandy are but trifles in their effect compared with his intoxicating spirit." " I suppose his new drama is nearly completed now ?" "I don't know," returned the lawyer, as moodily as Scot had ever heard him speak. "If you listen to him one day, you suppose it to be ready and a grand success, as Doris thinks ; on the next, you begin to think it a failure, to be torn up in abject despair, as Joan thinks. 1 never listen." " I see," said Scot, with a laugh ; iC l while some believed it never would be finished, some on the contrary believed it would F " " More good lawyers," interposed Mr. Brad- 160 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. ford, testily, " have been ruined by rhythm on the brain than by losing cases." "But the ruined lawyers have made good poets/' said Scot, in his pleasant way. " Just think what a list we could make of lawyers who developed into poets — Petrarch and Metastasio ; Schiller, Goethe, and Heine; Corneille and Voltaire; not to mention our own countless poets, Chaucer, Milton, Cowper, Moore, Scott, Campbell, Gray, Longfellow, and a dozen others. I daresay old Wordsworth tried to make his son a lawyer, like himself, yet he only turned him out a Laureate after all." " Pish I" snapped Mr. Bradford, very hastily. " You always argue for the absent, — an unmanly proceeding, sir. And what do you pretend to know about the subject, pray, when you are even ignorant of the very ABC of law and equity, as regards landed property 1 Even I would not object to a man indulging in rhymes and stage buffoonery as recreation, if he stuck honourably to his law — like Blackstone or, bet- ter still, Cicero ; but, for justice sake, don't en- courage lawyers to put anything before law — a fractious child, who will not prosper with a divided attention." THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 161 " I suppose, if your son cannot get a drama accepted, or gets it accepted and it fails, that -will be the blow which will throw him back upon his profession." " I fail to see his future intentions," said the old lawyer, with an unusual heaviness in his tone, " and I think he never sees them himself. On the success of his play depends the success of all his life, if you are to believe him. Even his wife is only to be won in the hour of his possi- ble triumph, and not without it." " I see," said Scot, in that quiet voice of his which betrayed his intense earnestness. "I hope with all my heart he will succeed." And in a few minutes he had broken, in just his usual voice, the rather inexplicable pause' which followed his speech. " I was sorry to hear from Doctor Boyd that you had been troubled with your old enemy the gout. It must have been bad indeed to have tempted you to call him in, hating doctoring as you do." " Tes ; I called him in, as you say," returned the lawyer, tranquilly. "I had grown meek with pain. ' Do what you like with me, doctor/ VOL. n. M 162 THE squire's legacy. said I, * only don't give mo medicine ; and, for pity's sake, don't diet me !' " "A very submissive and hopeful patient," laughed Scot; "one who gives a physician a fair chance indeed," " Yes, I let him advise me, and — it did him good." " I was glad to see Miss Windish looking so well and cheerful," resumed Mr. Bradford, pre- sently, in a tone which was too easy, and too full of suppressed amusement, to betray its hidden motive. " When I arrived, she had just come in, leading a man with a truck and a chest of drawers." "Had she?" questioned Scot, with a laugh which was utterly frank and hearty. " She had been to a sale, then. I did not know, as I've been out all day." " Has she " — the lawyer turned his face aside as he asked the question, and looked from the window, moving his head as if interested in something outside which evaded his gaze — : * c any fortune of her own ?" " Fortune ? Of course not, Mr. Bradford." " Why of course not ?" " I. don't know ; only of course she has not." THE squire's legacy. 163 " She never told you, I suppose, and you never asked? Oh, what a matchless lawyer you would have made ! Does she ever mention her husband?" " Never !" " Humph ! It's the most curious thing that ever escaped a court of justice. Luke Haw- thorne was a capital fellow — get him out of his engineering mania — and she " "I don't know what I should do without Aunt Michal," said Scot, interposing in his simple, manly loyalty. " Catch you blaming the woman's side ! But for Luke Hawthorne to stay away and send no word (as well as Arthur Egerton having done exactly the same) is one of the few things that puzzle T. & C. Bradford. I would go into it in earnest, only I've so much to do just now." " Then I doubly feel your kindness in coming, down here," said Scot, earnestly. " Pooh ! pooh ! I'm an idiot to come at all ! Of what use is it f I only go back with a lively picture of my old client's son slaving on this despicable soil,' while the finest estate in Eng- land is left to the rats. It's more," concluded the old lawyer, running his fingers through his thick M2 165 THE squire's legacy. joyment of the tidings, " he will be safe again for a month at least." Scot glanced up in unfeigned surprise. Could Mr. Bradford be afraid of the freedom of an ignorant, dishonest boor like Wakeley ? " He has only just been discharged from gaol for robbing Aunt Michal's poultry-yard, and I had, a few weeks before, begged him off for poaching at Kingswood — somehow the offence does not seem quite the same to me, now I have no preserves of my own." "Begged him off!" ejaculated Mr. Bradford, with snappish contempt. " Well, perhaps you will be wiser some day, and know when you are dealing with that animal with the long ears, who gives a kick at the bucket he has drunk out of. Mr. Monkton, saving your presence, what folly you commit !" " I committed him that time." . "Well?" questioned the lawyer, presently, with his short snap of approbation. " And the farm is prospering, of course!" " Of course." " Coining money — are you ?" " I expect I should be," returned the young man, pleasantly, t€ only I happen to have lost so THE squire's legacy. 167 much since I've been here. There were all those sheep killed by the dogs, and then the foot-and- mouth disease came, and now this severe Winter following the dry Summer makes fodder so scarce." " Nevertheless," observed Mr. Bradford, dryly, " the enormous amount of practical experience you brought to bear on this remunerative farm, and the large capital you have to draw upon, quite compensate for these little natural draw- backs — eh ?" " If I had plenty of machinery here," contin- ued Scot, reflectively, " I could make the land pay. I should like to have invested in a flock of Cotswolds; but Liath perpetually warns me " Liath is a fool !" put in Mr. Bradford, cheer- fully. "Go in for Cotswolds, and all the machinery and inventions of the age, with every other folly you can think of. Never mind the little giant's qualms about debts. Build them up all around you, and as high as you like; then we shall have a chance of seeing you back at Kingswood, and in your right mind." After this speech, a silence fell upon the two friends, and it was only broken by the entrance 168 THE squire's legacy. of Miss Windish, and announcement of dinner. Not for any temptation would Mr. Bradford shorten one of his rare visits to the Black Birches. His calls at the Dower House might be interrupted or hurried over, but never here ; especially when — as now — he could see on young Monkton's face a fear, comically leavened with amusement, that the coming meal would make the shrewd old lawyer fume more than ever over this enforced life of his client. With all his bluffness, Mr. Bradford was too innately courteous, and too really fond of Scot, not to see, as well as make the best of everything he did in such a case as this, though so anxious to use every sign, of poverty to serve his own purpose. " Well, Miss Windish," he began, helping him- self cheerfully to the dish before him, and as genial just now as Scot himself could be, "how about that chest of drawers f " Thus encouraged, Miss Michal willingly pour- ed into a willing ear her late experience in bar- gains, and Mr. Bradford received the intelli- gence with a most unusual display of urbanity. So the evening passed off pleasantly, and it was almost midnight before Mr. Bradford ap- THE squire's legacy. 1G9 peared at the Dower House, where his coming was expected, and where everyone was sitting up for him — "even Doris," as he exclaimed, tapping her gently on the cheek, when she slipped her hand through his arm in the hall. " We've had Mr. Levey here all the evening," put in Colonel Egerton, wondering a little why his daughter should have blushed so readily at her old friend's surprise at seeing her up-for how could he guess that real anxiety had kept her to see Mr. Bradford on his return from the Black Birches ? " Levey ! You are learning to value him, I hope. I once saw an ancestor of his buy a bit of old gold from a poor woman who had very little to sell. I never saw anything so clever in my life as the way he whistled down the scale. Ah, he was an adroit old rogue, and grew rich upon his rich devices. His descend- ant, my dear, is a man to be admired ; but " — was he not already as another father to her, and, next to Kenneth, was she not dearest to him in the world? — "don't teach him to ad- mire our little girl — for Kenneth's sake." " We expected you far earlier," put in Miss Joan. "How late you stayed at the Black Birches I" 170 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. "Yes," returned Mr. Bradford; and it was only by chance that his eyes fell on Doris as they two walked to the fireside. " Fm sorry not to have been earlier." " Fm very glad," she said. And somehow, though the laugh was against her, the old lawyer understood that the words were unusually earnest. 171 CHAPTER X. npiME brought very few changes, until the •* new year was three weeks old, when Oli- ver Wakeley got his discharge, and began to fall into his old habit of prowling about the neighbourhood. Monsieur Philippe Sourdet had returned, now and then, to enjoy a day of Kingswood air from Wakeley's cottage; but had not yet felt that more than one day's change at a time would be desirable. Scot Monkton had almost entirely given up visiting now. He worked at the farm untir- ingly, early and late ; and, besides spending all his time and strength on the poor land which he could scarcely afford to enrich, he bestowed upon it a wealth of earnest and concentrated thought, with which he hoped to supply tho deficiency of capital and experience. 172 THE SQUIBBl'S LEGACY. His old friends looked in vain for him in idle hours; he seemed to have no idle hours — no idle minutes, even. He came into the house only when summoned, or when the darkness drove him. At his meals he had generally a book beside him, in which he read of crops, and cattle, and new discoveries or experiments. Even in his musings before the fire, Miss Michal saw that his thoughts were far from idle thoughts. Yet, for all this, he had ever his cheery sympathy to offer, and his help or inter- est in everything. "If he had a nature that could possibly spoil," Miss Michal would say, with a sigh, " it would be spoiled utterly, by all this slavery and denial, and by this absurd devotion to the ugliest occupation under the sun." And then she would drop a stray tear, and slip her hand into Scot's slippers, to feel if they were thoroughly warmed. Then she would look out for him, quite prepared to greet him with a catalogue of humble complaints if he came in cheerful, or showed any inclination to be prodigal in the matter of fire ; but equally prepared to buzz about him like a low-spirited bluebottle if he were harassed or jaded, and — fatal proceeding ever in such a case — ask him THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 173 to " cheer up." She had no fear of an impa- tient reply, for he was always marvellously pa- tient with her now ; and it really did grieve her as much to see him dejected as to see him lavish with fuel. So, when she heard his step in the hall to* night, she gave the fire an encouraging poke, though she had wheeled the coal-box out of sight ; and she once more spasmodically exam- ined his slippers, though she gathered a great distress the while into her small, pale features. "Scot, I never in my life was so tired of waiting. Of course I have a good deal of it to do — no one could live with you and not have patience exercised in waiting ; but "—with the meekest of sighs — " things get steadily worse every day." " I think they do," said Scot, while his face was a little turned away ; " four of the bullocks are sick now, Aunt Michal." " Dear— dear— dear !" moaned Miss Michal. " What will be the end of it ? And that osmunda was of no use, after all !" " Has it faded or fallen, then t" asked Scot, with none of bis old contempt for her supersti- tion just now. w You must give it time* you know." 174 THE squire's legacy. " So far everything has gone wrong." " So far," rejoined Scot, with a tranquil com- posure; "but then 'so far' has reached its limits ; and we've no idea what that osmunda is intending to do a little farther on." " Yet you don't believe in it an atom," sighed Miss Michal, trying to hide the melancholy smile into which she had been deluded. " See, Scot, there is a paper crushed half into your pocket ; you will be sure to lose it." "The sooner the better," said Scot, and tossed it into the heart of the fire. "What is it?" cried Miss Michal, startled more by the young man's expression than by what she fancied she had seen upon the paper. " I suppose it's a Writ. Something of that sort, at any rate. If I don't pay Wessel's bill in — I forget how many days, I shall have — I forget the punishment too." " Oh, how dreadful !" cried Miss Michal, foun- dering at once in the vague, troubled sea which rose round her at the mention of the unfamiliar legal instrument. "Oh, how terrible, Scot! What shall we do, my dear ?" " Our best," said Scot, gently separating her locked fingers. THE squire's legacy. 175 " But with this awful doom over our heads — ready to fall I" "Aunt Michal," interrupted Scot, laughing, as he took up his cornet, " there's an old Spanish proverb which says, * In trouble to be troubled is to have your trouble doubled.'" Little Miss Windish meditated a good deal over this proverb — as well as over the probable and terrible consequences of that burned docu- ment — while she sat ignoring her work during Scot's playing; but before she rose to leave him, she repeated anxiously the question which was fraught in her mind with such a weight of weal or woe. " Scot, what shall you do ! I wish you would try to form some decision." "I decided hours ago," the young man an- swered, readily. " It's not much trouble for a taan to decide when only one way lies before him, Aunt Michal." " You mean," she asked, her breath very quick in her eager anticipation, "you will go back to Kingswoodf" "I mean that I must borrow the money, Aunt Michal." The words were prompt, and even placid, 176 THE squire's legacy. yet there had passed a look over the young man's face which betrayed the intense and concentrated anxiety which his words would never betray. " From whom V she questioned, with a new hopelessness in her persistency. " Bradford, of course/' he said, rather amused, it would seem, at there being any doubt about it. "To whom else could I go on such an errand V 9 "Them you don't mind asking himf" she inquired, plaintively. " Mind it !" he answered, in sudden heat, " I would rather labour day and night for a week withont pausing, than do it ; but " — with a cool- ness which never struck her as unusual — " it is the only thing I can do." " Shall you write to-morrow, then f " a No. Why trouble him unnecessarily early f Besides, I am tremendously busy now ; and we don't know — any more than Mr. Micawber did — what may turn up. No, Aunt Michal, I shall wait a few days. Stay one moment. How does that old ballad go, for which I used to ask you so often when I was a lad f Sing it me, please, Aunt Miohal. I want to recall the air." THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 177 Pleased with the request. Miss Miohal sat upright ill her chair, folded her hands in her lap, cleared her throat, and then, puokering her brows with the distressed expression whioh she considered essential to a song, she trolled out, in a little, mellow, plaintive voioe, the half-for- gotten song — 44 We met— 'twas in a crowd." Soot sat and listened intently, his eyes upon the fire ; and, when Miss Miohal's performance was over, he raised his cornet to his lips and played the air through, easily and oorreotly. But when he began it again Miss Michal stopped him to say good-night, and hurried upstairs, wondering why the quaint familiar air had struck upon her ears so sadly. For an hour this inexplicable gloominess kept her awake, while the clear melodies crept up to her; then Scot came up the stairs, softly whistling ; and (relieved by the familiar step and cheerful sound) she turned over on her pillow, and soon had won a blissful unconsciousness of every grievance. For a few days the subject of Wessel's bill was not mentioned between Miss Windish and Scot. She avoided it because she did not think VOL. II. N 178 THE squire's legacy, of anything new, and hoped that in the pause gome great resolve wonld form itself in Scot's mind ; and he avoided it simply because it was his nature to avoid all things disagreeable. The necessity for procuring the money was ever present with him, and his thoughts sought no escape from this necessity ; but he had at once decided to take the only course which seemed open to him, and so, during the pause before he must send his request to Mr. Brad- ford, there was no need to make his aunt a sharer in the heaviness which he felt should be his alone. The day had not yet come on which he had determined to write to his old lawyer, when one morning, to Miss Michal's intense astonish- ment, he came down to breakfast in his huuting- dress. " At last you are going to take a day's pleas- ure, Scot," she sighed, as he met her astonished gaze. " You are coming to your senses gradu- ally, are you?" " Certainly, Aunt Michal, if that means that I'm coming to breakfast." Pleased as Miss Windish was to see him opposite her, in the dress which suited so well THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 179 his firm, well-made figure and handsome face, she was a little puzzled by it too. Scot had been resolute in denying himself his hunting ; had determinately ignored his old position; and decisively turned the subject aside when he had been laughed at, as too proud to follow without a couple of hunters in train, and one of the grand old Kingswood breakfasts before the start ; yet now, when things were actually going against him more than ever, here he was with every evidence of intending to enjoy himself, his step light and soldierly, as she always used to think it at Kingswood. " Why is it, Scot ?" she faltered at last, hold- ing her cup suspended as she gazed at him. "You do look surprised, Aunt Michal," he laughed. " I'm going on business. Porter says he dare not venture after the bounds on Vault- er, until I have tried him in the field. He sent him out here last night with that request, and I am going of course." "Major Porter is timid, then," propounded Miss Michal, gravely — as of course how could she know this was a little ruse of the officer's for getting his friend once more into the hunt- N2 180 THE squire's legacy. ing field? — "and he is not afraid for you, I suppose ?" "For me!" laughed Scot. ft Porter cannot be afraid for himself, but, of course, as he paid handsomely for the horse, and I undertook to break him " The speech was interrupted by the entrance of the letters, and Scot turned them over, just as he always did, quite ready to be surprised and pleased if there were anything unexpected or pleasant, and not at all ready to be depressed by such as he had lately learned to expect. "None for you, I think, this morning, Aunt Michal." « He always made the remark, just as if she were accustomed on ordinary occasions to re- ceive a large assortment ; yet, except local bills and notes and circulars, no letters had ever arrived for her since her return to Eingswood, after her fifteen years' absence. " What a long letter, Scot ! And I don't know that red address, do 1?" observed Miss Michal, gazing curiously, while she held out her hand for his empty cup, which he seemed to have forgotten. " A most extraordinary coincidence," he said, THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY, 181 still reading on, the paper held in both hands, while his brows came down over his intent eyes. " Is it about another debt ?" questioned Miss Michal, naturally objecting to her present con- dition of ignorance. "No; on the contrary, I believe it will relieve me from Wesflel's," he answered, refold- ing the^letter. " It has arrived very opportunely, I shall not need to bother Bradford about the money, after all. I see now how I can obtain it without any difficulty whatever." " Do you f " inquired Miss Michal, mournfully. "And is it all right, Scot — and honest — and straightforward V 9 " Why should it not be f But I shall go to town myself to make sure. At any rate, is it not lucky that it chanced to come just now f Would you care to read it, Aunt Michal f " " No, no," she said, with a slow shake of her head. "I don't know anything about such matters,, Scot. You know I don't. Indeed," she added, pathetically, " I don't see how you are to do so either. Just tell me of it — that's all." ? " It is a letter from a gentleman who is willing 182 THE squire's legacy. to lend small sums of money — from fifty to a hundred pounds — to gentlemen who are tem- porarily inconvenienced by debt. He requires no security beyond a note of hand," continued the young man, just quietly stating what he thought to be a fact, " and only a very moderate interest." " Then persons do that sort of thing some- times out of pure benevolence," suggested Miss Michal, without the faintest note of scepticism. "I suppose they do. After all, it seems rather a natural and comfortable idea, for an old gentleman — of course he's old — to devote a little of his riches to benefit those who are often in sorer straits than regular paupers. No doubt he is cautious only to lend where his money is safe. I shall run up to town to-night, Aunt Michal," Scot continued, putting the folded letter into his desk as he rose. "Have you any com- missions ?" "To-night," murmured Miss Michal, discon- solately. * Won't to-morrow do t" " It would lose me a day. Why should I wait?" "Because this is the seventh of February,. THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 183 and you know — at least, you would, if you were not so careless about these things — that the first and seventh of every month are invariably unlucky days." " For somebody, of course, they are ; and so are the second and eighth, and the third and ninth, and the fourth and tenth — eh, Aunt Michal?" " Don't laugh about it," urged Miss Michal, with great anxiety. "If you will choose an unlucky day, pray don't laugh about the choice ; it is so hardened of you !" He was not laughing, when she stood and watched him ride from the door ; but his face was as full of brave and easy courage to meet what was to come, as if he had known what a tremendous stake hung upon this day's decision. And Miss Michal sat down and cried. 184 CHAPTER XL THE hounds met that day within a stone's throw of Comely Place, yet neither Mr. nor Miss Chamberlain was in the gay crowd. Doris Egerton, sitting beside her father in his phaeton, in her soft white furs, glanced at the red gables beyond the shrubbery, and then asked a question mutely, as her eyes came back to her father's face. He shook his head, under- standing what puzzled her. ** Cannot say, dear. If the hounds met upon their very lawn, I don't think we should see them there. I suppose Chamberlain is too much of a bookworm, and Margaret too — sensible, shall we say ?" " Not riding, Miss Egerton !" exclaimed Rose Levey, coming up to them on her sleek, tall horse. " Have you actually never ridden since your accident ?" THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 185 " Not yet," said Doris, with a soft, bright blush. " But you will, of course f Bernard always holds you up to us as a model of what a lady should look on horseback/' " If I had been a good horsewoman, I think I should have had no accident," said Doris, simply. "What a disappointment, Miss Egerton!" cried Bernard Levey, riding up to the phaeton, on Doris's side. " We expected you to follow to-day. We are anticipating a splendid run. See, the anticipation has even tempted Mr. Monkton out, for the first time this season." " I see," said Doris, with that gracious little nod of hers, which was no matter of education, but an outbreak of her own inherent pleasant- ness; and her eyes, straight and clear and bright, were fixed on the horseman who had just ridden up to the group. But a distant glance, however bright, was not enough for Rose Levey, and before Doris's eyes came back, in answer to her companion's next speech, Miss Levey's horse was hovering as near Vaulter as that aristocratic little quadruped (his blood was as blue in his own 186 THE squire's legacy. conceit as that of all the Howards) would allow, and she was looking round her with that smile peculiar to a consciousness of pride (not less in her hunter than its rider) and in no way akin to the unconscious, free enjoyment of a real and perfect horsewoman. " Yaulter looks ready for a magnificent run, Mr. Monkton," she said, feeling anxious to hit upon a subject of conversation which should attract him to loiter with her* " Do you think we," Rose added, patting the long sleek neck of her own animal, " stand as good a chance of being in at the death as you do V 9 "Not quite, Miss Levey; your hand is too strong upon the curb. Wait until you need it." 44 Thank you/' said Rose, colouring vividly. "I am veiy glad of advice from you — always. Bernard takes no notice of his sisters when Miss Egerton is present, and Violet always keeps away from me with Captain Gresford. I — I find myself generally very solitary." " I daresay," rejoined Scot, turning his honest glance upon her as they rode slowly from the group. "I think it quite possible to feel solitary, even in such a scene as this." THE squire's legacy. 187 " But I don't intend to be left behind to-day, ,r added Rose, with a lively change of tone* " I expect to be very near you, Mr. Monkton ; so pray don't flatter yourself that you will soon get rid of me." " Be content with the snaffle. Miss Levey/' said Scot, looking coolly and critically from the bit up to her restless fingers. " If you wish to spencl this day without a fall, have a little re- spect for the power of the curb." They had reached the phaeton by this time, and helped to swell the group of horsemen who had found something to say to Colonel Egerton or his daughter. " Miss Egerton, do you not think that your father would like to follow to-day ?" So Bernard Levey was whispering, persua- sively, when Scot came up. " What V 9 asked Doris, absently, as she offer- ed Scot her hand, and smiled up into his eyes. But Mr,. Levey, for some reason, did not re- peat his question until he was the only one left of the group round the phaeton. Then he rather nervously remarked that it was unusual enough to be really painful to him, to see the hunting- field without Colonel Egerton. And, when that : ** THE quire's legacy: r '-a*»r^itir.n fUj] nnsQcceflAxilv; he proceeded to ~!.e qie«tion direct, ** 'Jolcnel Zeerton. will van aaeeOT mv- mcmt? I shall be verv rfad ra keen to the road '-fr-d^v.'* The idea evidently- amnaed Colonel Egertom : >,n+. beyond the natnral and invo hiniar y iangb* he considered no reniv ni 1 1 mi i. " If jon will." resinned Mr. Levey, who was not gifted with the power of aiway* seeing- hia own position in it* trae iight, and to whom the comic side of a question -derail v la^rm den««fc shadow. " I will drive Hiss Ejzerton in. vour place; and I will take great case- of her, Colonel." u I do not donbt it," rejoined the offices; in hia pleasant, gentle way, though, he waa quite grave again now. u Bnt I have not changwdiny mind frince I left home with the intention of driving ; nor, I hope, has Doris, who wished nae to drive her." There waa nothing tangible in thia speech, to hurt ifr. Levey** aeltpride, and he waa not one to be wounded by an intangible *W he held big portion still, and ponied ad compliment*, and a few plaintive sigha* THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 189 into Doris's ear ; but that small feature of hero remained just as cold and white throughout j while the wind whistled past, and carried Ber- nard's speeches with it, and the blush which had just for one minute that morning deepened the fresh pink tint in her cheeks, was powerless to return under his wildest and most despairing experiment. Enjoying to the full the zest of the sport and the beauty of the morning, Doris was pleased, and bright, and excited ; but al- most anyone save Bernard, would have seen, at a glance, that this utterly natural indifference to his most pointed flattery barely hid real weariness of it. " If Mr. Levey would go quite away, papa," she whispered once, when they could speak unheard, " I should think this day perfection." "There's no such thing as perfection, my dear," observed Colonel Egerton, placidly, and so drove on to covert, in the hope that Bernard would presently dart across country. But the hope was fallacious. The day went on just as it had begun ; for, though Mr. Levey made a pretence now and then of joining the hunt, it was but a pretence ; and when he had crossed a field or fence, and sufficiently dis- 190 THE squire's legacy. played his proportions, his dress, and his hunter, he would canter back with an expression of extreme content, and resume his progress beside the phaeton, and his string of unmistakable compliments, and rather flaccid general remarks. At last the day — as a hunting day — was over. Colonel Egerton had drawn up his greys, and was joining in the general exultation, which men of sense and energy occasionally display in the acquisition of a torn appendage of that little animal who has made a good fight for it, but has succumbed to circumstances at last, in a manner not greatly to be wondered at while the odds are fifty to one. The agile little fellow had kept them in pur- suit for half a dozen hours, but had had to give up its panting life at last, and could offer no resistance now to that post-mortem indignity, the coming of which had probably cast a shadow before, and all day long hastened the flying footsteps. Scot — dismounted, with rivers of mud mean- dering down his riding-boots, and brown de- posits on his cords — had ignored his lawfully- earned privilege of presenting the brush, and had turned aside, to leave Vaulter — a tried and THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 191 experienced hunter already — in the charge of Major Porter's groom, when he was aware that Miss Levey had ridden on across a ploughed field, and had evidently aggravated her horse by doing so. Scot understood no more than this. He had noticed that she had been restless and ex- citable all day, using the curb rashly, though she had sought his advice, and begged him to take her in charge ; but he had not noticed her jealous mortification when the old master of the hounds, taking Scot's place, had, in his courteous old-world fashion, presented the brush to Doris Egerton as the youngest lady in the field. Scot's perceptions were quick and keen in everything, except that he rarely suspected any evil feeling could have prompted an other- wise accountable action, and he had started to help Rose, almost as soon as he caught sight of her horse dancing between the uneven ridges, tossing his head proudly against the reins, and tearing the little hillocks of loose soil ; rearing, plunging, curveting, and, in various graceful but uncomfortable ways, taking his revenge for a course of unmitigated curb. Coolly and distinctly, as Scot approached 192 THE squire's legacy. her, he told her how to use her bridle hand ; but, to his great surprise, a cry was his only an- swer. Whether Rose had worked herself into a real state of alarm, or whether this was the last touch of the feigned timidity in which she had indulged all day, Scot never doubted. To him she seemed to have lost the power of quieting her horse, and so he would do it for her. But he was in no way prepared for her ecstatic delight at seeing him, or her prompt and pathetic ap- peal to him to " take her down." He had only just reached her side, and was in the act of signing to her not to leave the saddle, when she dropped her bridle, rose from the pommel, and, after only a word of warning, made a spring towards the ground. He caught her readily, though she was tall and of no trifling weight; but linked to the pleasant consciousness of having done so, was the rather more acute consciousness of having brought about a result beyond what he could have an- ticipated, even if he had paused to consider the consequences of this random descent of a sub- stantial young lady of five feet six. " Oh, Mr. Monkton, what is it V cried Rose, as Scot stood and held the horse, waiting for THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 193 Miss Levey's groom, who was making his way cautiously towards them over the upturned soil. " You are so pale. Oh, what is it ?" u Will you mount again, Miss Levey, or walk through this field?" inquired Soot, his voice almost stern in the intense strain he put upon himself to master this new pain. " Oh, I must walk ! I am afraid of mounting. Please put your arm in mine, Mr. Monkton. I am sure I have hurt you. What shall I do ?" Sometimes afterwards Scot would tell, even with a laugh, what that walk across the ploughed field cost him, while Miss Levey — fancying he was doing it easily — grew ashamed of having proffered help to one who was so strong and independent. But he never told of the sick faintness which came over him when he reached Colonel Egerton's carriage, and how it was that a few minutes afterwards he was in Doris's seat. How it was ! Could he ever have told why her few earnest words — more of ad- vice than entreaty — should have won his prompt obedience, while the varied exclamations around him, jarred so terribly on the pain he hid t " You'll be all right presently, Mr* Monkton," VOL. n. 194 THE squire's legacy. said Colonel Egerton ; " it is only a sprain, I expect." But he was keen to see that the pain was all bat unbearable jost now ; so he gathered np his reins, and nodded to the groom at the horses' heads. Scot's fingers gripped the side of the phaeton. They were cold and brown, and there was a long rent in the scarlet sleeve, won in some reckless plnnge through brake or brier; yet Doris, standing near, warm and bright and pretty in her snowy furs, fonnd her gaze resting there as if it were the page of a book, and she could read it. And when she raised her eyes, they were a little wistful, jnst as if the tale she read had been of suffering. "I like to walk," she said, in her bright, prompt way, in answer to a question— or an apology — she met on Scot's face ; " it is a pleasant change for me." Mr. Bernard Levey had by this time given his mare into the charge of bis sister's groom, appar- ently aware of what would be a pleasant change for him also. But at that moment Doris — without seeming to have seen anything of this— looked suddenly up at the groom's little seat behind THE squire's legacy . 1 95 the phaeton, and thought she might just as well drive. So all Bernard Levey's brilliant antici- pations of a Ute-h-Ute dissolved into one moment's effort at assistance, while Doris stepped lightly up into the little seat, and the groom turned away to walk home alone. " At any time, Mr. Monkton," observed Bernard Levey, with a spasmodic effort of friendly patronage for the dismounted Squire, while Doris felt his words sting her as they fell ; " at any time" — repeating the words im- pressively, with a consciousness of her listening — " I shall be happy to lend you a mount. I had no idea Vaulter was sold, or I would have offered to-day. Indeed I should be quite proud to mount the finest rider in the field." "But, Mr. Levey," laughed Doris, quickly answering this tactless speech, " I believe papa always thinks himself the finest rider in the field — indeed I know he does ; though my own opinion is, after all, that he never feels so thoroughly at home on horseback as Mr. Monkton does. Major Porter, when do you think we are all going to start ? " It was no wonder she was anxious to drive away from the chatty and excited group ; but o2 196 THE squire's legacy. Major Porter, like the rest of Scot's Mends, had many a last word to say to him, and they were glad to stop to say it, when they won such pleasant, easy answers ; for few of them under- stood the healthy bravery which made all suffer- ing for Scot his own suffering only. Under the pretence of chatting with Doris,. Rose Levey kept her horse for a time beside the phaeton ; but presently she was obliged to turn aside, to follow her sister and Captain Gresford. She bade good-bye to Mr. Monkton with marked effusion, and then rode slowly, that she might watch the carriage on its way, her lips rather tight, and the expression in her eyes not very good to see. Colonel Egerton's phaeton stopped before the side door at the Black Birches, where Liath stood looking out, with an evident attempt to appear as if he were not. Scot left his seat just as he might have done on any other day, but, as he stood, he laid his hand heavily on Liath's shoulder. " Thank you, Colonel Egerton," he said, answering only thus the unfeigned sympathy of both father and daughter. "The only ill consequence to me will be a day's delay in my > n i j iii , l nm i w ' f • *rj> - _ ? _ ? , -f j^CTf oagg^ gi THE squire's legacy. 197 - projected run up to town. But a day will make no serious difficulty." " A day !" exclaimed Miss Michal, afterwards, when she had, as she tearfully expressed it, " dived to the bottom of the mischief." " What prospect is there of your being able to travel in a day ?" "Every prospect, Aunt Michal, because I must do it." "Must is nonsense," she muttered, wonder- ing greatly at the odd circumstance of Scot's having sprained his foot without falling. " Tou always pretend your elephants are only flies, till — till " — She sobbed the remainder of her com- plaint in notes of minor discord — " the end of it will be — they'll — they'll crush you before — you can be prepared." "Impossible, Aunt Michal," said the young man, cheerily. " You and I are adepts now in being always prepared for the worst ; notwith- standing which, of course, we always take care to expect the best, don't we ? As you say, it's a mere question of flies and elephants, after all " 198 CHAPTER XIL IN spite of Scot's assertion that he must go to town next day, the morning found him un- able even to walk downstairs. He spoke little of his disappointment, yet Miss Michal, for the first time in her life, could see that he was chafing sorely against the leading-strings of fate. Miss Levey drove over early in the day, with anxious inquiries, and Colonel Egerton spent a few pleasant hours with him later on; On the second morning, he walked, with a little limping and a good deal of pain, to the garden gate, and, finding himself able to accomplish that, had no further hesitation in fixing his journey to town for the next day. Miss Michal struggled her best against this decision, but had to yield at last, consoling her- self with the thought that it would take her this whole day to " think about " Scot's pack- THE squire's legacy. 199 ing, and of what he should take for refreshment on the road. " But I shall stay only one day, or at most two," he said, smiling at this idea. Yet when he saw that her mind, robbed of this employment, fell back with increased weight on an accumulated mass of woes of which this sprain was the crowning disaster, he was glad quietly to adopt her views as to the exigency of preparation, and the unutterable discomfort of not having one's " things " com- pressed in a travelling bag for as long a period as possible. Therefore it was that Miss Michal was exploring in Scot's premises that morning, when she looked from the window to see him leaning at the garden-gate, giving an audience to Liath; and therefore it was that she gave vent to a little ejaculation of keen annoyance, when, from the next window, she caught sight of Miss Levey's low phaeton, and Miss Levey's elegant and lengthy figure sitting alone in it. But Miss Michal was spared the interruption of a call upon herself, and continued her arduous task undisturbed* The phaeton had stopped for good and all at the gate, and there Rose 200 THE squire's legacy. Levey paid her call, refusing Liath's proposal to hold her ponies, and gladly seeing that worthy leave the scene. " I am so pleased to find you here, Mr. Monk- ton !" she said, setting aside whip and reins to give Scot her hand, and turning in her seat to face him, having no anxiety as to any antici- pated wantonness in her phlegmatic ponies. " Of course I naturally should be more glad than anybody else, because I was the miserable cause of your accident. I had scarcely hoped to be so fortunate as to see you here. I so seldom" — with a gentle sigh — "have any of my wishes realised." "I wonder you don't leave off wishing, then, Miss Levey," said Scot, in that cool but courte- ous way of his, which Rose always found it hardest to meet, "Shall I tell you my present wish?" she asked, with the broad, insinuating smile which was peculiar to the family, and certainly fitted well the other family peculiarity of startlingly white teeth. " If you please." " That I might drive you, if you wish to go anywhere. Here am I with nothing to do, and « I THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 201 the wretched consciousness of haying rendered you incapable of doing what I know you must wish. Do oblige me, Mr. Monkton. I would like to drive round your farm excessively. Do make me useful." " It is not fair to monopolise a twofold gift," returned Scot, gravely. " Are you not content to be ornamental ?" " Indeed no," returned Rose, with naivetf. " Would you be content to be of no service to those you — you liked?" "How could I like them if I had to serve them ?" "Oh! Mr. Monkton, of course you would. You are the very one to put yourself out for anyone you liked, and you ought to be gener- ous, and let others do it for you. Let me drive you into Minton; you said your chief dis- appointment was the delay of some journey into the town." . " Not into Minton," laughed Scot. " I want- ed to be in London to-day." " Oh ! On business t" Miss Levey uttered the question slowly and thoughtfully, while a pleasant fancy was fram- ing itself in her mind. Of course Mr. Monkton 202 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. was going to retake his estate. There would be preliminary matters to settle with his solicit- ors, and that was the motive for his journey to London now. Had not everyone said lately that things were going so thoroughly against him that he could not long hold out, and would soon give up his eccentric freak, and own himself glad to return to Kingswood? What else should make him anxious to be in town, when he had never cared to go for nearly a year ? Yes, that was it, of course. A satisfactory thought this was, and it brightened her glance considerably, and made her heart leap with a vague, delicious possibili- ty. But, good as the thought was, she felt comfortably assured of allowing no evidence of this to peep out in her dreamy remark. "I suppose other people are sometimes as lonely as I am. My friends are always leaving me, and even at home I am most solitary." " How unpleasant I" remarked Scot, sturdily. " Can you not prevent it !" " How ?" inquired Rose, with simplicity. " Cannot you go out with your brother and sister, when they go?" " It is not that," she said, never doubting that the young man meant only exactly what he said, THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY; 203 and had really misunderstood her—" though pre- sently I suppose I must be separated from them in reality* I shall soon lose Violet." "Oh! I see," said Scot, with a look of laughing surprise in his eyes. " Gresford has succeeded, has he ?" Rose nodded sadly. It was not so hard to do that as falsely to assert that Captain Gresford had proposed to her sister. " And Bernard, too," she added, plaintively ; — " he is anxious to marry. Just picture my loneliness then, Mr. Monkton !" " Probably you will soon follow their example." "It will not be so easy to me," remarked Miss Levey, looking absently beyond Sc6t's face. "I am not satisfied with what would satisfy either of them ; I want to make my life of use, and besides that, I want to make my fortune of use." " An easy task too." "I don't find it so," was the prompt avowal ; " I only wish I could. I wish I had an opportunity of employing it, for it is really a burden to me. Can you not understand this feeling ?" " Not having an unusually large fortune at 204 THE squire's legacy. my own disposal/' said Scot, with great com- posure, " I cannot say I do." "But, oh! Mr. Monkton, can you not help me ?" exclaimed Rose, gazing, with questioning ecstasy, into his amused eyes. " Do help me, if you can, and use it for me — will you? You know so well how to use money !" " You mean that I may perform a commission for you in town, Miss Levey V asked Scot, quite easily ; though even she could see that his lips were stern in their proud compression. " I — no, I would not hinder you," she said, regaining the composure which Scot's reply had disturbed. "I would not interfere with your gaiety, now that you go to town so seldom." "It will interfere with no gaiety, I can assure you. But perhaps you are going your- selves V 9 " No, indeed, we are not," was the rejoinder, quick enough to be pettish. " Bernard is bent now on staying here. He is quite absurd about Miss Egerton; and yet it is plain to see she does not care an atom for him. She is only amusing herself with him." " Is she ? I should hardly have thought that possible." THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 205 " No, I am sure you would not," cried Rose, delighted in her mistaken idea that he agreed with her at last ; " and I tell Bernard that no one hut a heartless girl would do it. But he is literally infatuated, and thinks that she cannot be really engaged to Mr. Bradford." " That thought must make your brother very happy." " Oh, of course Bernard is happy," she said, wondering a little at the tone of her companion; " but I hope he will think better of asking Miss Egerton to break her first engagement ; it would be so unfair — I cannot bear the thought of it." " I would not make myself anxious about it, Miss Levey, if I were you," said Scot, with a great deal of quiet drollery in his face. "I daresay such a catastrophe will be, by some means, prevented." " But then Bernard is so rich, you see," re- sumed Miss Levey, her nature too inherently mean to imagine this speech meant more than her own ; " it would be such a temptation. For Mr. Bradford is only a lawyer after all, and of course he cannot give her such a home as Osborne House." 206 THE squire's legacy. " But," said Scot, dryly, the light of laughter quickly following the look of haughtiness upon his face, " * Tve read in many a novel That, unless they've souls that grovel, Folk prefer, in fact, a hovel To your dreary marble halls.' n " Oh, Mr. Monkton," cried Hose, " you do give me such strange ideas sometimes !" il But it was you who gave me that idea," he answered, gathering up her reins, but standing courteously beside her. " It was you who said that riches were a burden. I never thought SO. . " Yes, but I didn't ptit it in a comical light, as you did," fretted Rose, with a swift rush of colour to her face. " No ; it was certainly I who put it in a comical light. I think it a capital light through which to view — riches." " What did he mean by that last sentence ?" mused Rose, practically, as she drove away in solitary state. " He seemed to think something was very comical — and I don't think he could have meant riches. Why should he mean riches, when he is so short of them, and must miss THE squire's legacy. 207 them tremendously? I wish I could have put the meaning a little more plainly ; but perhaps now he will think it over, and — and," concluded Rose, with a flash of colour in her face, though she was driving alone through Eingswood park, and the only eye upon her was one round orb of a veteran robin, who expanded his little peach breast in vain — " and will see how I love him." The robin blinked peacefully upon his bare twig again, for the long dark object which had disturbed his own especial solitude had passed and left him in safety. Perhaps he knew as much about " the loveli- ness of loving well" as Rose did; but, if so, he had his own little thoughts all to himself up there, and no voice could whisper to Rose that best of all she loved herself. 208 CHAPTER XHI. a A ND he is really able to go to London to- A morrow morning, is he, papa t" Colonel Egerton and his daughter were strolling in the garden as the evening shadows fell, and this was not by any means the first time Doris had questioned her father concern- ing that visit which, early in the day, he had paid at the Black Birches. " Yes, dear, so he says. He's all right, I think, now, except for a little lameness ; and he seems excessively anxious about this London business, whatever it may be. But I didn't stay long, as I saw Liath wanted him. Ah, look there !" The girl's eyes went first up to her fathers, and then followed them, to see a young man hurrying towards her among the dusky shadows of the park. THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 209 " Kenneth !" she cried. And then they went to meet him ; and when her eyes rested on his face, and both her hands lay in his, she saw that his life's ambition was within reach at last, and that he had come to tell her so. How he told her, she never quite remem- bered. But she knew it all at the time, and her bright tenderness and pleasant enthusiasm were most sweet to him in his intense, suppress- ed excitement. His drama had been accepted for the stage. That was the key-note of the girl's bright song and laughter. All the particulars could follow presently, when she was more accustomed to the fervent gratitude and joy which stirred Kenneth's voice, and made it almost strange to Her. It was only through Colonel Egerton's inter- vention that any particulars were learned; for, when Doris attempted to win them, she and Kenneth invariably lost themselves in a laby- rinth of amazement, conjecture, and sympathy. "You will be the most famous dramatic poet in the world, Ken." That was perhaps the most moderate of her VOL. II. F 210 THE squire's legacy. prophecies, and to it she clung with all her gentle, daring heartiness. - " If your drama succeeds, Kenneth, you are to be a famous man, I suppose ; but it is just as likely to fail, eh V 9 put in Colonel Egerton, per- haps thinking a matter-of-fact view of the sub- ject might be wholesome just then. "Now shall we go in V 9 " I wanted to ask you, Doris," he said, look- ing anxiously to see whether his request sur- prised her,' "if you would come with me to the Black Birches. I want to tell Mr. Monkton of my good fortune — he has always been so kind about my writing — but of course I cannot go without you, darling." Colonel Egerton had left them to themselves now, and so Doris turned with Kenneth, though when he first uttered his request she had paused for a moment deep in thought. They sauntered down the Larch Walk, talking still on this one engrossing theme, Doris tender in her gladness, while Kenneth tried hard to repress his excite- ment — an excitement which had no self-consci- ousness, but was the result of something even beyond his passionate delight in his art. " Doris," he whispered, as they crossed the THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 211 bridge in the gathering darkness, "how astonished anyone would be who saw my joy, and did not understand its hidden source ! Oh ! my darling, no one can ever know what it is to me to feel that, within a few months now, I may win the success which will give me my wife !" "Ken, there's a man under the arch of the bridge. I saw him disappear, and he has never passed through. Hurry." He laughed at her fear, but hastened when she bade him, and in a few minutes they had reached the farm. The lamp was burning when they entered the sitting-room, and Miss Michal sat sewing in its light. They had been there quite ten minutes, before Scot came in to hear Kenneth's news. Doris saw that it was still painful to him to walk or stand, but his glad, heartfelt congratulations had no taint in them of his own suffering or trouble. " But you have still the hardest ordeal of all to pass, Bradford," he said, presently, while they sat chatting round the fire in the lamp- light, " your ' Pensive Public' " "And, if they 'look sad' like the pensive p2 212 THE squire's legacy* public in the poem, won't it be terrible, Mr* Monkton '?" laughed Doris. "It is not to be for a moment imagined possible," said Scot, meeting her eyes warmly and kindly; "his first night will crown the ambition of his life — I trust so with all my heart," he added, quietly. Her eyes fell in the midst of her frank, glad gaze, and the blush rose vividly even to her brow ; yet she had guessed, before to-night, that he knew of Kenneth's twofold hope, and of her promise to him. "No play," put in Miss Michal, cheerfully, " ever succeeds at its first performance, if it is worth hearing. Scot, just ring the bell, will you ? That's the third time I have heard that long knocking on the front door." But, when the knocking was repeated a fourth time, Miss Michal clasped her hands in her lap, and appealed to Scot with a despairing " What can it be?" " I will see," he said, rising. " I am glad of any opportunity of exercising my foot before to- morrow. ' But Miss Michal was before him. "Elizabeth," she said, sternly, as she met THE squire's legacy. 218 her maid standing timidly in the hall, " how could you leave that door unanswered ?" " Liath told me to, ma'am." "Why?" " I don't know, ma'am, really." " Liath was laughing at you, child," rebuked Miss Michal, severely. "Open the door at once." Miss Michal stood in the inner doorway to witness her orders obeyed ; but, when she saw a man step into the hall, turn and lock the door, and hang up his hat, she started back into the sitting-room with a cry. " Hush !" said Scot, laying his hand lightly on her shoulder, "I see how it is. We ought to have expected this, Aunt Michal, and been prepared. Yet I had fancied we were prepared for the worst." Doris had risen, in a pained confusion of ideas, only really conscious of the fact that she and Kenneth ought not to be there. The mau had followed Miss Michal into the sitting-room, and now stood smiling in the lamplight, his large face hot and soiled, and his hands in his trousers pockets. " You kept me a good while waiting at that 214 THE squire's legacy. door/' he said, " but I wasn't surprised. Yout dwarfish little herd has had his eye on me and the doors all the evening. But I got him safely out of the way, through a false alarm." Nothing in Scot's face, beyond a slight pale- ness, told of the tide of keen and bitter humili- ation which swept over him. He was half sitting on the arm of his chair, thoroughly brave in the resolute suppression of all pain — even with a quiet dignity of his own, in this moment which held such keen degradation for a proud, refined spirit. "You can go from this room," he said, with one slow glance at the man. " There is plenty of space for you in the house, without your in- truding here." " I don't want to intrude," was the answer, uttered with a grin. " I'm ready for my supper, too, and I see no sign of any here." Suddenly, at the words or glance, Scot's passion rose like a storm-tossed wave ; but his glance, fierce and hot now, was intercepted by a young, earnest face, and the fingers of his right hand, in their tightening strain, were held between two small, soft palms. It was all oveif in one minute, and then Doris — to excuse the r THE squire's legacy. 215 involuntary action, for which Kenneth, look- ing on, had thanked her in his heart — said simply, " Good-bye, Mr. Monkton." She longed to add an entreaty that he and Miss Windish would go back with them, but her rare and delicate tact kept back the words. The man in possession had thought it wise to leav.e the room by that time ; and Miss Michal was sighing with relief. Scot had risen, and, though Doris had dropped her left hand, her right was still in his. " Good-bye. Shall you really go to London to-morrow, Mr. Monkton ?" "If possible; my reason for going is more potent now than it was before." "Then papa says, as he has to meet that train, will you please go with him ? He will bring the phaeton round in good time. Papa does so dislike a solitary drive into Minton, and there is generally such a delay if he takes the train from here." Scot thanked her quietly, as much for what she left unsaid as for what she said, and then both he and Miss Michal took them to the garden gate. 216 the squire's legacy. " You would scarcely think/' said Kenneth, as they two walked out of hearing, in the dark- ness, " that Mr. Monkton could be so cool and pleasant fire minutes after that burst of passion which he could scarcely stay, and would not have stayed, I think, but for something in your face when you said good-bye." "Miss Michal," said Doris, harrying to the words, with a catch in her breath, " did not shed a single tear." After that, it happened that an unusual silence fell upon these two, who, when they crossed this bridge an hour before, had been so merry and exultant. The Winter evening was calm and pleasant, the wind so gentle that it only stirred the tree- tops far above them, and one by one the lustrous starry eyes opened beyond. They had reached the end of the Larch Walk before either of them broke the silence; and then Doris linked her hands on Kenneth's arm, and raised her face to his, in the dim, tender starlight. " Kenneth, you came to me in such gladness and delight, and now you are so sad. Oh, 1 wish you had not come to-night." " Why, my darling!" THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 217 " Because this shadow has fallen so drearily across your — our festivity." " My dear," said Kenneth, with that simple manly thoughtfulness which is so rare in the young and enthusiastic, " mine was not a real festival, only the festival of hope ; and I'm sure you are not one to cherish the narrow thought that life is all sunshine for one and shadow for another. The hope I brought with me — and over which you helped me to rejoice, dear — is only to bring me a trial, and that may end in darkness." "Kenneth— how?" Doris hardly knew the words were uttered, eo involuntarily had they passed her twitching lips. "If my first trial before the public fails, Doris," he answered, steadily, but very quietly, "I shall never ask you for the fulfilment of that promise you gave me on the last day we spent together at Richmond." " Oh, you will, Kenneth !" " Never. It is a vow I registered, side by side with that other vow to work unwearyingly for that happy end." " And you will never break the vow ?" 218 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. " Never ; for I love you far too dearly to link your fate with mine — if mine is to be a hard one." "Then, Kenneth," the girl answered, very softly, " if your play is not successful on its first night, 1 shall remind you of your promise, instead of waiting until you remind me, and — and I shall ask you for your love. Shall you refuse me ?" " Oh, Doris," he cried, and stood and held her there beside him in the starshine, " my own be- loved, how could I answer you as I ought? Could 1 deal my own death-blow ?" " But you will succeed." "Yes, I shall succeed — I will succeed," he said, his words shaken in this delicious proof of the steadfastness of the love he prized; "but what is it, Doris darling? Tour voice has tears in it." " Tears !" she echoed, with a faint, unmirthful smile upon her lips, though her eyes were filled with a wistful tenderness* " No tears, Kenneth. We have made each other a solemn promise, out here alone in the silence and the starlight* When you come to me for my promise, I shall be ready ; and, if you do not, I — I shall come to THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 21& you. It is a lifelong and religious promise. You understand, Kenneth V But his answer — so slow and broken in its gratitude — was for her ear alone. 220 CHAPTER XIV. EUSTON." "What class?" For a moment Scot paused, in a calculating uncertainty which was utterly new to him. It was because the question wis strange to him that so many thoughts crowded themselves into that brief pause before the clerk had lower- ed his head to see for whose answer be waited. Then, knowing Mr. Monkton, he apologised, and drew a first-class ticket from its recess. "Third." Mr. Monkton's cool reply stopped him just as the noisy stamp came down. Scot's mind had made itself up quickly and easily in that moment. On his way to borrow money, what right had he to spend more than was absolutely necessary f So it framed itself, and, thinking nothing of the man's surprise or possible con- THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY* 221 tempt, Scot gave bis green ticket to be clipped, and walked on down tbe platform; a little amused by the sight of the porters saluting a third-class passenger so respectfully; showing his amusement a little as, in his pleasant easy courtesy, he returned their greeting. Quizzically he looked round the compartment when he had taken his seat; but a pleasant laughter shone in his eyes when he saw that the only other occupant was a little boy of about six, his small chin propped upon a knotted comforter, and his wide, timid eyes struggling very hard to be resolute. A little fellow with an air of importance in his attitude which con- tradicted the shrinking of the tiny figure, and the wide, scrutinising glance up into Scot's eyes ; a curious little figure indeed, bundled up in two shabby coats, with a thin cord round his neck, on which was strung his half ticket, and an address written large and clearly on an envelope; while he grasped a little worn leathern bag, which yet looked large and heavy in such a feeble hold. But presently there broke a slow smile into the anxious babyish eyes, for they had met Scot's, which were so warm and kind. Mr. Monkton, sitting opposite 222 THE squire's legacy. the child, bent towards him to read the label aloud. " You are going almost as far as I am," he said, just in the soft, genial tones that children love. "What a little fellow for such a long journey ! Does your father live there ?" "Oh, no!" The words were almost a sob, and yet uttered with such an effort at bravery — an effort pitifully comic. " I'm glad I got into this carriage," observed Scot, with gravity ; " I shall like to have your little company. Do you often travel ?" " I shan't travel again, thenk you, I think," returned the child, with old-fashioned polite- ness, as he looked dreamily out through the window. * l I'm going to mother." " Oh !" Scot drew a long and rather puzzled breath. " And is your mother there f " pointing to the label on the child's muffled chest. " Yes ; mother sings, and . she's always away — always. Mother doesn't like staying at home. She says it's dull at home, 'cause " — screwing up the small, cold lips expressively — " we're poor, father'n me." " Yet you are going to your mother now," questioned Scot, " and leaving father ?" ? THE squire's legacy. 223 " Father says he has a reason," the boy an- swered, slowly, as if he himself grew puzzled over this, though he could never doubt the reason's being potent. " He says it's better. He's taught me to do things, and he says I shall be useful, so he wrote to tell mother I should go." " And how will your father get on without you !" "He won't get on well without me," the child answered, shaking his head with an unut- terable sadness which seemed born of experi- ence, " and I begged not to go. But he said it was better, and he wouldn't let me cry, and that the fields would be so pretty in the train." "And which," inquired Scot, though fully alive to the impropriety of his question, "do you like best — father or mother ?" The red mounted as slowly into the little white face as if it had known the experience of manhood, and Scot knew that the answer did not come straight from that loving, beating heart. "I love them both as well as each other; oughtn't I to !" The chat went on after that pretty fluently, 224 THE squire's legacy. Scot conducting his part in a spirit of rather respectful though pleasant inquiry, and the child his with grave and wondering politeness. At the first important station in which they stopped, Scot went into the refreshment-room to look for something which the boy might like ; and on his return to the platform great was his surprise to see the little fellow standing alone, grasping his bag, and looking from his comforter trustfully upon the passing figures, waiting, in utter confidence among these strangers, to be guided and helped. "My child," said Scot, taking the bag and one cold hand, "you haven't done with the train yet." "Haven't I? Oh, I thought this might be where I had to stop," the boy answered, with caution. "Father said I must be careful, 'cause I couldn't go beyond my ticket." " Now," he added, as he took his seat again, propping his bag carefully beside him, and opening it because he saw the parcel in his companion's hands, " there's dinner at the top ; is it time to eat it?" Looking down upon the small, thin face, Scot answered that no time could be half so good. THE squire's legacy. 225 " I know father laid it all at the top," the child said, deftly unfastening the string which served instead of a lock ; " he put lots of paper, les' it should spoil my best clo'es." " Are your best clothes in there !" " Yes, all," the child answered, with laudable though quiet pride ; « and they're quite new— that's why I came to-day. I was goin' on We'nesday, but when Mr. Evans brought my clo'es he wouldn't leave them, 'cause father hadn't change. He took them back, and father's been all the week getting change ; he says it's scarce lately. And I've got two clean shirts," the child added, diving into his bag in a daft and cautious manner which opened Scot's eyes a little to his home life ; " father put the buttons on last night, and I threaded his needle, and I've got three new pocket-han'kerchiefs that were father's Christmas-box. I gave him one ; he said he liked it better than sweets. I think useful things are best ; don't you?" " Far best," returned Scot, promptly answer- ing the unchildlike piece of wisdom. " It's a nice dinner," remarked the little one gravely, as he spread his small assortment of provisions on the seat. vol. n. Q 226 THE squire's legacy. " Milk !" exclaimed Scot, in a perfect rapture, as he bent over the feast, keeping his eyes low. " Yes, milk/ 1 echoed the child, still with sub- dued and wistful gravity ; " father and me walk- ed four miles to get it yesterday, and weren't a bit tired. Father said he wished we'd go every day." When his little feast was spread, the child folded his hands, and reverently asked God's blessing upon it. Scot folded his hands too, and echoed the childish " Amen." "You drink first, please," the little fellow said, politely handing Scot a small mug addressed in gold letters "To Willy;" and Scot, imbibing long, if not deeply, returned the cup with the natural supposition that the child's name was Willy. "Yes — Willy Knight; and father's Mr. Knight, but mother's Mamselle Koni, when she's singing. I s'pose you've heard mother sing ?" Scot confessed with reluctance that he had not done so yet, and the child shook his head in sympathy. " Now there's a bun each, please," said Willy, handing the paper to Scot, who was feasting THE squire's legacy. 227 with every appearance of enjoyment. "Father's just having his dinner now, I dare say. I hope he's got it nice." " Who generally gets it ?" "I do, when it's br'en cheese. On week days one of us has to be in the shop, though father says it doesn't much matter, 'cause no body comes in. While I'm away, he's going to get rich, and then he'll come to fetch me." "And you will write long letters to him while you are away?" asked Scot, gently. " I should like to," the little fellow answered, with a great tenderness in his quiet voice ; " but he told me not." "And has father no relations?" inquired Scot, as now he took his turn, and fed his little entertainer with cakes of marvellous manu- facture. "Mother has," Willy answered, with an unconscious sadness, " and they live quite close to us nearly ; but I never go there, nor father doesn't, and they never smile at us. There are two boys as little as me, but they go to school — oh 1 1 should like to go to school I — and" — here the small lips tightened with a thoughtful, puzzled expression out of place in Q2 230 CHAPTER XV. THERE is very little in the appearance of Duke Street particularly to awe, or even unduly to impress, the chance and unfamiliar visitor ; but the town habituS knows its value, and when a professional gentleman is fortunate enough to possess handsomely-furnished rooms on the first floor of one of its most imposing houses, he may be excused for being very great- ly impressed indeed. Who should know so well their value as he who is constantly remind- ed of it by the figures in his rent receipts? And who can more fully appreciate their posi- tion than he who has experienced the advan- tage of being established within that exclusive quadrangle formed by Piccadilly and Pall Mall on the north and south, and Regent and St. James's Streets on the east and west ¥ True it is not a mighty area, but great re- THE squire's legacy. 231 suits rarely emerge from unlimited space ; and could all the earth's surface show a spot better suited for radial purposes ? Could any address, emblazoned on fine vellum paper, more surely carry to the dimmest corner of the kingdom a satisfactory testimonial as to the open dealing and select position of the gentleman whose name so candidly accompanied this vermilion address ?" The name was a simple name, and the gentle- man who appropriated it — and to whom it had become familiar after a brisk course of uninter- rupted signature — was a gentleman of simple appearance. So almost rustic, indeed, were his tastes and manners that it would have required a very unusually keen perception to detect any less familiarity with the rural districts to which many of his rather unvaried letters were sent, than with the limited area from which they radiated. There was evidence of wide and unprejudiced ideas even in the furnishing of his handsome room. The fox-hunting squire, battling, with strong limbs and feeble heart, against a "tem- porary embarrassment/' could find distraction and amusement in the valuable and spirited 232 THE squire's legacy. paintings of the field. The jaded house- holder, as he waited patiently to learn his error in having fancied that simple words had simple meanings, might easily grow bright with hope and confidence when his eyes ranged over the titles of the well-bound books about him, and he knew by experience the good and noble thoughts which lay within them. The young ensign, coming in with hand outstretched for the " tem- porary loan " which had been proffered him, and which he felt he had nothing to do but accept, must pause to listen to the soft, sweet tones of a musical box which tinkled from the dis- tance, though, while he listened, the gulf might open unawares before him. The widowed mo- ther, faltering in her gratitude as she acceded to the kind and welcome request to state, with- out fear, her " trifling financial entanglements," could not help her eyes resting upon the exqui- site statuette of the Babes in the Wood, and her thoughts wandering pleasantly to those little ones at home who had just such innocent faces, and from whose future, by this kindly aid to-day, she would lift the hovering cloud. And the grey-haired schoolmistress, who had just told, shrinkingly, how a sudden demand for an old THE squire's legacy. 233 debt had frightened her — but had not told whose dissolute hand had spent her earnings — could scarcely help reading that letter which lay open on the table near her, and, in a large, clear handwriting, offered heartfelt thanks . for most timely help,. But, of all objects which the room contained, not one could boast the combination of attrac- tions possessed by one of its living occupants this afternoon — the gentleman to whom be- longed the name repeated on the countless letters which, from this aristocratic centre, car- ried hope; and joy, and ruin to so many hun- dreds of homes. Upon his bald head the fire- light shed! a warm and genial glow, while his face beamed with an enticing candour. His dress was plain and easy, and there was no jewelry of any kind visible upon his upright, stal- wart person. He was leaning now, anxiously and kindly, towards his companion, his smooth face shining with interest and sympathy, and his long white hands outstretched upon the table, as if they offered already the prompt and gene- rous loan. But yet, if anyone could have laid bare the secrets of that prison-house (before whose door 234 THE squire's legacy. the smiling face was such an impenetrable guard), it would have been plain that Mr. Albert Mostyn did not experience his usually complacent assurance that he stood revealed to his visitor as a man of disinterested probity, to whom the world was merely a field for his general and unlimited beneficence — a battle- field on which he stood to raise the wounded, or a garden in which he wandered, watering and propping the drooping plants. No ; he had put both these pet similes before this visitor, and yet failed to bring into his brave, anxious face any look beyond one of surprise, which was more akin to contempt than confidence. It was a rather puzzling and unfamiliar face to Mr. Mostyn, telling of a proud, high-bred sense of rectitude, a quiet, steady fearlessness, and a true and dignified refinement ; so unfa- miliar a face, indeed, that it would have excited suspicion in the good man's breast, but for its wearing the look of thorough perplexity which was so remarkably familiar to him. " Tour letter reached me fortunately at a time when I was very anxious to procure a temporary loan of sixty pounds/' THE squire's legacy. 235 " Sixty pounds," repeated Mr, Albert Mostyn, in a tone of soothing reflection ; " only sixty pounds ?" % "Only sixty pounds," answered Mr. Monk- ton, quite aware that his companion looked with generous contempt upon this sum. " But I require it immediately." Mr. Mostyn, by a nod, expressed his readiness to smooth every thorn from the path of a weak brother. " Tou say in your letter," resumed Scot, look- ing down upon the paper he held, not with the usual brief glance of reference, but with an intent gaze of real study, " that, upon my note of hand, in a few hours, without inquiry fees or securities, without trouble, delay, or expense to me, you will advance me the money I need, at a moderate rate of interest. Tou have no ob- ject in investing your capital, you say, beyond the benefit of those of your fellow-creatures who " " Perfectly correct," put in Mr. Mostyn, suavely interrupting Scot's solemn epitome of the lithographed epistle; "you are perfectly correct, sir, in your recapitulation of the tempt* ations my offer contains." 236 THE squire's legacy. " And, beyondt his/' added Scot, still in that curious manner which was almost sad in its intense seriousness, " you promise my applica- tion shall be treated with the strictest confi- dence." Mr. Mostyn nodded again, with a slight motion of the open palms, suggestive of that meek humanity which keeps the charitable deeds of the right hand in profound secrecy from the (possibly usurious) left. " That being your generous offer," concluded Scot, as he quietly folded his letter, "I have come to borrow sixty pounds on those terms." " To that sum, or twice as much," observed Mr. Mostyn, with geniality, as he arranged the papers on his writing-table (his very touch guided by tenderness, and an unwillingness to hurt or discompose even inanimate objects), 4 ' you are invited to lay claim. I will give you a form which I should like you to fill in, just by way of laying matters simply before us both. It is always well to see things clearly in a matter of business, even though, as in this case, the word ' business ' is a mere sinecure. Those who come frankly and confidently to me in their embarrassments, as you come to-day, Mr. THE squire's legacy. 237 Monkton, come to a real friend. Business seem& almost a ridiculous epithet to apply to such a case, and yet" — a certain long and partially printed sheet of paper had been selected from the rest, and Mr. Mostyn's hands lay lovingly upon it — " and yet we may as well go through this trifling formula. If you will fill in the vacant spaces here, I will take the opportunity of speaking to my clerk, for I have promised a poor lady one hundred pounds by five o'clock, and I would not disappoint her for any tempt* ation. My clerk — quite naturally, as he is young, and his sympathies are not so acute as my own — does not feel the weight of my responsibilities, and so requires an occasional reminder. Allow me to pass you this pen. I was just making it when you came in, and it writes almost of its own accord. Thanks. I know you will excuse me for these few minutes, in the interest of a distressed fellow-creature." " Why should I fill in this form?" asked Scot, in his clear, straightforward tones, as he read. " Why should I tell you my age — position — prospects — income — friends — whether I am al- ready in debt — probable means of repaying this sixty pounds — and" — lifting his eyes again, 238 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. keen and true — "other absurd particulars?" "Absurd indeed," assented Mr. Mostyn, rais- ing his eyebrows so high that for the first time the placid and benevolent surface of his brow was wrinkled ; " but still it is a form to which I have grown accustomed, and my nature is obstinately conservative. I shall simply read over the contents, just to make myself feel more familiar with you, and then I shall destroy the paper. You see," with a pensive smile, " elderly men generally possess one crotchet, and mine is a delicacy in verbally discussing the private affairs of gentlemen who come to me in trust and confidence. I can here see at a glance all I need to see, and then" — with again the gracious motion of his open palms — " the paper may consume to ashes, with my heartiest good- will. Now kindly excuse me for one minute." There was time for the task to be completed half a dozen times, before Mr. Mostyn re-entered the room, to find his visitor standing at the window. He took up the completed form, which lay on the table undisfigured by any vacant spaces, and slipped it absently into a drawer, telling the while how his clerk had de- tained him to look into a matter — a very sad THE squire's legacy. 239 little matter he had undertaken — the extrication of a thoughtless young nobleman from the hands of a firm of city usurers. " And now," said Scot, rousing himself from his thoughtful gaze and attitude, " I shall be much obliged for the notes at once." " They will be ready for you, ray dear sir," returned Mr. Mostyn, smiling at the notion of there being a doubt upon that head, " in the course of a few hours ; but" — As the tone of lingering regret crept into his voice, he drew from his pocket a handsome gold hunter, un- derrated by any ornaments, and suspended only by the plain black ribbon which crossed his broad and philanthropic breast — " as I like to consider my business hours over at four, I must trouble you to give me a call to-morrow." "I had not intended to stay in town to- night," began Scot. " What a pity ! — what a pity !" murmured Mr. Mostyn, in a meditative tone. "And yet why not stay, Mr. Monkton? Why not" — with a brighter kindliness of tone — " take a few hours' enjoyment to-night? You must know so well where to seek it — here where every pleasant haunt has been familiar to you." It 240 THE squire's legacy. " Am I obliged to stay 1" asked Scot, proudly and quietly. " Could you not finish this affair for me ? You wrote that it could be done im- mediately. " Needing the loan immediately, my dear sir, said Mr. Mostyn, with deprecating gentleness, "you should have endeavoured to be here earlier in the day. I would have set everything aside to accommodate you." Scot answered by a slight, leisurely bow, and, having no further wish to delay his departure, left the handsome room, conscious that the only feeling which its varied adornments had excited in him was one of surprise, which had a keen uneasiness about it. Mr. Albert Mostyn's clerk had scarcely had time to air his newspapers the next morning, when Mr. Monkton entered the office and asked for Mr. Mostyn. The clerk, poised on one leg before the fire, dropped the ringed hand which held the supplement of the Telegraph, and re* gretfally informed Mr. Monkton that Mr. Mostyn had been summoned to Windsor to consult with a lady who was in great difficulty ; that he had left the office five minutes after his arrival there, and that his return, though of course so highly desirable, was at present uncertain. THE SQUIBB'S LEGACY. 241 When, for the fourth time thai day, Scot mounted the stairs in Duke Street, it was to hear only the same reply — Mr. Mostyn had not yet returned. "But," added Mr. Mosiynte clerk, rising from hi* chair with a certain involuntary feeling of respect, the memory of which amused him greatly afterwards, " I hare just received a tele- gram from him, in which he begs me to appoint an interview with you, as early as you can be here to-morrow morning. Several gentlemen are in there, waiting to make appointments," he added, waving his hand to the closed door of communication between the offices, with a kind- ly pity for them, " but I am to give you the preference." Scot fixed the earliest hour at which the offices would be open, and once more left the street which waa growing so uncomfortably familiar to him. Another evening ami night passed, and, just as the Westminster clock chimed the quarter- past ten next morning, Scot was once more usherad into the bland, benign presence of Mr Albert Mostym "Take a seat, pray, Mr. Monkton. I hope VOL. n. B 242 THE squire's legacy. my unavoidable absence from town yesterday did not " " Pardon my hastening you," interposed Scot, speaking courteously in his companion's smil- ing, interrogatory pause. " I daresay we both think our time valuable, and we can spare each other." " Then I have merely to trouble you to take up those notes, and sign that receipt," observed Mr. Mostyn, rather surprised to find that his visitor had no desire for extraneous conversa- tion. Scot glanced at the notes, and then read the paper given him to sign. When he raised his head again, and met the eyes of the gentleman whose only aim in life was to employ his capital in the interests of humanity, that philanthropist experienced a novel and rather uncomfortable sensation. There were few expressions of the human countenance to which his professional experience had not familiarised him, but any- thing like this clear, straightforward glance — in which the surprise and disappointment were nothing compared with the keen intelligence, and honest, frank contempt — had never before fallen across his sunny way. THE squire's legacy. 243 " I am to sigh a receipt for sixty pounds," said Scot, his quick, high-bred tones stirred with passion, which almost sounded like amusement, "in return for two notes, each for twenty pounds. To what kind of arithmetic am I to apply that test !" " If you read over the receipt you will under- stand," replied Mr. Mostyn, advancing softly towards his companion, with the intention of assisting his lethargic intelligence. " As you see, I have already been put to con- siderable expense in this matter, and, though I have no desire to make my benefits profitable, you cannot, of course," — with a glance of in- quiry absolutely winning in its simplicity — " expect me to supply forms and stamps, and all requisites for making the transaction prompt and private — prompt" he repeated, dropping his fingers lightly and carelessly upon the notes, "and private — and charge nothing, I myself being charged so heavily for everything. In- deed you would scarcely credit what I pay for advertising and postage alone, not to speak of these apartments, and my clerks' salaries ; be- sides a hundred other things necessary in this course which I so anxiously pursue. And, be- r2 244 THE squire's legacy. sides that," he added, not perhaps quite so easily as if Mr. Monkton had not been still waiting for him to finish his explanation, " there is, of course, the interest." "So, by means of an exorbitant interest* charged in advance " " That is a universal and perfectly legal cus- tom in the profession," interposed Mr. Mostyn, suavely. M You must have had very little ex- perience indeed to have been unprepared for that." " I have had very little experience before to- day," returned Scot ; " and I was unprepared to find that, by charging such interest, with vari- ous other ingenious methods, you would bring the sum of sixty pounds, Trhich I required-*nd for which you oblige me to pay interest — down to forty pounds, which is useless to me." "It is our method," Mr. Mostyn remarked, with a gentle sigh ; " it is the unvarying custom of all gentlemen who employ their capital as I do." "Do you ever deal with— men V 9 inquired Scot, in that resolute quietness of his which suppressed all passion. " Unfortunately," answered Mr. Mostyn, with THE squire's legacy. 245 rather an abortive attempt at pleasantly, " those who entreat my help are often .women. Poor things," he added, in a tone of dreamy com- miseration, "poor things ! You would hardly credit, I am sure, Mr. Monkton, from what dis- tress I have sometimes had the pleasure of res- cuing them — poor things I" " I can credit it," Scot said. " Nothing but the rery darkest despair could bring anyone to this pass." And as he spoke, he took into his nervous, steady hand the paper he had been asked to sign, and looked down upon it once again, his face stern and lined, " Who — unless driven mad with despair — Would borrow on these terms t" " I regret to say," observed Mr. Mostyn, with placidity, " that those who come to me are very often driven mad with despair, and are very grateful to win relief on suoh easy terms. If you will think over the risks I run, you will ac- knowledge that my demands are barely such as anyone might expect to pay for the convenience." " Yes, I will think them over," returned Scot, still very calm, " when I feel myself the idiot you take me for. In the meantime you had better perhaps think them over yourself." 246 THE squire's legacy. "Thought," observed Mr. Mostyn, running his long white, fingers between the buttons of his waistcoat, " has become second nature with me. It is rarely indeed that I am free from deep and anxious reflection." " For others, of course ?" "For others, of course," rejoined the elder man, apparently so lost in meditation that it was curious, a moment afterwards, to see the sharp suspicious glance he gave into his com- panion's face, when Scot threw from him the paper he had been holding. " Why do you not sign it, Mr. Monkton ?" " Because, fool as I am, I am not fool enough for that." " But it has been prepared for you," began Mr. Mostyn, the suavity forsaking him, "and my time has been employed for you." > " Put a value on your time, then," said Scot, with proud and passionate haste — " you know well how to value your time and your money— and then demand its price. I shall be proud to be sued by you for the sum. The publicity which I will then give to your philanthropy, if it save only one poor dupe, will repay me even, for the degradation of having sat under your THE squire's legacy. 247 roof, and let you speak to me of truth and honour." " Having gone so far in this matter," put in Mr. Mostyn, making a great effort to speak genially still, "you must take the loan. If forty pounds in hand is insufficient for you, we will raise the loan, and advance you the sixty." " If you advanced me six hundred," returned Scot, his handsome head erect, and his eyes running scornfully over the portly figure oppo- site him, " it would not make a shade of differ- ence. I have been fool enough to come here for assistance, and so I can fancy how other men, in their extremity, could come to you ; but I do not step, with my eyes open, into a hotbed of knavery and hypocrisy— you like the words, do you ? 1 see they move you more than the sorrows of those who come in their despair to lay themselves under your heavy, grinding heel. 1 wonder at it, too ; for with both knavery and hypocrisy you must be pleasantly familiar, now that you are travelling hand-in-hand." " I shall be under the unpleasant necessity/' spoke Mr. Mostyn, huskily, " of making you compensate me for every word of this insult* 248 the squire's legacy. No man has ever trifled with me and gone un- punished." "No man has ever crossed your threshold and gone unpunished, I should fancy. It would take years to rise upright again from such a humiliation." 44 Do you think," blurted Mr. Mostyn, his bland face becoming red and swollen, " that such words are not actionable, just because I am " It was really for want of breath he paused, but Scot filled in the pause with a cool air of assistance. " A philanthropic gentleman, whose only wish in life is to smooth the way for a weak brother or sister — Heaven pity them !" "When I was asked to send my letter to you," said Mr. Mostyn, as he gently wiped the small drops of moisture from his brow, while his words opened Scot's eyes suddenly to the trap which had been laid for him, " I was told that you were a gentleman — a gentleman of high birth, only in temporary embarrassment." " The gentleman who informed you," returned Scot, with quick, unutterable contempt, " un- derstands the title thoroughly ; I lay no claim to it ; I leave it to him and to you. I am a THE squire's legacy. 249 man, though, and, as a man, I will speak of you "before other men, if you give me the opportu- nity you promise, in a court of justice." "You would have to pay dearly for such words," muttered Mr. Mostyn, with but a feeble remnant of his smooth benevolence. But Scot Monkton was beyond hearing now, and the threat fell lamely back upon himself. 250 CHAPTER XVI. AN even keener disappointment, though not so humiliating a one, met Scot when he reached Mr. Bradford's offices in Gray's Inn Square. From the moment of his leaving Duke Street, he had had no uncertainty in his mind as to what he should do, now that that anticipated means of escape was closed against him, for there was no second course possible. So, while his thoughts were still angrily and scornfully hovering about those handsome premises in Duke Street, he was walking, in utter single- ness of purpose, towards Gray's Inn Square. And here it was that the last and keenest disappointment awaited him. Mr. Bradford had been in Edinburgh for some days, and it was not at all certain when he would return. Scot, his eyes a little tired in all their strength and steadfastness, looked in vain for Kenneth. the squire's legacy. 251 Young Mr. Bradford had not yet returned from Kingswood, Reynolds said, feeling how vexed his employer would be about this un* toward visit of Mr. Monkton's, not only the first he had paid at his solicitor's office since he had left Grosvenor Place, but evidently one with an important motive. Reynolds, simply as an excuse for leaving Mr. Monkton's presence while he was so puz- zled, went out to consult the junior clerks as to the probability of Mr. Kenneth's return that day. "It does not signify," Scot said, quietly thanking them as he walked back through the outer office, an unusual slowness in his tread ; " it is only Mr. Bradford whom I wished to see, and I will write." Reynolds, anxious and troubled as he hurried to the door, suggested that Mr. Monkton might perhaps choose to write there, and his letter should be given to Mr. Bradford in the first minute of his return. So Scot turned back and wrote, in few lines, how he needed now the help his old friend had so often and so warmly proffered ; and, leaving the letter sealed upon his table, went out again 252 THE SQUIRE S LEGACY. to walk in the crowd of the great city, which had ever until these last few days worn for him «o different an aspect. But Scot Monkton was not one to walk among his fellow-men wrapped selfishly in his own thoughts, and before he had reached Euston Station, he had read many a sad story upon the faces that he met, and had once or twice given a word or hand of help to those who sorely needed it. At last the North-Western train was on its way, and Scot was travelling back to Minton, with the depressing consciousness that his jour- ney had been utterly useless ; giving him only trouble and expense. He was trying, with his old undaunted spirit, to argue with himself that even that was better than that he should have fallen an easy prey to the philanthropy of Mr. Albert Mostyn, when the train stopped at Eil- burn, and he looked from the carriage window, with a vivid and sad remembrance of the little boy from whom he had parted here two days ago. And there, upon the platform, a sight met his eyes which thrilled him with unaccountable sadness. Standing back from the passing groups, utterly solitary in their midst, his small THE squire's legacy. 255 bag in his hand, the comforter still round his neck, and the label — soiled and crumpled now — suspended below it, his wide, wistful eyes fixed steadily upon the train, stood the little figure which had been at that instant occupying Scot Monkton's thoughts. No ticket kept the written label company now ; and yet the child seemed waiting there for another journey. Scot was out upon the platform before these thoughts had even grown definite; and he bent and touched the boy gently — for he had not turned from his intent watch. But when, at this touch, the child looked up, Scot felt that he should remember all his life the sudden brightening of those tired, hungry eyes, and the cry which passed the small, cold lips. " Oh ! I'm so glad !— so glad ! I didn't know you were here. I'm going back — I'm going home — to father." And then Soot's hand was seized by the tiny fingers, which were so eager in their clinging grasp, and yet so gentle too. He could not help it. He took the little fellow up in his arms, bag and all, and laid the cold, wet cheek against his own. There was 254 THE squire's legacy, 216 time for questioning or hesitation. Un- thinkingly dropping into his old habits, Scot gave a porter the only sovereign he possessed, and sent him for the half-ticket. The man, • with a kindly glance into the wistful white face, and quick to recognise a true gentleman in this third-class passenger, hurried to do his bidding, and not only came back in time to hand the ticket in, but brought an orange too, which he dropped without a word, as if by chance, beside the child's bag. "And so," said Scot, his one arm still round the little trembling form, "you were going back to father without a ticket !" "A ticket!" the child echoed, in a tired, troubled tone. "I couldn't get a ticket; it was more than a penny, and I hadn't more. I told them father'd pay when I got home — I told them my name and all, — but they didn't look at me again." " Perhaps they did not hear," suggested Scot, very gently, in the child's wistful pause of inquiry. " But you are all right now. Let us take the label off, lest it should lead you wrong." But the child looked up with anxious en- treaty, holding the string firmly in both hands. THE squire's legacy, 255 « No — please no," he whispered. " Father told me to keep it on till I found mother, and I haven't found her." "How is that?" asked Scot, very low and very kindly, as he dropped the string and looked down into the wide, frightened eyes. " Because she's gone — away. The lady told me she was gone with somebody that wasn't father, and she hadn't said a word 'bout me; and I thought of father, and " But here, to Scot's alarm, one quick, impetu- ous sob broke from the sad little heart, and, as if it had removed the flood-gate, others followed, hurriedly, recklessly, until the little shaking frame seemed utterly exhausted, and the eyes which had been so long undaunted, were hidden on the young man's breast. "Willy," he whispered, presently, longing for the little voice to break the silence which follow- ed this passionate burst of weeping, « see how fast we are going. You will soon be home again with father. Think how happy he will be presently, when the door opens just a little way, and a small face peeps in, and he sees that his little boy is come back ! Won't he be happy then ?" 256 THE squire's legacy. "But," said Willy, lifting his wet eyes a little, "he'll cry 'bout mother. He cried all night after she went. He said he didn't, so he didn't know; but I stroked his face in the dark, and felt the tears." "He will not cry to-day," asserted Scot, with confidence. " Now tell me all that has happened since you and I said good-bye. Did you find the place ?" " I found it," the child said, speaking softly and sorrowfully, as he laid his finger* on the label. " A kind man showed me all the way ix> there, and then the lady told me mother was gone, and she said she didn't know me, and I cams away ; and she caught me, and aaked me where I was going, and I said to father ; and she wouldn't let me, and put me to bed, and said she'd write to father, and I must wait for him. But I wouldn't let her take off this, 'cause father said only when I found mother ; and I said, * Please, I must go to father,' and die locked the door. And I stayed and stayed; but this morning, when it was light, it was open, and I ran away. I looked all about for the train, and then they wouldn't let me get in ; and I waited, and I thought soon they'd THE squire's legacy. 257 let me, if I didn't tease. And I was waiting, and then " — with a gentle smile of happiness, which was pitifully subdued — "you came. That was all." Yes, that was all, unless a watchful Hand, unseen, had guided the little one. No wonder that, soon after this, the weary child fell asleep within Scot's kind, protecting arm; and, while he held him very still, he looked down into the little sleeping face, and wondered how such tidings could be borne as those that he was taking home. " Minton !" Scot raised his head, and looked out into the familiar station which was to have been his destination ; but he never left his seat through the few minutes' pause, or slackened his hold of the sleeping child. Then once more the train moved on through the gathering dusk of the Winter evening ; and an hour afterwards it stopped at the town from which the child had told Scot he had started on his first journey, two days ago, and where his father's home was. " Willy," Scot whispered, rousing him gently, VOL. II. S 258 THE squire's legacy. " our journey is over. Now let us go and find your father.'' The streets were lighted glaringly as they walked through them; the young man glancing among the strange faces, simply by force of habit, for his generous thoughts — far away from his own perplexities — were centred in the sorrow which had been so strangely brought before him ; and the child hurrying over the ground he knew so well, talking now of father and home, yet all the time still clinging, timidly and trustingly, to his companion. The lights in the shop windows lent the chief radiance to the town, so that when, at the child's guidance, they turned out of the main street into a narrow one, the shop windows of which were dim, and in some cases entirely unlighted, Scot hesitated, involuntarily and unthinkingly. "Why d'you stop?" asked the child, wist- fully, as he looked up in the dim light. " Are you frightened of anything, please ?" " Frightened !" laughed Scot, moving on with sudden confidence, as this speech reminded him that such streets as these were "home" to 4N^-MVIP THE squire's legacy. 259 many. " Why should I be frightened, my dear little fellow?" "I don't know," mused the child, in the thoughful, polite tone which seemed so strange from babyish lips ; " but — but sometimes father and me think it dark here. We used to have gas in our shop, and that was very nice ; but then it died. A gentleman came one day, and then father said it would die, 'cause he couldn't give some money. Father didn't hardly speak to me that evening — and, oh, the shop was dark; and people came in to ask why — not to buy ; so father locked the door at last, and he hid his eyes on the table as if he was frightened ; but 1 wasn't. A candle is nice, isn't it?" " Another turning, is there ?" inquired Scot, glad to say only that, as Willy led him into a street a little narrower, though hardly less gloomy, than the last. " This is nearly our street." said the child, his voice stirred a little. w We're close to father now — quite close ! Oh, father !" The pitiful, childish cry broke off in a tearless sob, as if the weariness and the past despair, and the remembrance of the tale he had to tell, s2 260 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. were too much for the overwrought heart* Scot's hand closed more tightly on the little cold fingers ; but just then they turned another corner, and came suddenly upon a crowd, which blocked both the road and pavement. Scot stopped the child with his arm, and drew him closely to his side. " Wait," he said ; " let me see what it is." "Oh, come — please come!" entreated the child in an eager whisper, too thoroughly excited, now he was so near home, to bear this delay. " This is home ; the door is just here. Oh, will you please to come to father ? Will you please " — the babyish voice was raised now, addressing the crowd, whioh swayed and pushed and talked, and yet had a strange hush upon it now and then, as if it waited in a horror which was beyond words — "will you please let us pass ? We're going to father." " If so — if it's his father, keep him back, in the name of Heaven's own pity !" So a voice answered from the crowd, and quickly and compassionately Scot raised the little fellow in his arms, though the words were barely comprehended. " We will push our way through, my child," THE squire's legacy. 261 he whispered, '• but we must try the other side of the road." " Ob, no, no P shrieked the boy, with a frenzy which was literally startling after his gentle pleading. " Oh, please — father — father ! It's father's door. Oh, tell them to let us go in — please tell them — please tell them ! They'll go if you say it. Father — father! Father," whispered the child, his tone changing and fall- ing in an instant, as, from Scot's arm, he stretched both hands to the dark little shop, 41 father, it's me !" And then — while Scot gazed down in wonder at this sudden change — the wide eyes closed, the little white face fell heavily on his shoulder, and he knew that for a time there would be no knowledge of the things to be. 262 CHAPTER XVII. OF all the manifold terrors which visited her at the Black Birches, the one which most severely tried Miss Michal's nerves, was a strong and boisterous wind. " It's a wind," she used to say, with plaintive energy, "which nobody ever hears anywhere else. Where else does it come creeping so slyly up to the door, to hiss at the key-hole all about what it is going to do ; then break into a shriek to ask if I hear ; then roll back to gather all its strength, and, with a roar, come back to — batter in the house V" The conclusion of the remark, though more forcible than true,was the simple fact as it appear- ed in Miss Michal's imagination. All the horrors of burial among the fragments of a demolished building, did she suffer when — under cover of the darkness — the winds, in their so-called frolic,. THE squire's legacy. 263 seized the house and made it totter from end to end. And, if this were so on ordinary occasions, when Scot was there to speak lightly of her fears and tell her he liked to hear that revelry abroad — just as if it didn't mean instant destruction ! — what it was on this night before Scot's return, can only be feebly imagined. Though the drawing-room trembled to its very foundation, and certainly could not stand against one more such shivering blast, she must still sit there in solitude ; for the only alterna- tive was to share the sooiety of the soiled, slouching individual whom Miss Michal — though countless foroible adjectives rose in her mind perpetually in conjunction with him — never designated by any word beyond the very simplest applicable pronoun. The darkness had set in ; the wind was rising every moment — Miss Michal was sure of that, — and was raging at every corner of the house, tearing the bare branches out of its way, and altogether conducting itself like a whole army of infuriated giants who had at heart the fall of the Black Birches. Miss Michal had left her easy-chair at the fire, and seated herself rigidly beside the 264 THE squire's legacy. table, where the cold supper had no enticing look on this keen Winter night. But Miss Michal's thoughts were far away from the pro- spective meal — indeed, it was hard to tell how far they had gone, for, though she had a book of Family Devotions open on the table before her, and though she turned the pages at regu- lar intervals, her eyes were not only closed, but hidden, too, behind an ample satin apron which she had taken off for that especial purpose. So she had sat, as it seemed to her, through a whole cycle of the little timepiece which tick- ed so heavily in her solitude ; while, in her lively imagination, the floor bent and swayed, and the roof came down to meet it ; when, at last, through the noisy sweeping of the wind, she heard the peculiar, steady, easy knock which came from no hand but Scot's. Miss Michal replaced her apron in its usual position, and put away the book ; for she could bear to look upon life in its less dark and devotional aspect, now that her solitude was over. By a violent plunge \rhich she felt the whole house make, Miss Michal knew that Liath had been quick to open the front door ; but, eager as she was to see Scot, she made no forward step to THE squire's legacy. 265 meet him ; and, while she stood for a few mo- ments, literally wondering what held her back, the tears — always the quickest interpreters in Miss Michal's case — answered her. In this storm, which beat upon the old house so piti- lessly—and from cold and darkness to the home from which was taken now all homeliness — was he come back, disappointed and tired, and hope- less? Though Miss Michal could have set this doubt at rest in a moment by opening the drawing- room door and meeting Scot face to faoe, she did not do so. She stood with her fingers locked, and her eyelids beating like a bat's wings, until the door was opened without her intervention, and Scot came in, with a greeting which was only a little quieter than of old ; and — could Miss Michal believe her own eyes — yes, her own, though so dim and untrustworthy ? Was it really a boy — a living ohild — whom Scot held in his arms f " Scot," she said, in a low, intense whisper, as she crept up to him, and rested her wonder- ing eyes on his motionless burden, " what is it!" " A little lonely waif," replied Scot, looking 266 THE squire's legacy. down quite tenderly upon the closed eyelids with their thick wet fringe ; " a little waif for us to care for, Aunt Michal." " For us," gasped Miss Michal, faintly ; " for us? Why?" " I will tell you why presently," Scot said, as the child slowly awoke, with that terrible weari- ness which tells such a hopeless tale in a child's first waking moments. " Now it is nearly bed- time, isn't it ?" "Nearly bed-time!" echoed Miss Michal, aghast ; " bed-time for such an infant ! Why, Scot, it's midnight !" « I daresay," said Scot, his tone striving in vain for its old brave ring, as he put the child down, yet kept one kind hand on the little shrinking form ; " we shall be very glad to go to bed, but we are rather hungry, Aunt Michal." If anyone had told Miss Michal what would occur under these mysterious circumstances, she. would have meekly remarked, as a thing beyond argument, on its utter impossibility ; but yet it did occur under her very eyes, and her astonish-* ment was, after all, not the predominant feeling. In a few minutes she was on her knees before the fire, unwinding the shabby comforter from THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 267 the frail little figure, drawing off the outer one of the tight, worn coats, and now and then touching the white, pinched cheeks experiment- ally with one finger, and — yes, and more than once — shyly (and with a rapid movement after- wards, to distract even her own attention from the deed) pressing upon them a small, warm kiss. And, though there broke no smile yet on the troubled, grave face, still the look of shrink- ing fear was fading slowly, as Scot — whom the child's eyes chiefly followed — moved about the room, making light of the journey, and chatting of a hundred pleasant childish trifles, though addressing Miss Michal all the time, and leaving the child to himself to get accustomed to the new scene. And now — Miss Michal again mistrusted those tearful eyes of hers, and softly moved her fingers over them, to be sure they were her own — in oame Elizabeth with as fine a pheasant as was ever illicitly caught, and sauce and gravy and potatoes, and — "and all," concluded Miss Michal, in her baffled thoughts, foundering for want of expression. " Please, ma'am," said Elizabeth, seeing the question on her mistress's face, " Liath got it 268 THE squire's legacy. and managed it all. He said master'd be starved and hungry, and that it would be better." Better! Could Miss Michal deny it, when fihe looked from the hot, savoury dish to her own previous cold arrangements ? " Aunt Michal," said Scot, pausing in astonish- ment a few minutes afterwards, as he sat coax- ing the child to eat, " what is that mysterious noise V I have heard it at intervals ever since I came in." "And I," rejoined Miss Michal, pausing to listen too, and to wonder whether the wind had really ceased ever since Scot had come in, or if it could really have been unnoticed by her, " I heard it too. It's some of the doors falling in with this fearful wind." " Wind !" laughed Scot ; and as he spoke he rose and rang the bell. " It's the man banging on the door, sir," ex- plained Elizabeth, timidly. " He's in the cellar —locked in. Liath likes to do it when he can, " 99 sir. " I will set that right," said Scot ; but still he tranquilly continued his meal, and there was even a smile on his harassed face. "It is dreadful," observed Miss Michal, cheer- THE squire's legacy. 269 fully. " Liath locks him up and worries him, and frightens me out of my wits ! And then for Liath himself to go and — poach I" When Willy had eaten all they oould tempt him to eat, and was standing by Miss Miohal to bid her good night, Scot went to undo Liath's work ; and stayed away until, over the child's wide, sorrowful eyes, the lids had fallen in real and utter exhaustion. " Scot," said Miss Michal, in a lively tone, when she looked up and met his watching gaze, as he re-entered the room, " I've just remem- bered the little bed. Wasn't it providential that I bought it i" Scot nodded with a smile, before he carried the little fellow to his own room ; but when he returned to Miss Miohal she could see, more plainly than she had yet done, the evident anxiety with which he struggled. " But, Scot/' observed Miss Windish, half an hour afterwards, when Scot had finished the recital of his adventures in town (lingering over the pleasant side of his happening to fall in the way of this lonely ohild, and hurrying through the incidents over whioh be felt she would mourn or question him), "you are really not 270 THE SQUIRE S LEGACY, going to keep this boy here as an extra drag upon you ?" " If he had had a home at all, I should not have brought him here, Aunt Michal," the young man answered, gravely. " As it is, don't you think we can give him one — at present ?" "Oh! as to what I think," moaned Miss Michal, " that's no matter at all. If you choose to gather here all the wretched objects in crea- tion — and certainly the house is only fit for that — I cannot prevent it." "Nor would you if you could," said Scot, too generous to resent the speech, even in his weariness to-night. " If I tried to turn that little fellow out to-morrow morning, you would not let me." " At any rate you won't try," remarked Miss Michal, dolefully ; but she poked the fire into a blaze as she spoke, and, to those who knew her, this action was in itself a wide response. " What a terrible scene it must have been !" mused Scot, as he rested opposite her, his eyes upon the fire, and his voice low and troubled. "I dared not go in, for fear the child should wake to consciousness in there. The premises were nearly bare, though the — the bailiffs," THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 271 said Scot, with a swift, angry glance at the door as he uttered this word in quick con- tempt, which sounded almost like amusement, "were in possession. In possession," he re- iterated, his eyes kindling, " of the half-empty rooms, and the body of the suicide I" " Oh, Scot, hush I" cried Miss Michal, all her little, pale features working. "How terribly you say it ! What a wicked man he must have been !" "A young fellow," Scot went on, in the rapid, dreamy tone which held so much straightfor- wardness even in its very perplexity ; " a young fellow, they told me, whose wife had left him, and who had, two days before, parted with his child — up to that day his one constant compan- ion — in (so they supposed) anticipation of this act. A young fellow — young? Great God! what can be the thoughts which lead a man to say his life has been long enough in its very beginning, and to end it for himself?" "So wickedly," supplemented Miss Michal, with a shudder. "So wickedly," echoed Scot, with great thoughtfulness. "His wife was a worthless woman to be grieved for ; his child was but a 272 THE squire's legacy. baby to be missed so sorely; his debts were mean and trifling ones to weigh a man down ; and his life was a narrow, unnoticed, joyless- life, hardly worth the living. To whom did it signify whether he lived it out in its dim course- there, or hastened its close when he was tired of it?" " Scot, Scot," cried Miss Michal, startled into an excitement of real alarm, " don't speak so of such a sinner! Oh! Scot, it is the deadliest sin of all, because no repentance can follow." "No," the young man answered, very quietly. " Aunt Michal, what should we do, if our judg- ment did not lie in the hand of Him who made us, and who knows in what weak momenta sometimes our great temptation finds us ?" "And you mean to say," observed Miss Michal, after a little pause, and a few irrepress- ible tears, "that the poor wretched man had been ruined by borrowing money ?" " That was only my own idea. Probably Mr.. Albert Mostyn put it into my head ; at any rate, both shop and house were, as I said, nearly- empty, and the men had been sent in by the landlord. The house was almost in darkness when they arrived, and the young man was THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 273 sitting beside an empty grate— can you picture it? Five minutes afterwards all was over." " And could not those two horrible men have stopped him t" " They don't even seem to have seen it done. There was a glass of water on the table ; and, before he questioned them by a word, they saw him drink ; an d " "And that was poison!" murmured Miss Michal, below her breath. "Oh, Scot, how sinful I" " To-morrow, after nightfall — and in uncon- secrated ground— 'they will bury him ; and* Aunt Michal, I intend to go." " Oh ! of course you do 1 I hare long ceased to be surprised by anything you do," bewailed Miss Michal, resignedly. " I suppose it would be useless to ask you what olaim this miserable creature has upon you T ' " Quite useless, Aunt Michal ; because all that I know about such a claim, you know equally well* But, if it were only for the child's sake, I should go," A rigid and gloomy silence fell upon Miss Michal then, while she pondered her woes. As if it were not enough for Soot to be nearly VOL. n. T 274 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. ruined himself, without going off to make him- self one with — Miss Michal only used this term in thought, so she was not called upon to explain it — a man who has been utterly ruined, and who has ended his life by a crime ! As if it were not hard enough for Ir to bear exist- ence under present circumstances, even with Scot's constant presence and help, without his leaving her alone, and going off after strange deaths and funerals ! " Scot," she said, when at last the burden of aggrieved thought found vent in speech, " you must do as you like, of course ; but I don't think you have exhibited such wonderful sense, so far, in the management of your own affairs that it should tempt you to manage anyoneelse's. Just think how different it used to be in old times, when no worries ever came near you, and you didn't know the meaning of debt, and poverty, and misery, and " " This is a splendid wind, Aunt Michal," put in Scot, rising, and throwing open one of the shivering windows ; " strong and dry. I like to feel it — don't you t" Miss Michal smiled with a feeble attempt at irony — but still she came and stood beside Scot at the open window. THE squire's legacy. 275 " It would be curious," she said, " if I did like to feel the house tumbling down: It isn't many people — even women — who would enjoy being crushed to death, Scot ; though of course it may be their doom, and they can't help it." " Liath !" called Scot, as a footstep passed the open window, through which the wind rushed in and brought weird flying shadow* as it swayed the fire flame, and shook the globe on the lamp. " A fine wind, isn't it ?" " Indeed 'tis, sir ; our barn '11 need extra props this year, Til warrant." " I thought you said you would go up stairs and watch with that little waif." " So I was, sir," Liath answered, coming close to his master, because it was difficult to make himself heard; "and he woke and cried — for you, I guess, sir ; but I told him lots o' things he should see to-morra, and got him to sleep agin at last — but not till he'd sung some hymn as it seems he alius sings, and couldna sleep athout. He's the darlihgest baby, so fur as singing goes, as ever I see ; but for solemnness, he might be a judge and jury all in one. When I asked him how he liked my bird for supper, he wanted to know all about wheer it used to T2 276 THE squire's legacy. fly, and said he'd rather see it fly than eat it. It's plain he's not got his eatittte yet ; though he swalla'd water all the time I let him, and yet his lips was as dry as a rock, poor little widgeon !" * But why are you out now ?" "Only lookin' round, sir," replied Liath, with most demonstrative nonchalance. " I alius just like to look round — lately. I s'pose you know, sir, that that theer Frenchman's comin 9 back?" M I didn't know he was away." "Didn't ye, sir? Oh, he went to Alps — that's beyond London, ain't it, sir t" " Scot," murmured Miss Michal, when Liath had received his information, and passed on into the darkness, " what can that ugly French* man mean by his conduct ? Tou say he had that letter sent to tempt you to borrow the money. Scot, my dear, what can be his drift ?" "Only this," Scot answered, as the wind tossed his hair from his hot face, " to bring me down so low in poverty — or something worse — that, as my last chance, I shall commission Bradford to buy (for the estate) the -secret he pretends to hold of my uncle's." THE squire's legacy. 277 "But suppose he really holds valuable in- formation V 9 questioned Miss Michal, anxiously, while her longing thoughts hovered about their old easy life, and the possibility of Soot being enabled to resume it, only by the possession of these mysterious papers. "Ah — suppose 1" laughed Soot. "But, as Bradford says, when a man will sell only in the dark, it stands to reason that his goods will not bear the daylight — eh, Aunt Michal !" " But, if you don't buy, there will be no end to his persecution." " Sooner or later," returned Scot, tranquilly, u there must come an end." 278 CHAPTER XVHI. IT was Monday evening, three days after Scot's return from London, and the re- ception-rooms at Osborne House were flooded with light, and dazzling in all the unveiled glory of green satin and gold-coloured gimp. Hothouse flowers, as costly as they were beautiful, stood about in bouquets, round in form and flat upon the surface ; and above them crept a faint, artificial scent which left no space for their pure, fragrant sighs. Neither Bernard Levey nor his sisters would have liked to tell why this party was a source of unwonted excitement and ambition ; yet they all knew — for themselves and for each other — that it was so. Bernard, in the ugly orthodox costume, without which dancing is a luxury taboo'd, paused to look down the glittering- rooms, and smiled with irrepressible satisfaction. THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 279 Though his aoquaintanoe with Byron was on the slightest possible foundation, be agreed with him that " maidens, like moths, are oaught by glare." Therefore, oould Doris Egerton be surrounded by this splendour to-night, without feeling how delioious it would be to live always in its midst at Osborne House, with a husband who oould afford her suoh luxuries, and who would take an aotual pleasure in affording them for one whom he bad seleoted to love? No, oertainly not. Mr. Levey answered his own thought so, with a smile of amusement at there being any doubt about it. Miss Levey, in a rose-coloured dress of mani- fold skirts and a very trifling appendage in the way of bodioe, walked slowly into the supper- room, and tried to realise how the soene would strike anyone who came direct from the quiet, ordinary little meals at the Black Birches. And Violet, holding in one hand her long lace skirts, and in the other those minor allurements whjch, though belonging to the feminine body-guard, are unattaohed in the servioe, sailed down the stairs, and tried the polish of the hall floor, happily oonscious that Captain Felix Gresford oould appreciate a good waltzing surface as 280 THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. highly as any officer in Her Majesty's service* " Before this night is over," thought Bernard to himself as the carriage of his first guests dashed up upon the gravel, and he gave one last complaoent glance around him upon the " glare" which was to be so successful, " I shall have set all doubt at rest. Well, she is quite worthy of it all, and I shall be prouder of her than of anything I have." " Before this night is over," mused Rose, suc- ceeding at last in catching the seventh button of her long white glove, " I must let him see quite plainly what he was so slow to see on the morning before he went to London. That hint will have paved the way, and he will perhaps have thought much of it, and be grateful to me for any opportunity 1 may give him. I don't know bow it is, but I feel that, with all that open, easy way of his, he has a great deal of very extraordinary and unnecessary reserve. But I think — I think" — with a smile at the mirrored reflection of a tall figure in rose-colour- ed silk — " it will all go smoothly and satisfac- torily for me to-night." "Before our ball is over," reflected Violet, her heart fluttering as she recognised the heavy THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 281 swift approach of the officers' drag from Minton, " poor Felix will, I expect, have spoken bis mind at last/ 9 A few minutes afterwards, the brother and sisters had separated, and were lost among their guests ; and half the evening programme was over when it chanced that they met again a little beyond the oruah in the great hall, which was devoted to the dancing. 14 Bernard/' whispered Miss Levey, in a tone of suppressed petulance, " did you really write that second note to Mr. Monkton, urging him to oome, after he had said it was so very un- certain 1" " Certainly ; and he wrote again to beg me still to consider it unoertain, though he would oome if he could." "You ought to have told me," fretted Rose* " I thought he was quite sure to be here after your second note. If I had known— — " "What!" asked Violet, with a smile— she oould afford an exoess of smiles to-night* But Rose overlooked the query, and Bernard had walked on. 11 It is strange, Rose— it is indeed," asserted Violet, with an evident consciousness of merit 282 THE squire's legacy. in waiting to offer sympathy, " especially when you notice that Margaret Chamberlain is not here, though she promised to come." " But she wrote an excuse." "And what difference does that make?" laughed Violet, leaving her sister to fret over nothing that the words had really expressed, but much that they had implied. On went the dancing, happily as these joys will always seem to go, until that impossible time shall come when our hearts' wrath, or grief, or bitterness will be painted in our faces, and reflected in our dress. Mr. Bernard Levey had more than once lapsed into forgetfulness of his duty as host, in the unusual energy with which he was completing, in his own person, the fascination which his surroundings were to exercise over Doris Egerton's mind. They had been dancing together, and now he had led her from the hall to a little room of his own, called by distinction the library, to show her a photo- graph of which he had been speaking, and to which — though of course Doris did not know this — he had carefully and adroitly led the conversation, in spite of many difficulties he had had to surmount in keeping Doris's way- THE SQUIRE S LEGACY. 285 ward ideas in the groove he had marked. '* I have never been into this room before," said Doris, looking round it, as she stood in the light, which was a " glare " even here. " Is it your own private room, Mr. Levey ?" He was looking at her, while he framed his coming answer with that elaboration which in itself is so often fatal at such a time. Her eyes had not dropped from the rows of brightly-bound novels and the shining accoutrements of a Yeomanry officer, and so he could gaze unhin- dered. How different his room looked now! How pleasant it was to feel that it held only those two — the handsome master of the house, and that pretty girl with the bright eyes and the sunny hair, with the beautiful warm smile and tender lips, with the soft blush and the fair white skin ! What figure in all the crowd had the grace of this girlish figure? Even her dress was the perfection of elegance, though its long white folds were simply of cashmere, among which the snowy silken trimming* caught the light richly and softly, with none of the metallic glitter of the beads and bullion he had left behind him in the hall. " No, you have never been here before, Miss- 284 THE squire's legacy. Egerton," began Mr. Levey, venturing his prepared speech with a brave spirit ; M if you had, the room would have been as sacred to me before this day, as I feel it to be now. But, if you are not here very often in the future, it will not indeed be for want of entreaty." Her eyes were on his face now, resting there in simple surprise ; not at what he said, but at the unusual nervous energy with which he said it. " Though it is my own private room," he went on, bent upon going through the whole prepared rejoinder to her first remark, « it will never again charm me unless I may feel that you take an interest in it too, and will some day let it be yours equally with mine." For an instant the floor swayed under Doris as if she were out at sea; but she speedily recovered herself. " I have read a great many of these stories," she said, her pretty girlish voice unstirred by either pleasure or vanity ; " I have read them aloud to Aunt Joan. I especially remember one or two. Shall we go back now ?* " Not yet — not quite yet," he pleaded, put- ting on a smile of such inscrutable purport that THE squire's legacy. 285 a sensation terribly like laughter began to touch her lips. " Miss Egerton, before we return, let me speak one word to you here. I have long wanted to say it, and have delayed for — for fear, I suppose, of startling you. But now I can speak ; no one will come in, and this has been such a cheerful, happy night. I am so proud to entertain you in my house. Of oourse I'm proud to entertain all my guests, but you especially — the prettiest and the brightest and the dearest." 11 Will you let us go back now, Mr. Levey V 9 interposed Doris, quite gently, but in a tone which no man could have misunderstood, un- less, like Bernard Levey, he had been blinded by ambition and self-love. " Can you not understand me V he whispered, smoothing his gloved fingers as he stood before her, and possibly for that moment fanoying— for there must be fleeting rays of romance across even such a nature as his— what it would be if she met him with a smile and blush. " Miss Egerton, can you not under- stand for what word I am longing V Ever since I saw you first I have admired you be- yond any lady I ever saw, and indeed almost 286 THE squire's legacy. from that very day, 1 have loved you too." " I thought, Mr. Levey," said Doris quietly — and as she spoke she stooped to take her skirt in her hand, that she might es cape his eager gaze — " I thought you knew that I was engaged to Mr. Bradford. Tour sisters knew, and I always felt sure you did too. I am sorry to see now that you did not." " Once or twice," said Bernard, patches of red suddenly starting into life on the white and aquiline surface of his face, " I have heard remarks about yourself and — or rather, I should say, I have noticed that he, like myself, admires you very much." " I am sure," put in D oris, with a flash of irrepressible merriment in her eyes, "that Kenneth Bradford does not admire me at all." "I am not surprised," Mr. Levey allowed, gravely, "at any man's admiring you, Mifcs Egerton — indeed, I'll defy any man to help it — but in my case it is the weakest feeling. I love you a thousand times more than I admire you. No other man could love you as I do." This is such a limping assumption at all times, that no wonder Doris received it then with calm and simple incredulity. THE squire's legacy. 287 " I am very sorry," she said, " that you did not know I was going to marry Kenneth Brad- ford. We need not discuss the different ways in which men love, need we? Now I think papa will be wondering where I am." •' I thought you liked this house," observed Bernard, ruefully ; " and it would be so near your father. You could see him every day ; and I need not deny you anything. I love you so immensely that I should make you happy in every possible way. The whole aim of my life would be to make you happy ; and no man could do more than that. And, if you are thinking about my sisters, Miss Egerton " — Mr. Levey had touched the height of passion, but instantane- ously his foot had slipped, and down he had stumbled once more to his level — " they have large fortunes of their own— indeed they have — and are not at all dependent on my home." " I am very glad to hear it, of course," said Doris, demurely. " It must be pleasant to have a large fortune." "Accept mine, Miss Egerton !" cried Bernard, plodding once more up the height. "I shall never care for it again if you refuse it — never !" " Did you think I was in want of a fortune, 288 THE squire's legacy. then, Mr. Levey?" inquired Doris, with quiet humour. "No ; but I know you will adorn a handsome home, and this is a handsome home; and," he added, with a spasm, " I still hope you will adorn it." " I have told you," said Doris, gently, " how impossible that is. Please let us go now." But if the girl fancied that she had got rid of her admirer, by inducing him to take her from this private room of his, where he had so power- fully urged his suit, she was sorely mistaken. Just as persistently, and almost as hopefully, after she had professedly received her freedom, did the master of this dazzling mansion haunt his young guest, leading her attention with great anxiety to its various enticements, and supplementing his notices upon them with strong hints, or plain assertions, that these pos- sessions could be hers, if she would only show a little natural discretion, and select for her husband the man whose power of bestowing was so great. " Oh ! papa," whispered Doris, ' slipping her hand into Colonel Egerton's arm, when at last THE squire's legacy. 289 she had escaped, and had found him alone, " let us go home." " What ! Tired already, love — you, the bright- est and merriest of them all V "Yes, quite tired ; are not you?" "That's a different question," he laughed, shaking his head. " Old fogies soon tire of this rush of feet ; but I thought you never tired of dancing." " I do, papa ; I am very tired now." " Ah, I see !" returned Colonel Egerton, with a soft little whistle of comprhension. " I forgot who was not here. You would not ask me to take you home if Kenneth were here — eh, love !" " I wonder," mused Doris, her gaze far before her, while she slowly smiled assent to her father's remark, "why Mr. Monkton is not here." " Too busy, I daresay ; he's always busy now." " Papa," she said, raising her eyes as if in real surprise at his easy tone, " you don't feel as if something had happened to keep him away, do you f " " Happened ? No, dear, certainly not. Think VOL. n. U 290 THE squire's legacy. of trying to grow morbidly fanciful, on such a night as this !" "Is it a fine night?" "I meant indoors, of course. Is not this a gorgeous scene ? Out of doors I really don't know. The wind is still too high for there to be any sign of rain. Why? Are you afraid of your dress, between the door and the car- riage ?" " Not very," replied Doris, with a laugh. " I was only wondering whether Papa," she added, in a changed tone, " do you notice that Mr. and Miss Chamberlain are not here f " " Of course I notice ; but we need never be surprised where they are concerned, my dear," said Colonel Egerton, moving slowly on with, his daughter. *• See, there is Levey looking for you." " Papa," she whispered, clinging to him, " we are going home, aren't we ? Will you tell him so, if he comes for me ?" "Oh!" exclaimed Colonel Egerton, again with the soft whistle of comprehension, " that is it, is it? I thought his manner rather curious to-night in keeping you to himself, and fright- ening away other partners. Yet he knew of THE squire's legacy. 291 your engagement, for I told him myself. All right, my dear little girl. Look up and smile. No sad looks for such as he !" To express Mr. Levey's sentiments in Mr. Levey's own words, Doris Egerton had taken suoh a hold upon him that he could think of no one else. Even after her plain avowal of her engagement to Kenneth Bradford, he could not stand aside and leave her to win what enjoyment she could from this festival which he had ordained. He had apparently a still firmly rooted conviction that, if she were made fully aware of the numerous attractions of Osborne House, she could no longer resist him, or be sufficiently blinded to her own inte- rests to prefer young Bradford, before the im- maculate scion of the wealthy house of Levey. But after his shrewd guess, Colonel Egerton did not seem to think it necessary that he should leave his daughter again, and just as soon as it could be courteously arranged, his carriage was sent for and announced. With a sigh of relief— in spite of a certain uncomfort- able feeling that her refusal of Bernard Levey had not been taken as decisive, and that he had every appearance of being prepared to state his u2 292 THE squire's legacy. feelings once more at the earliest opportunity .-Doris took her seat in the brougham, and in her natural, unaffected way answered Mr* Levey's eager last words, while he stood at the carriage door, braving the tempestuous wind, the ardour of his breast being a more efficient armour than its embroidered decoration. Then Colonel Egerton — with a laughing remark to his host, which, though incomprehensible in its full meaning by the recipient, still gave the old officer a little satisfaction in the utterance — followed Doris, and drew up the window. Not for long after their departure did the dancing continue at Osborne House; but (be* fore that cry of alarm and terror stopped it as by a breath) Violet Levey and Captain Gresford had managed to exchange a few words which gave mutual satisfaction. " A capital ball — don't you think so, Miss Levey ?" Not a very intricate question, and Violet's answer was equally forcible in its simplicity* " Very* I'm so glad you have enjoyed it. I hope you will come again soon." " Miss Violet," replied Captain Gresford* im- pressively, H I will come to-morrow, if you will allow me." s^eva*aBiiMa«9Ky^a*^rs7T7K7isr7>s' THE squire's legacy. 293 " But we shall not give another ball to-mor- row," observed Violet, with a frank and charm- ing smile. " No one will be here." " Everyone will be here whom I wish to see. May I come?" 44 Oh ! of course we shall be delighted to see you," whispered Violet, with an innocent and charming skill in the use of the plural pronoun* " I shall quite look forward to your visit, even if Bernard and Rose do not. Everything is so dreadfully dull on the day after a ball — don't you think so V' 44 To-morrow will not be dull. If it is not to be the happiest day of my life, it will be the most awfully miserable." 44 How strange l"" murmured Violet, sweetly, as she glided to her place in the dance, still of course at Captain Gresford's side. " I cannot imagine it possible." "Violet," whispered her sister, when that dance was over, u what can have kept away the Chamberlains and Mr* Monkton V ' " They are having a small dance together, perhaps, on their own account," answered Vio- let, flippantly. " What do you think, Rose !" The sisters were together, and Rose had 294 THE squire's legacy. taken care to speak where no one could over- hear. " I do not know." " Well, don't look so crestfallen, for you ought to rejoice in your sister's happiness. I'm going- to accept Felix Gresford to-morrow — I de- clare, Rose, I never saw such a tragic counte- nance. What have you on your conscience t" " What's that ?" "The wind. What else? I have heard it now and then all the evening. Don't be so silly, Rose. Where are you hurrying now ?" " Upstairs. I want a little rest, though I don't know what disturbs me. 1 long to feel the wind upon my face, and to look out into the darkness. Oh! how this glare has made my head ache." " Or something else," mused Violet, smiling with a peculiar kind of sympathy — which at any rate had the merit of not being demonstrative — as her elder sister, in her gorgeous dress, passed silently from the gay scene. ******* Colonel Egerton's carriage had just turned into the road which skirted the sloping mea- dows lying between Comely Place and the THE squire's legacy. 295 river — beyond which lay the Black Birches — when unexpectedly, and for no apparent reason, the horses were pulled up. " What is it I" inquired Colonel Egerton ; but he had wondered for a few moments before putting down the window, and so, by the time the question was asked, his coachman had whipped on his horses. " What was it, Evans ?" called the Colonel, a little louder. " I saw some one riding up the larch meadow, sir," said Evans, tightening the reins again, to turn and answer his master; "I thought it would be Mr. Monkton, and that he would wish to speak to you." " And it was not, of course ?" " I'm not sure, sir, but I think no one else could ride up the meadow, from the "Green Pits to the road behind us. Still it could hardly have been Mr. Monkton, because he crossed into the bridle path to Comely Place and rode on fast." " Up the meadow !" repeated Colonel Eger- ton, incredulously. "Nonsense, man; do you think anyone would cross that wooden bridge on horseback? It's only a plank. Drive on, and don't fall asleep again." 296 THE squire's legacy. " Evans has partaken rather freely of some- thing at Osborne House, I expect," he mutter- ed, with a laugh, as he leaned back in his seat ; " he dreams dreams and sees visions." But, as Doris asked no questions, he fancied she had heard nothing of these dreams and visions. "You look so tired, my dear," he said, when they had left the carriage, and entered the lighted hall at home, "that I recommend your going straight to your room. I will send you something which will do you good, and Mary is sure to have a famous fire there for you. Good night, my darling. Be sure," he added, kissing her with infinite tenderness, " that you bring the usual roses down with you in the morning, and not" — with a soft touch upon her cheeks — "these unfamiliar snow-blossoms. Good night, dear love." He stood to watch her as she walked slowly up the stairs ; and stood so, even after she had looked back with a smile, and turned out of eight* In deep thought he stood, until— one minute afterwards — the silence of the house was broken by a cry of fear and horror from, his darling's lips. . 297 CHAPTER XIX. WHILE the guests had been assembling at Os- borne House, Miss Windish sat before her parlour fire, engaged in a task which was so new and unfamiliar to her, that she caught herself— or rather she might have caught herself had she not been too intently engrossed in the task for a thought beyond it — smiling in serene astonish- ment even at herself. Aided by a great many small gesticulations — soaring sublimely above all passion, though intended to illustrate, in their turn, alarm, ferocity, and slaughter — she was narrating the personal experience of Jack the Giant Killer, in the novel form of an autobio- graphy ; and, if the little listener, who stood before her, with wide eyes, which in all their wonder retained that unchildlike gravity which told of a life robbed of its babyhood, could not be sufficiently impressed with the giant's 298 THE squire's legacy. savagery to content Miss Michal, still a balance was struck by his evident realisation of the feebleness and helplessness of Jack himself. * That's all." Miss Michal's favourite verbal conclusion fell here upon an awed, expectant silence. "Is it!" questioned the child, wistfully. " Weren't you frightened when you'd killed the giant ?" " Not a bit," asserted Miss Michal, delighted to see how this identification of herself with her hero proved the success of her autobiographical experiment. " Is the giant in heaven now V 9 Miss Michal's reply this time was not so brisk. Indeed, when it came, it was not clothed in words at all, but only fell in kisses on the ques- tioning lips. " And now," she said, presently, rising at the sound of Scot's step without, " suppose we make the tea, and begin to think about bed. It's all very well for us to talk about not being sleepy, and all that sort of thing ; but while we are so tiny " Miss Michal ceased her harangue suddenly for want of an audience, and stood watching the THE squire's legacy. 299- open door, with the tea-caddy in one hand and the ladle in the other. And when Scot, with the child on his shoulder, came stooping under the doorway, she had the hardest work in the world to prevent answering his laugh, and to gather a suitable expression of woe into her face. " Well, Scot, then you aren't going to the dance at Osborne House ?" " Not unless you want a partner, Aunt MichaL Are you going?" "Absurd!" she muttered, closing the tea- caddy with a little bang of disapproval. " For goodness' sake put that boy down, Scot, and rest yourself. You look as harassed, at this moment, as if you'd the national debt on your mind." " This little grave old gentleman is getting- to look better already, isn't he, Aunt Michal?" questioned the young man, as he put the child to the ground, and stroked his pinched cheeks with such a tender, gentle touch of his tired fingers, that Miss Michal turned away and form- ed a wonderful, though weak, resolution not to worry herself about his troubles any more, since he could defy them so openly. 300 THE squire's legacy. ^ When tea was over, the child dragged hia •chair from the table, and set it on the hearthrug near Scot's ; then, seating himself, he waited with his little hands folded, and his feet crossed. Miss Michal, on her way out of the room to visit a hen which was in hospital in the kitchen, noticed, too, that the slow, unchildlike tears were gathering in the boy's wistful eyes. " Sure as ever the evening comes," she mused to herself, on her way, " he goes through ihat silent fretting for his father. Of course such a wicked man ought not to be fretted for at all by a sensible child ; but still he does it, and it's very dismal. One cannot very well try to teach him now that this father of his was a bad man ; and yet how much pleasanter it would be if he knew !" With this extraordinary opinion depressing her, Miss Michal administered a dose to her patient, and stood to discuss minutely with Liath the prospects of a new-born yellow brood, which was another of her especial cares at this moment. And so a long half-hour passed before she returned to the sitting-room, to find Scot writing, while the child now stood •close at his side, pleading, in a timid whisper, THE squire's legacy. 301 for him to " play." Miss Michal was perfectly aware that this request had reference to no romping or game of any kind, so she herself put Scot's cornet-box beside him, before she took up her sewing — such sewing for the unpractised fingers ! — and let her needle creak its way through a stiff little snow-white shirt, as if through cardboard. "A business letter, I suppose, Scot?" she queried, when at last his pen halted, and, with its feathered end, he ruffled the little head beside him. " Dear, dear ! how glad you seem that it is over 1" "Not sorry, Aunt Michal, by any means," said Scot, whistling while he folded and sealed the letter to his old lawyer. " I think Bradford could not have received that letter I left at his office, or he would have sent to me. At any rate, this shall go to him." " I have wondered each day that you didn't telegraph to him," sighed Miss Michal. " The Bradfords couldn't have known that he was living here all this time." " I have told the fact plainly enough now," said Scot, perfectly comprehending that Miss Michal's contemptuous pronoun belonged to 302 THE squire's legacy. the bailiff. And then he rose and put aside the letter — where it was to lie untouched until its tidings were nothing worth, — and gave the little lad a " play/' which was as new to him as it was exciting, and left him in a state of utter breathlessness, but of intense yet puzzled de- light. " It sounds funny to laugh so loud," he said, looking straight from Scot's face to Miss Michal's. " I oughtn't to— ought I ?" 44 Certainly not," retorted Miss Michal — per- haps finding it the easiest thing to say, under the circumstances. " I thought not/' meditated the little fellow, only half aloud. " But I couldn't help it. It came." " I have before now known a little boy who laughed aloud occasionally," remarked Scot; but Miss Michal did not again raise her eyes from her work, until Willy had won his request, and Scot was playing to a most rapt and earnest little listener. " Now, my dear, say * Good night,' " put in Miss Michal, when Scot paused, after playing the airs he felt the child might recognise, and possibly be fond of; "it is hours beyond the THE squire's legacy. 303 proper bed-time for such a small person." With prompt obedience, the boy did as he was told; but, when he and Miss Michal reached the door, he stopped her suddenly, with an eager clasp of his arms about her neck. "Oh! stay— oh! let me, stay!" he pleaded, with a quick, convulsive sob. "I — am frightened." " It's after eleven now," fretted Miss Windish, looking back helplessly. " Never mind, Aunt Michal," said Scot, speak- ing coolly in French, as he changed a shank of his cornet. "The tunes, perhaps, have re- minded him of old times, and this hour, too, brings it back to him. Let him stay, poor little boy I — won't yout And if wq take no notice of the fear — which is quite a natural one, after all, — it will soon die away." It was not for the child Scot played now — neither for the child nor for herself, as Miss Michal knew; he was playing to his own thoughts, with long pauses between the melo- dies — pauses which she felt it her duty to break as often as she could. "Scot," she said, interrupting him with a jerk in the last line of " Adelaide," " I wonder 304 THE squire's legacy. you never play those old airs I used to sing to you at Kingswood. There was i Meet me by moonlight alone/ and *Le Beveil d'un Beau Jour,' and * The Woodpecker,' and— all. They never had the dismal sound of the things you sometimes play. I am sure those you lay to Schubert make me more miserable than debts do, because I like them too much to stop them, and yet I don't like them at all. That last tune was so beautiful, and yet " "Somehow," said Scot, reflectively, as he put away his cornet, " I never can bring out those upper notes full and clear, in B flat; with my A shank on, I could manage it pretty well." And Miss Michal accepted the reply as mean- ing only what it seemed to mean ; though she was vaguely conscious that his cornet was more to him than she could understand, and that he dared not let its voice lead him often back to those days at Kingswood, when no shadow of debt, or poverty, or dishonour had darkened that straight, clear path which stretched before him through a useful and a noble manhood. " Now that we are silent again," remarked THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY, 305 Miss Windish, presently, " I can hear that the wind is as high as even We are going to have another night of it." " It does no harm, Aunt Michal," said Scot, lightly ; and just at that moment Liath brought him in a note. It was not wonderful that Miss Michal's eyes grew so round and eager, nor that her work fell in her lap, as she gazed from the note in Scot's hand to the dial of the time- piece. " Twelve o'clock, Scot. Don't you be led to go to Comely Place at this hour, whatever Mar- garet says." But, in spite of her anger — for. Miss Michal was too really wrathful to plead — she knew that when Scot left the room, going without a word of good-bye, for fear of the child's tears, he was on his way out into the tempestuous midnight darkness. She sat quite still for a long time after he had left her, her mind torn between two desires — that of pleasing the child by keeping him with her, and that of doing what she knew to be her duty, and insisting on his going to bed. Of course it was very hard to resist his en- treaty to stay, and of course he might rest all VOL. II. X 306 THE SQUIBE'S LEGACY. day to-morrow to make tip for this ; bat still it was just as bard to sit and watch him in that unnatural wakefulness, shadows growing under his eyes, and a fevered spot beginning to burn in each thin cheek. So, for the sake of escap- ing both these alternatives, Miss Windish went away, to wander about the house for a time,, and, as she expressed it, see that things were right. Though perhaps her strongest bias was to- wards her invalid hen, she found a visit to it impossible, as the kitchen door was locked* Never doubting that the man in possession had taken the key with him to his own room, poor Miss Micbal, feeling the indignity sorely, retired into the dark and unused drawing-room to " have her cry out." She never knew — because, after that one glance at the time-piece, while Scot was reading Margaret Chamberlain's note, she never thought of the time again through all that night — how long she had been away, when she returned to the wagm and lighted sitting- room, to find it empty. Just as plainly as if she had been told — so Miss Michal said afterwards— she knew that the child was gone to look for Scot, and, acting on THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 307 {;; her first impulse, she stood in the hall and (j called Liath, in a voioe pitched for the purpose j, of reaching his ear in his attic. But, to her surprise, Liath emerged only from the kitchen, taking the key from the lock as he came, and looking the door behind him on the outside. " Then you are not in bed, Liath t" exclaim- ed Miss Miohal, perhaps rather unnecessarily. "Where's the child ?" Considering that Liath had said good night to Willy four hours before, and had fancied the child in bed ever since, his reply did not mate- rially further the discovery. " He couldna have bin in the kitchin, Miss," continued the old man, meditatively, " cos the door's bin locked all evenin' — it's a satisfaction to lock 'im anywheers, even if I'm 'bliged to lock myself with 'im — and 'Lizbeth's bin gone to bed this hour* He mun be out, miss ; theer's no doubt o' that ; and what a night for sich a delcut little un ! If " " If what t" interrogated Miss Miohal, sharply. " Nothin', Miss Windy. I was on'y goin' to say that theer Frenchmun would be at the bot- tom o' this, on'y he's away." x2 308 THE squire's legacy. " Nonsense," retorted Miss Michal, with stern common-sense. " Get your lantern, Liath." " I think not, Miss," said Liath, pulling down the brim of his old felt hat, and opening the front door against the wind. " Til do better athout, and safer for the little un. Bolt up behind me, please, Miss Windy, and don't ye mind that theer bangin'. It'll do him good to exercis his wrisses a bit on the door panniers." "Make haste, Liath. How slow you are!" fumed Miss Michal, astonished even herself at the anxiety she felt. " Of course I shall search the house while you are away, but all the same I'm sure the child has wandered out after Mr. Monkton. Oh, dear — dear!" But, before this pathetic conclusion, Liath passed from her sight, out into the heavy dark- ness; From room to room the little lady wandered, her candle flaring among the draughts, and her feeble call now and then breaking the silence of the empty rooms. But her fruitless search did not surprise her in the slightest, and her tears had fallen all the time as quickly as they fell when it was over. At last she stood to rest a minute by the fire. Even the reiterated de- cision that " of course the boy was safe with THE squire's legacy. 309 Scot by now," failed to console her in the least, because her thoughts argued unconsciously against her words. " Mistress ! — oh, mistress !" The cry came from the top of the house, yet it reached Miss Win dish, clear and shrill. "What is it, Elizabeth !" This answer was a muffled whisper on the dark staircase, as Miss Michal groped her way up; oblivious of her candle, oblivious of the in- dignity of running at her servant's call, con- scious only of an overwhelming fear. "This way, mistress — up here, and to the back, please." It was easier now to grope her way, for there shone a strange, wide light from the open door of the servant's bed-room. Miss Michal went swiftly up the last few stairs, and, with her thoughts upon the missing child, entered the lighted room, with anxious, searching eyes, which finally settled upon the red panes of the lattice window. One minute afterwards, the silence of the old house was shattered by a shriek of terror, and the bailiff started from his chair upon the kitchen hearth, and let his pipe fall in atoms on the stone. 310 THE squire's legacy. Before he had reached the door, Miss Michal — her eyes dry and clear, as if they had not ever known the touch of tears — had turned the key outside, and had thrown the door open. " If you are a man," she said, looking straight into his face, with an appalling doubt, " go out and help to save us from ruin and death. See, this is the quickest way, through the back door. I will draw the bolts. Oh ! have pity on us ! You are strong, and can do much. I'm very sorry I've never spoken to you before — I was so angry. You won't remember it against me — you'll help them in this awful time, won't you? And you'll keep the master from rushing to his death, as he always does ? See how the wind brings the flame towards us, and — and how are one or two human hands to stay it t" Some answer the man made, which was en- tirely unintelligible to Miss Michal; but she thanked him for it with a humility which was most touching, and repeated her thanks absent- ly, even when she was left alone in the doorway — bathfed in the lurid light of that flame which swept from the Green Pits across the Winter sky. END OF THE SECOND VOLUME. CHAPTER I. IN that well-known fable of the Egyptian slave's, where the wind and the sunbringtheir little domestic differences to bear upon an inno- cent pedestrian, and contest the power of rob- bing him of his oater garment, the drcumstance of this enter garment being selected gives an un- &imes8 to the whole transaction. The reader would be leffc with a far keener appreciation of justice if the little wager had been laid upon a hat, for then the chances would have been equalized. Then the smile of congratulation on tiie roxmd sun-face when the unsuspecting traveller lifted his hat from his damp brow, would have had its counterpart in the boisterous buffo laughter of the nor'-easter when the beaver VOL. in. B 2 THE squire's legacy. went roUing and bumping along the road in advance of its owner, turning after eveiy halt, and starting a&esh, just at the moment when its hopeful pursuer was within an inch of grasp- ing it. This was something of Monsieur Philippe Sourdet's thought as, that evening, he was delayed, on his road from Minton to Eingswood, by constant pursuits of this article of his attire — chases of a most lengthy and tantalising de- scription. Certainly, these pursuits in them- selves obliged a very irregular course of pro- ceeding on Monsieur Sourdet's part ; but to any one who had deeply studied the phases of human intelligence, there would have been much that was suggestive in the fact that, even in pauses of the chase— even when Monsieur Sourdet's head was covered — ^his step was still irregular. And, though at times his huge frame was braced spasmodically to a backward angle, his normal bearing was one in which the head and shoulders moved decidedly in. advance. Beyond this, Monsieur Sourdet exhibited a strong inclination to hold converse with him- self on the smallest provocation, in a feeble, argumentative manner. Tet, though this con- THE squire's legacy. 3 verse was of a nature to have irritated Monsieur Sourdet from a fellow-creature, it was received from himself in a spirit of thoughtful and friend- ly sympathy. As Monsieur Sourdet's slouching step bore rather heavily upon him in the matter of weari- ness, he would now and then allow himself a few moments' halt against a gate or stile, or other available prop ; and at such times he would invariably appeal, on behalf of himself to that other self with whom he shared convivial ideas, and of whom he had evidently a fair appreciation. ''It's a stupid night — a black, blusterous, stupid night — confound it 1" The &ct that the circumstance had occurred once or twice before, was perhaps the reason of Monsieur Sourdet's not being surprised when that unsteady head-gear of his was whipped off while he said these words to himself, standing beside a gate which broke the long road-side hedge of the larch meadows. But perhaps it may have been that deficiency of energy accounted for the absence of surprise. " There's the river down there," he argued, as he climbed the gate with excessive caution, b2 4 THE squire's legacy. ^'and this fool of a -wind is beating straight towards it." Naturally the drift of such a thought was to quicken his steps, and so Monsieur Sourdet, starting with a plunge, ran down the sloping meadow which lay between the turnpike road and the river. If he had had the help of day- light, he might possibly have rescued his flying hat, but for a sudden decadence of the power of equipoise, and a final plunge, which, though intended to regain it, resulted only in a total overthrow. Monsieur Philippe, rising to his feet in the darkness, and applying slow and tender fiiction to one damaged shoulder, came to the conclusion that only idiotic fields ever sloped towards rivers, and only winds accursed ever blew so hard. Having decided thus, with evident satisfaction to himself he became aware — ^fornow and then, when the clouds were blown from the young moon's face, it was still light enoughfor him tosee — that he had reached that frail wooden bridge which crossed the river below the Green Pits* And there, on his right, were the lights in the fiGtrm. '^ I declare," said Monsieur Sourdet, with the Uvelieet surprise, ^ here I am." THE squire's legacy. 5 This fact appeared unanswerable by that other self to whom Monsieur Philippe discoursed; and so a heavy and profound silence dwelt round him, while he paused with one unsteady foot upon the unsteady bridge, and looked away to the farm, with a slowly-dawning steadiness in his vindictive eyes. " Ha I" he muttered then, the hard metallic anger of his voice giving it a sober ring which was startling after its late calm and ponder- ous intemperance, " he's up and about. I see lights burning, and — ^what's that 1 Music, I declare I Confound him I He takes it all easily, to be sure. Ah ! He wants a stronger touch before he's humbled into shape — a sharper touch, too — ^and he shall have it." This generous anticipation acted as a spur to Monsieur Sourdet, and he trod the swayiug planks with an airy confidence which was as un- expected as it was short-lived. *^Let me see," he ruminated; then pausing, with one hand upon the rail, as he turned his head slowly in the darkness, his coarse and grizzled locks blown upright on his head, " What do they call this precious, sportive breeze which blows from every quarter at once? East 6 THE squire's legacy. — north-east? I forget. Its touch isn't a caress, certainly; and, when a man's head's bare, and his limbs tired, he — sacri! — be qniet, you bully !" This command being disregarded by the un- ruly air, Monsieur Sourdet was obliged to con- tinue his courageous progress under difficulties r and, by this time, he had left the river behind him, and waa winding gradually round the hillock behind which lay the Green Pits — keep- ing to the pathway only during those few occasional moments when chance led him inta it. He had temporarily forgotten the vanished hat, the pursuit of which had originally lured him from the high-road. " Music !" he muttered again, in a tone which modulated from discontent to ferocity. " I hear a note or two now and then, when this vile wind pauses. Well, never mind," he added, soothing- ly ; " he'll try a different kind of music soon — a cowed and humble tune — ga ira ! Confound it all! How the old tongue slips out to-night, forgotten as I thought it I Hateful ! Tes, he'll tune another note soon. Ha I ha I And all this ugly English sangfroid of his, and of his old avocat — there they come again. Deuce THE SQXTIRE'S LEGAOY. 7 take the words I — a hideous language, which I never spoke from the time I was a schoolboy. Whew I This precious breeze will take me of its own accord to shelter against the walls of that rickety old farm, and leave me there a jelly. IHable I Who's to stand against it, even with all my strength and pluck ? What a fool the man is to live in such a shed, when, in that mansion over there " Though perfected possibly in Monsieur Sour- det's brain, the sentiment, as public property, was left incomplete ; for at that instant Philippe Sourdet's weighty form collapsed, and, without grace or dignity, sUpped down the grassy slope, until impeded by a high and firm obstruction, which Monsieur Sourdet — sending out one hand upon a cautious journey of discovery — found to be a wall. ^* It's a deuce of a night to be out on when a man's joints are tired," he muttered, rising with deliberation, and drawing one hand experi- mentally across his head, as if he fancied that, during this overthrow, fate might either have replaced his missing head-gear, or removed his head, and so prevented its need. '^ I begin to think I'd better go down to the house — an 8 THE squire's legacy. infernal spot, but a shelter of some sort — ^and see that young idiot again, before we strike the coup de grace. He'll come to his Benses when I tell him that, if he doesn't listen this time, his last chance is gone, and his ruin unfait aceompli, I'll venture it. An encounter may be worth a good deal, especially here, where he'll feel the force of what I threaten, and, I should think, appreciate, by force of contrast, what I promise. His insolence never hurts me — pooh, a bagatelle I But — ah, I never thought of that 1 — he may be prowling about now, as he did on that other night when our plans were laid. It would be just like him. Ay, forty to one he is. I shall see, at any rate, and we can have a rencontre out here if he is — ^it's sheltered. All right ; a few hours make no difference. I can spare them, with such a eoup in petto — Bah 1 How the words of those scamps and beggars in the Bnsh are turning up to-night. No, I'll leave the house alone at present — I'd leave it alone for ever if I'd a less stake upon it. There " — ^Mon- sieur Sourdet was cautiously feeling his way now along the wall — " ought to be a gate here, if I'm on the side I think. But it's too deuced dark to be sure where a man is." THE squire's LEQACT. 9 Perhaps it was owing as much to Monsieur Sourdet's mental duskiness as to the rather natural duskiness of nature at that hour, that both the gates in the wall surrounding Scot's stackyard so long eluded his groping fingers. Many a muttered curse had passed his lips, before his heavy left hand at last fell upon the bar of a closed gate ; and, wheeling round, he brought his right quickly into the same position, and grasped the bar, as if he found the support grateftd after his lengthened search. " Locked 1" he muttered, presently, giving the gate a feeble shake. '' The fool is careful of his grain, then.' I like to see that. Well, well " — Monsieur Sourdet whispered this with a slow, unctuous smile, as he circumspectly mounted to the first bar of the gate, holding tightly to the top one with both hands, and his smile broaden- ing a little in the darkness, when he felt the wood crack under his weight. "Well, well, it's safe for this night, whether I find him here or not; safe for to-night, unless the wind brings down the whole rotten concern. Gently, gently " — This soothing advice was proffered to himself, as he warily stepped from bar to bar in his ascent and descent — " Gently, gently, for 10 THE squire's legacy. in this infernal blackness a fava pas would be unpleasant." Having accomplished a safe passage, Monsieur Sourdet's next step was a mental effort to recall the position of either of the barns which the yard held ; but the mental strength avail- able to-night proved inadequate to the task, and so he continued his groping career, still discoursing with himself, in that disjointed but candid manner which was compounded of easy fraternal sympathy with his own woes, and dogged malice against the fancied woes of some one else, on whom he bestowed no distinctive name, but a catalogue of general epithets, less varied and original than contemptuous and menacing. But when at last Monsieur Sourdet found the door of one old barn, and, putting his fingers through a hole in it, and raising the wooden bolt, discovered that it yielded to his touch, his broken words, both of encourage- ment and menace, dwindled into a muttering of supreme satisfaction. He turned and bolted the creaking door behind him, and then, in the shelter, he paused a moment, searching in every pocket (vainly, and for the twentieth time that night) for a box of fusees which he had ex- THE squire's legacy. 11 hausted long before he left the turnpike road. *' The old walls bend and rattle like a sail at sea, it seems to me," he said, giving up the search with an acceleration of moodiness, '' but fitill they keep the infernal blast outside, and that's something. Now I've only to find my way to the loft, and I must be a fool if I can't make myself comfortable till morning, when I shall be on the spot to give that fellow his last chance. Well, considering all, it couldn't fall out better. Here I am ready — for, after all, it's a good pull from Wakeley's cottage down here ; and I declare, if I'd remembered, in walking out from Minton, that 1 must pass so near the farm before reaching Eingswood, I might have planned to do exactly what I'm doing now through chance —just chance. Just through the wind bluster- ing in this direction, and — ah, yes, I forgot that;" and Monsieur Sourdet raised his hand to his uncovered head, with a sudden recollec- tion of that one freak of the wind which, impor- tant as he had felt it at the time, had glided from the slippery surface of his memory. " I forgot that — quite forgot it." By the time the words had been drawn out sufficiently to suit the speaker's languid and 1 2 THE squire's legacy. meditative mood, his hands, busy at their old groping task, had guided him to a ladder which rested against an open trap-door in the ceiling of the barn, and Monsieur Sourdet, his feet mounting cautiously close behind his hands,* chuckled pleasantly as he ascended. J»t Jhi. he.;. .w...h, f^ appeared i. the opening of the upper floor, a glimmer of moonlight, pale and fleeting, fell across it ; but there were no eyes in that dark upper room to be startled by such a sight, and the faint ray melted into darkness once again. " This," said Monsieur Philippe, as he stepped from the ladder, and threw himself at full length upon the corn ; ^* this is comfort on such a night. This indeed is luxury on such a night, compared — compared ^' the words were growing broken and indistinct, the tone lower and more husky — "with an existence at — the mercy of that diable of ''* The muttered imprecations grew here so weak and slow that fortunately half their venom was lost in their maudlin impotence ; and that fickle comforter which flies the pillow of the brave and generous crept up and closed his heavy eyes, making the shelter into utter calm THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 15 for him, and deepening the darkness. He had thrown himself upon his back, with his linked hands beneath his head, and once or twice a pale^ faint ray of light fell across his upturned face, so gently and so swiftly that it might have seemed, from the surrounding darkness, like the warning and awakening touch of a pitying hand. But, unwarned and undisturbed, he slept on ; and in one dark corner of the building, a large black cat, his only comrade there, stood back against the creaking wall, alert and wakeful, glaring from side to side, restless and intent, warned as its sleeping companion could not be. Then sudden- ly it started, and with its head raised, and its side against the wall, it crept round and round the loft. The heavy sleep, against whose approach Philippe Sourdet had for hours fought as surlily as he had fought against the furious north- easter, had laid a firm, revengeful hold upon him now. So, bound in the fetters of his own in- temperance, he lay, while the wind cried round the old building with a restless, rousing voice. Motionless still, he lay wrapped in this heavy slumber; when a light fell upon his sleeping face, which was no ray from the young moon. The great black cat, its eyes aflame in the 14 THE squire's legacy. darkness, suddenly stopped its silent creeping round and round, and — darting across the sleep- ing man with a touch which was too light to awake him — disappeared. One moment afterwards, Philippe Sourdet stirred in his sleep, and a muttered imprecation tottered from his lips. But his heavy eyelids were not lifted until his eyes opened in a sudden smart and terror, when the flames had glided up, and-from beyond his head, and feet, and hands — seemed to meet in a red canopy above him. 15 CHAPTER n. ON many and many a Summer evening, as Anna Wakeley sat sewing in the window of her cottage on the slope, had she raised her eyes to let them rest yearningly upon the sunset glory in the western sky. But to-night, while the Winter sky flamed crimson in the west, hours after sunset time, she stood before her cottage window, with strained and feverish gaze, her fingers tightly locked, her face white as death, and touched to anguish every now and then, when the light sped upwards with a fiercer glare, or, on the strong wings of the wind, swept toward the timbered walls of the old farm, and the long thatched buildings on its western side. For long had the neglected fire been dead in the cottage grate, yet Oliver sat beside it, with 16 THE squire's legacy. m a pipe in his mouth, holding his dirty news- paper to catch the light of a candle which flared beside him on the table ; but his eyes, though even steadier than usual to-night, were never for one minute fixed steadily upon the columns. There was a new restlessness in their glance. « Oliver !" His wife's call was a perfect cry of anguish ; but Oliver paused deliberately before he lowered the paper and looked across the kitchen, gather- ing a dead, unnatural sleepiness into his gaze. " What is it ye're bothering about ?" he asked, heavily. « Can't ye leave a man to read his paper after a 'ard day's work t Ye're staring yersdlf enough for 'alf a dozen on us. Ah ! What d'ye start for f " he added, with an eager, expectant change of tone. " Is it the fiirriner ye see coming?" Oliver had risen in the excitement of this hope, but one glance into his wife's face — with- out one from the window — showed him that there was no sign upon the slope of the man whom he had expected ; and he dropped again, heavily and sulkily, into his seat. " How the flames roar and rush I" — the words were a very whisper as they came from Anna's ; THE SQUIRB^S LBGAOY. 17 lips^ while her locked hands rose and fell before her in a measured, resUess misery — ** And the ground rises so steeply between the riok-yard and the river. Oh, Oliver, in the name of pity, go and help ! Can any man see sueh danger and destruction, without offering the little aid he can ? For it's little that even the strongest of us can do at such a time." 'Tou'd best shut that shutter/' Wakeley muttered, refilling his pipe. 'Tve told ye before ; and, if ye don't do it soon, I'll come and do it myself. A nice hour this is for decent women to be up and staring about 'em." *' I am going," said Anna, turning to face her husband, her look firm in all its agony and pallor* " If you can bear to stay here and see the ynnd swaying that flame straight to Oh,, go!" she broke 0% pleadingly. "And go quickly, Oliver. The stacks are gone — ^nothing can save them ; but life may be in danger, and we can all help there, perhaps." **/ got" echoed Wakeley, with an attempt at scorn in his savage voice. '* Not 1 1 And what d'ye mean by taking that tone on I Te say the stacks is gone — jest as if I cared. It isn't me— it's the furriner as wanted 'em VOL. in. c 18 THE squiih:'s legacy. bumed. He'll be glad o' this accident — eht" The last word was uttered so sharply, after a pause, that its own suspicions motive was laid bare at a glance. ^^ Yes, he will be glad," said Anna, quite quietly; but the fingers with which she was trying to close the windowHshutter, shook so helplessly that she was obliged to give up the attempt, in spite of the strain she put upon herself. And so the red light still glided in, and laid a flush of its own colour upon the woman's pallid face, and gave a flash of its own savagery to the man's sullen scowl. But Oliver, watching suspiciously, saw one purpose strong in his wife's face; so he rose from his chair and threw off his coat with clumsy haste. "Ye're not going; and so 1 tell ye, oncet for all I" he said, moving about noisily while he spoke. "Ye'll stay at 'ome like a respectable woman, and the wife of a respectable man — so I tell ye, oncet for all. Why, of course," he added, with a crafty lowering of his rough tone, "we're a respectable couple enough, if folks only leave us alone. We're not fond o' prowling about at nights ; and so let THE squire's legacy. 19 them as is fond o' that sort o' thing, go and 'elp now. We don't know anything about what's goin' on at the Gfreen Pits. Why should we 1 Come away now, and shut that shutter. D'ye hear t" This was a usual conclusion to Oliver's ad- dresses to his wife, and perhaps it was because its frequency had robbed it of all interrogatory properties that it generaUy, as now, won no reply. A pause followed his words, which was 130 marked and so emphatic that it seemed to him, in his concealed wrath, to be of untold length. Yet it was only one minute after the utterance of his rough words that, watching furtively from his position on the hearth, he saw his wife fall on her knees beside the window with a cry, and cover her eyes with her locked fingers. " If you don't think it's bed-time, 1 do," mutter- ed Oliver, stirring uneasily. " Come along, girl. What's that theer light at the Green Pits to do along of us t It's out o' the way o' 'arm to folks. Come along, d'ye 'ear? And jest put that shutter up, that a man's 'ouse may look respectable this time o' night." "You can put the shutter up when you c2 20 THE squire's LEGAOY. choose/' said Anna, speaking calmly, when she rose and turned her face from the glass to which it had been so near. ** I am going." " No, ye ain't," roared Wakeley, both face and voice betraying a keen and evident fear, though rough and authoritative as ever ; '' 'less ye mean ye're going to bed." "Even a woman," resumed Anna, quietly^ though with intense trembling, *^can help in the carrying of the water round that hill." "No, she can't, and no, she won't," roared the man; "woman's dooty's to stay in-doors,. and when she don't know it of 'erself, her 'us- band must teach her. Fll have no gallivanting down there, d'ye 'ear t No more I'll have any sniv'ling up 'ere, and so I tell ye oncet for alL Remember, as we two are 'ere at 'ome all this night, and have been 'ere at 'ome since dark. Ye'U maybe have to tell that after, and it's well to be ready — ^women are sich fools sometimes, if they^re took by surprise. We've Hn in out of the wind, and Tve bin reading you the paper, whiles ye sewed that theer sUrt o' mine. I ain't fond o' being out o' nights, when theer's a decent fire, and supper, and bed at 'ome. That's the truth, as you'll maybe have to tell 'em some time." THE squire's LEGAOT. 21 He had laid his heavy hand upon his wife's shoulder, and as he spoke he tightened his strong fingers, with a grip which at any other time would have brought a cry from her lips ; but now, without even a struggle, she moved from his grasp, as if her strength were really the greater of the two. '* If I am asked," she said, coldly and dis- tinctly, **I shall tell them that you were out to-night so late that the fire must have broken out — though I had not seen it, having the shutters closed — ^before you came hurrying in from — ^the Ghreen Pits." "I — say," whispered Oliver, his hard lips, drawn back from his teeth, as he lowered his savage fkce to his wife's, ^* if ye tell any lies like them, ye'U repent it— d'ye 'ear t Hullo 1" The exclamation followed the threat so rapid- ly that it was little wonder Anna's startled gaze rested on her husband's &ce so curiously for the first moments. '* It frightened you," she said then, her lips stiff with fear, though she spoke coldly. ^*I have been expecting it before. I knew that, as soon as anyone could reach Eingswood, they would ring the alarm bell. It is no use, of 22 THE squire's legacy. course, but I knew some villager, in his fright, would do that, to hasten the engines from Minton. In this wind, the sound, loud as it is, scarcely travels beyond us. It — ^it needn't alarm you." "What d'ye mean?" grumbled Wakeley^ making a surly effort to regain such ease as this sudden summons had robbed him of. "It was yerself that was frightened. Gome from that door." Again he seized her roughly, pulling her back into the cottage, and holding her there, while her breath came in gasps through her teeth. " Listen, Oliver," she said ; then, with a quiet- ness which, in an instant, roused his worst suspicions, and made him feel her to be crafty as himself. "If you and I keep away now, from such a scene as that, people will say — they are sure to say it — that we had a motive in keeping away. Everybody is there, and if we are not, we — shall be suspected." " What d'ye mean ?" inquired Wakeley, with an ugly scowl ; but still he slackened his hold upon her arm. " I mean that anyone who keeps away from THE squire's leqagy. 23 the Oreen Pits to-night will be suspected of " *' Fool I" shouted Wakelej, pushing her from him. ^^You don't know what ye're talking about. Go wheer ye like; I'm not stopping ye. Of course all the women uU be there, so you'll never be content to stop away. Then go. Am I 'olding ye? But ye'U go without me ; I've 'ad a 'ard day's work, and I'm never one as goes after sights and crowds." '^ K the men miss you/' said Anna, quietly, as she drew back the bolt of the cottage door, " they'll say, * Why did Wakeley stay away, when he might have helped, like all of us ? fle would see the glare plainly from his cottage, and he'd have come, if he'd known nothing about the fire before. He'd have come down here to find out what caused it — if he hadn't known already.' " Then she passed through the door, and closed it after her ; but, before she had reached the foot of the hill, she heard her husband's step behind her, slouching as usual, but so hurried that he reached her readily, in spite of her great haste. '' Look 'ere, Anna," he said, with an attempt 24 THE sqihre's legagt. at STirly indifference, "I know nothing about why ye're poking yerself down there, or what ye're going to do ; but it may be jest as well to tell ye, onoet for all, as your evidence couldn't do me no 'arm in any comrt of jestice in the world — d'ye see? If I'd done all the things as ye seem to think I should enjoy to do, ye couldn't get me into prison ; I'd have ye remember that. Why, even " — with a hard, forced laugh Wakeley added this, as he slouched on at her side — *^ if I'd bin and set fire to those ricks myself, Uke sich an idjet as I should never be, you couldn't tell of it. A man's wife ain't allowed to tell any lies ag^in him, to get him into trouble, so — ^as women alius think they tell the truth — they ain't allowed to speak at all. Lawyers knows best what's fair and jest to a man ; so that's law — d'ye see ?" *'I see," said Anna, with intense quietness, while she hurried on, her hands clasped under her shawl, and her eyes fixed upon the distant glare which reddened the night sky. "I don't believe ye're listening," grumbled Oliver, still keeping beside her, though with difficulty; "but I'll make ye presently, I can tell ye. Not as ye've less sense than other THE squire's LEOACT. 25 women," he added, with a change of tone, as he looked askance into her white fisuse — '' in- deed, ye've plenty when ye like to use it ; bo there's no sich need to din a simple fact in yer ears a 'nnderd times, before ye see the jestice of it. Go along, girl, if ye choose, and I'll come too; and we'll 'elp 'em if we can. I dorsay some clumsiness of that dwarfs done it, bat likely the engines uU save a good bit* Come along. It's a good law as leaves 'nsband and wife so comfortable together that they can't say a word ag'in each other 'thoat it's being made jest so little pf, as all lies ought to be." After this expression of conjugal apprecia- tion, Oliver Wakeley relapsed into silence, and, though his wife was in reality painfully and keenly alive to his every movement, she had, to all appearance, lost all thought of him before they reached the people who stood in a doable line round the rising ground between the Green. Pits and the river ; a crowd with mixed mo- tiveSj and offering varied suggestions, yet all united in one present, active need — that of fill- ing and passing those vessels, the contents of which, heavy though they might be, seemed so 26 THE squire's legacy. terribly impotent in quelling the fariouB flame which rode on the ^wind above, strong and mighty in its defiance of such feeble efforts to stay its course. Without uttering a word to anyone, Anna Wakeley took her place close to the river, and filled the pail she had carried from home, pass- ing it on through the ready hands, as she took the next one which came up to her empty. One or two people had time to notice the quiet, ceaseless activity of the woman, and the one low, terrified glance she gave up at the blaze, as it swept onwards, and at last caught the farm in its hot embrace ; but none knew what deep and wordless prayer the sad eyes lifted, high beyond that red flame in the sky. Most quick and most imtiring, among so many who were prompt and active, she seemed to have a strength to-night which was more than natural, yet did not seem like the strength of excitement which helped so many ; because she was utterly and curiously quiet. But, imconsdous as she seemed of aught be- yond her ceaseless and silent employment, no angle word was uttered in her hearing which her mind did not grasp and hold ; and, when THE squire's legacy. 27 the fire-engine came dashing through the park from the stone bridge, and the line was broken in this new excitement, she carried the water past the gaps herself, and, by her silent example, drew the crowd presently to their steady work again. *^ She's right," said one man, speaking quickly at his task ; '* our help is wanted here as much as ever. They will play the engine on the house, of course." "The west wall is falling." " The roof is open to the sky." "It's to be hoped they've saved what's in those rooms." " Of course they'd try ; but then,' you see, so much help was wanted here." So, as the night went on, did the words pasi^ to and fro — ^for, in the relief of having aid from Minton, the busy water-bearers could afford to talk a little more frequently — and Anna listened, still in silence, feeling each word sink into her memory, engraved there for her life. " Pray God there will be no one hurt 1" " I wouldn't answer for that ; but the Uvea are all spared. Miss Windish is in the garden — 28 THE squire's LEQAGT. joTi can see hei; plaia enough, eyerj now and then in the glare. She's in the house again now, saving what she can. And the joung Squire — ^it's plain enough to see him all the time — ^he's on the wall now, using the hose against the barn. Black and grimed as he is, I'd swear to his figure anywhere, even by such fiendish light as this." ^'But I saw the young Squire pass to the house long ago, with a child in his arms." *^ That was long ago, as you say. He's been 3.1 work ever since, working like half-a-dozen men. See him now !" But, though Anna stood nearest of all to the speaker, her eyes dropped lower, instead of being lifted to that one figure, standing out dark and distinct against the lurid back- ground. " Tou mean the child he brought with him from London. I couldn't understand, Liath, how the young Squire found him. That reminds me — where's Liath now I" '^ At the house. He's been throwing against the west wall — throwing like a giant, instead of the dwarf he is." "And Elizabeth r THE squire's LBGAGT. 29 *^ She's in the fine here ; higher up, dose to the yard." ** Then who ii it that's helping Miss Windish, carrying all the heaviest things, and mnning backwards and forwards so fast t" " That's Miss Egerton." «« Miss Egerton I" The exclamation came from more than one of the fisteners, but still Anna, though her eyes softened^ did not pause. Long ago she had recognised the slight, darkly-clad figure, work* ing so swiftly and untiringly, yet always seem- ing near Miss Windish in her shrinking panic. *^ Fancy Miss Egerton being here, and work- ing like that ; she might have sent a servant instead." " That wouldn't be very like her," some one answered from the line — a young man who wore the Egerton livery — ^^^Sbe aeked the women to come and help, just as she came her- self; and the Colonel sent us. We've left the Dower House empty, except for the house- keeper ; and I'm sure, if the Colonel isn't work- ing like a regular soldier '^ The suddenness of the interruption attracted everyone's attention to Colonel Egerton him- 30 THE squire's legacy. fielf, who came hurrying up in his shirt-Bleeves. *^ You may as well stop this useless labour now," he said, hardly raising his tones; though, after he had passed, there was no one who had missed the words. " The fire in the yard mast spend itself, and we have the engine at the house. You have worked capitally throughout, but it would be useless to waste more time and strength ; break up now, and, if any of you can give assistance at the house, I'm sure you will do so." Colonel Egerton addressed no one in particu- lar, as he passed along the line, but yet, almost unconsciously to himself, he gave a kind glance to Anna Wakeley when, in the trembling light, he caught sight of her white, anxious face. "Where is Oliver! I have not seen him here." The woman's eyes dropped swiftly, and her lips grew so tight that it seemed as if her few words could hardly pass them. " I think, sir, that Oliver is at the Green Pits." "Is hef That is well; he is strong, and owes a debt of gratitude to Mr. Monkton. He certainly should be helping." THE SQUntB'S LEGACY. 31 The officer had passed on without waiting for any reply to his words, but afterwards he could recall the pallor of Anna's face and the quick heaving of her breast. The Winter dawn was still two hours distant, when an awed, hushed whisper, flying among the scattered groups, told — even before the words were distinguishable — ^that amid the lurid horror of this night, brooded the grim, gaunt presence of death. Anna Wakeley left her work the instant the meaning of this whisper reached her, and, shrinking against the wall of the stack-yard, and, looking across the smoulder- ing ruins with wide, glazed eyes, saw none of the forms around her, nor the lights darting here and there as the greater light failed. She saw only in imagination, with an awful vivid- ness, that one spot of blackness which, while others lowered their tones to call it death, seemed to shriek out another name to her, in such shrill and piercing tones that, though both her hands were on her ears, the fancied cry, and &ncied scene, drew her face into hard and rigid lines, and stiffened the lids above her fixed eyes. Suddenly this forced tension of every nerve 32 THE squire's legacy. "was Inroken, and Anna sprang forward. Yet the startled surprise was only cansed by the utterance of her own name by Liath, who, small and quiet, had come up to her, there in the shadow of the wall against which she stood in a strained attitude of intense and frightened watchfulness. " I didn't hear you, Liath," she faltered, try- ing nervously to account for the start she had given 'f " I didn't know you were there." "I dursay not, Mrs. Wakeley," returned Liath, in his slow, matter-of-fact way. ^'I've on'y bin lookin' round." ^^Yon have been doing more than looking round to-night/' said Anna, seizing, with an effort, on any words which might sound natural and easy, as she walked slowly on at Liath's side, over the scattered ashes. "I s'pose you're going home now, Mrsi Wakeley!" Anna knew that Liath was a man of very few and slow words, yet to-night even that curt speech seemed laden with meaning, and even with suspicion. " Yes, I am going home," she said, hurrying in her assent. **But — ^but, Liath" — turning THE squire's liEGAOT. 33 Tvistfullj to him in the gloom, and dropping her voice, even low as it had been — *^ where — where have you — where is it lying ?" ? ^^ Dunna 70U go to see that, Mrs. Wakelej,'' said Liath, solemnlj. ^* It's no sight fiir them as ain't forced into seeing it." •« But— I must." ^*In course," mused Liath, gravely, as he walked on, ^^in course if any other woman wur to ask it, it would be out of cur'osity, and I'd know it ; but it's di£ferent in course for you, and as he lived at your cottage " ** Not for that reason," put in Anna, in a tone quickened by real horror, *' he never really lived with us. He used our cottage when he chose, but he was always a stranger, an utter stranger." " You've o'erdone yourself to-^iight, Mrs. Wakeley," said Liath, with real sympathy in his hard, honest face. ^^ Hadna you better go 'ome and see no other bad sights this night ?" But, save for a shiver which passed through the woman's dirinking form, there was no sign that she had heard this proposal. She kept close to the old man's side, until, leaving the rick- yard, and turning aside from the busy scene be- VOL. III. D 34 THE squire's legacy. {ore the smouldering wall of the old farm, they stopped beside a low cart-shed, in which a group of people were gathered, barely dis- tinguishable by the light of the lanterns which moved slowly to and fro, and rose and fell, in the gloom which Anna's searching eyes pierced so eagerly. '' It's theer," whispered Liath, making a stop. ** I'm not goin' in ag'in, and you won't neether, if you take my advice, Mrs. Wakeley. Ha I theer's Oliver. I thought he wur gone — not as he'd be tired of his work, for it ain't much he's done; but, though I've seed 'im about 'ere and there, I missed 'im later. Shall I call 'im .to ye, Mrs. Wakeley ?" **No," whispered Anna, eagerly, "don't call him — please. Let me go to him." And so Liath stood, and let Anna pass on alone to the shed ; but, if she had turned, and there had been light enough to see, she would have read a keen and shrewd suspicion on the old man's face— and even in his attitude— which, in her timidity, might have turned her aside from that charred, disfigured object upon which those who came to recognise it could only bear one glance in the lantern light. THB SQRIUE'S legacy. 35 "That theer's creepin' work for Wakeley," mattered Liath, standing still to watch the heavy figure of the poacher as it moved stealthily in the obscurer parts of the shed ; "creepin* work — creepin' work; but then he's used to creepin', that's true," As he spoke to himself, even more slowly than was his wont, his gaze grew more and more intent and shrewd, and it was evident that a new determination was forming itself in the old man's mind. Half an hour afterwards, when, covered, at last, from scrutinising eyes and glimmering light, that blackened, crumbling sometJiing which was all that remained of Philippe Sourdet, had been carried away, Liath, coming from his distant work, entered the shed alone, and turned the light of his lantern suddenly and fully upon the burly figure of Oliver Wakeley, on his knees among the ashes which had drift- ed even here, or had fallen from that burden which had so lately been carried away. "You, is it, Wakeley?" questioned Liath, just as if he had made the discovery only when he spoke. " Is yer wife gone home her lone, then?" d2 36 THE squire's legacy. ^' She's able to take care of herself," muttered Wakeley, shuffling to his feet. " Fd dropped an old pocket-book, and was lookin' for it." "Feelin' for it, ye mean," corrected Liath, dryly. "Yes, feelin' for it — course I do," blurted Wakeley, who had never been accustomed to stand correction of any sort from such as Liath. "And ye think ye dropped it 'ere, eh?" queried Liath, raising the lantern as Oliver rose, so that the light might still reach his face» " Then ye wur in 'ere afore, I suppose — come in to see the last of yer lodger, eh?" *'I saw him — ^yes,*' returned Wakeley; and Liath smiled to see the huge bully glance around him with fear of which a woman might have been ashamed — ^but then it was only mo- mentary — " I saw him after they put him here, not afore." "No?" Liath uttered the monosyllable interrogative- ly, having an inexplicable conviction that some question important to Wakeley lay behind this speech — a conviction which was strengthened the next moment by Oliver's ungainly attempt at conciliation. mmu^Kmmmammmmmmmmmm THE SQUIRE'S LEGAOY. 37 ^^ Yes, it was a frightful sight, and I don't wonder you kep' away; but they say it was you as found the body first — all that was left of it. Wheer was it t I didn't 'ear." ^^Didna ye?" inquired Liath, in his slowest tones, as he unflinchingly returned Oliver's unsteady gaze. ** And ye want to know ?" " Course I do." *^ In course ye do," assented Liath, in Oliver's pause. *' Well ?" ** Mr. Sourdet and me was so well beknown to each other," continued Wakeley, with an attempt at his usual bluster, ^^ that course I feel interest in anything about him. I should think you'd understand that sort o' thing, ^thout explaining." " Ay, I understand," replied Liath, grimly ; ^'you was good friends, 1 know — all on us know. Well, come along : I'll show ye wheer I fust fund the drenched cinders of what used to be yer friend. Come along." Judging by the scowl upon Wakeley's face, he would have liked to resent the rough command; but evidently a second thought stirred him, and he willingly and promptly followed Liath from the shed, his heavy, 38 THE squire's legacy. slouching step never quite gaining upon the little old man who led him* They passed through the burnt and broken gateway, and entered the Green Pits; but half-way across the yard Liath stopped. ** Theer ain't much left o' the old bams now," he said, pointing straight before him, '^but it was in that un, among the ashes theer, inside those tumblin' bits o' walls, as I fund 'im. Theer's some o' hie tatters about theer now, I dursay, lyin* in the wet. You'd like anything as reminds yer of him, I dursay." ** Are 3'ou coming on V* inquired Wakeley, his rough and surly tone hiding the real anxiety which caused the question. " I'm not comin' in jest now," replied Liath, very slowly ; " not jest now. Ill see ye agin presently, and, if yeVe fund any remember-me sort o' property belongin* to the breeved relics, I'll in course be glad to 'ear on it." If Wakeley had desired an explanation of this somewhat curious remark, he would have failed to obtain it, for Liath had left him hastily, as if conscious of having wasted quite time enough in idle words. ^^fle's off to slave agin, as he's slaved all THE SQUtRE'S LEGACY. 39 night," thought Oliver, with a grin of contempt for the old man who could toil unnecessarily for others. " He's safe away now." But, from the darkness near, with a grim satisfaction on his face, Liath had paused to watch Wakeley begin his search among the soaked and blackened refuse of the fire. « I see." These two words were all Liath thought necessary, as he turned away to make up, in harder work, for those lost minutes ; but the tone in which he said them was replete with meaning. 40 CHAPTER III. THE wintry sun shone ruthlessly next morn- ing on the blackened opening in the roof of the Black Birches, and on the wall which, on the western side of the house, stood bare and gaunt upon the upper story. True it was but an attic room which was destroyed, but the old farm looked a dismal dwelling now; scarred and discoloured, the windows smoke-begrimed and broken here and there, while still the water-stains ran from every ledge, and the garden-beds had lost all form, and were trodden into a muddy plain. It would have been a sad night's work, even if the master of the farm had been able at once to rebuild and beautify, . and to replace the stock which he had lost ; but, his circumstances being such as they were, there lay a heavy cloud of hopelessness upon the house, which THE squire's legacy. 41 deepened a hundredfold this outward disfigure- ment upon which the sun shone so mockingly this morning. At Christmas, ready money had been so un- obtainaUe that Scot had let his insurance lapse ; and now, at one blow, was swept from him the greater part of his means, both for present and future existence, for himself and for those who were dependent on him. " What would be done now ?" This was the thought which was perplexing Miss Windish so mournfully, as she looked out upon the trampled garden, where the glisten- ing of the sunshine on the little pools of collect- ed water really hurt her eyes, now that they were so strained and stiff from smoke and sleep- lessness. '* What would be done now ?" " Please " — Miss Michal turned swiftly round at this meek summons from a childish voice — " please, are you crying V " Crying 1" she exclaimed, with a voice of most unnatural hilarity, as she advanced to the little bed where the child had risen eagerly from his pillow. ** What should any person cry about!" • 42 THE squire's legacy. ^' I saw a tear," the little fellow said, raising his head to touch Miss Michal's cheek, iu that slow, wistfiil way peculiar to him, and which told that even from babyhood he had been the Uttle companion, or comforter, of a sorrowing heart. " A tear 1" echoed Miss Michal again, cheer- fully ; and then she paused, for her vocabulary of cheerful observations had not been widened by a long experience. " I — I don't know what could have put such a thought into your head, my dear." Then she seated herself by the side of the bed, and, with a clever side movement, drew her hand experimentally across her eyes. "After that sleep," she observed, pleased to find no watery trace — for her misery just now was too deep and real to be properly relieved by its usual vent — " you'll soon be well again, and running about." " Am I ill, then?" asked the boy, gently link- ing his hands before him, as he always did when this sad, unchildlike earnestness fell upon him. " Shall I die-like father?" " Die like father f Heaven forbid ?" Miss Michal uttered the words unthinkingly. THE squire's legacy. 4^ "with a shuddery and, a moment afterwards, wonid of course have given much to be able to recall them. The child's eyes were fixed upon her, so wide, and awed, and wondering, that she hid her face on his, and kissed him, as, through all her life, she had never kissed a child before. ^^ I think," she said, presently, when she had retaken her seat beside the bed, and had ran-^ sacked her mind for what might be a pleasant and successful train of thought to obliterate the present one, ^' I never finished quite all about Jack and the Giants, did I ?" ** Oh, Fm so glad 1" cried Willy, unlinking hia feverish little hands. ^* I was afraid there was no more giants. Oh, please to tell it I Oh, please." So Miss Michal— stepping very slowly and warily, because this portion of Jack's adventures was composed as she went on, she being per* fectly aware that the real narrative had been completed long ago — was leading an original and rather weakly giant into a dilemma over which her eyes grew very round, though there were various means of escape evident, when the opening of the door interrupted her. *^ Which is the awfuUest, please f asked the 44 THE squire's legacy. •child, anxiously laying his hot little fingers upon Miss Michal's as she rose. '^A giant, or — a fire ?" Whether it was the memory evoked by this question, or the pitiful earnestness of the pale little face, Miss Michal could not have told, but her only answer had been a few slow and quiet tears, when Doris Egerton came up to her. " I don't think it matters a bit, Willy," she said, brightly, as she set down upon the bed a little breakfast tray which she had carried *^ what sort of a giant it is, so long as there is a Jack to kill him." " But Jack's so little," mused the child, with that pitifulness so prompt in the nature of some children. "But so brave, dear," Doris answered, her dreamy eyes bright with some thought not ex- pressed by her words, ^' that the giants cannot do him any harm — they never will." " Then he's fighting now /" questioned Willy, his eyes widening with surprise. " Yes." " What— please ?" " Yes," repeated Doris, less dreamily, " he is fighting now— and beating all the giants too." THE squire's legacy. 45 'Tin 80 glad," breathed the child, with a happy sigh. '* I wish he'd come." "Who— Jack?" The little fellow's laugh was good to hear^ when Doris asked him this question with such bright, grave eyes, '' Oh, no ! But he said he'd come soou» Didn't you know I meant Mr. Monkton f " **How could IT" smiled Doris, with an in- voluntary kiss upon the questioning face* "Now come and eat your breakfast." " I — please I don't want it." " While you eat that egg," remarked Doris, coolly, as she opened it, and doubled together a very shaving of bread and butter, " I'm going to tell you about the little chickens ; and, while you drink the coffee, you shall guess what Monarch has just brought in in his mouth. But, if you do nothing, why of course we shall have nothing to do, and we must both go away." " Oh, no — please, no I" the boy cried, in a nervous tremor, while two spots of hectic colour burnt in his cheeks. "Only — ^he said he'd come." "And has he ever," asked Doris, gently, a& she held the cup to Willy's lips, " said he would do anything and not done it I" 46 THE squire's legacy. « No." " Then you know that he will come, dear, don't you ? Miss Windish," the girl added, looking brightly up as she knelt beside the bed to help the child, " breakfast is only waiting for you. Elizabeth went to fetch Mr. Monkton before I came up, and papa is there. Everyone else is gone home." ^^ I suppose so," said Miss Michal, pathetically. She had herself witnessed the departure of most of their neighbours when the firemen left, but she had known that Colonel Egerton would be stanch to his old friend, and she had even guess- ed that Doris would be so. *^ It is a shame," she continued, rousing herself suddenly, *^ that you should have exerted yourself all night long for us, Miss Egerton. Since daybreak — when the child awoke so ill and feverish, and I came to him — I have stayed here and left everything to you. It was a shame to do so, and I'm very sorry." '* I am very glad. But I will wait ^vith Willy now, if you will go down, please, Miss Windish," said Doris, for she fancied that the child, in his acute, nervous timidity, was not fit to be left. *^No, indeed," asserted Miss Michal, with mild THE squire's LEaACY. 47 energy. ^AU this night yon have taken no minute's rest, nor in any single matter spared yourself, or seemed even to think of yourself. I am not such a useless block as to let you work on now while I rest." " I will rest presently," pleaded Doris, laying her gentle hand upon Miss Michal's. ^* Please go and see whether Elizabeth and I have managed respectably downstairs. If you will not, I shall fancy you are afraid of seeing the blunders I have made." « Oh, here he is !" The glad exclamation came from the child, after he had gently and obediently taken his breakfast under Doris's guidance, and Miss Michal turned to meet Scot with anxious scrutiny. But some moments had passed after the child's greeting before Doris rose to her feet, and lifted an unclouded face to Scot. " You are laughing," he said, gravely, as he looked down upon her. " You may not think so, because you hear no sound, but I can see' it in your eyes. I don't think it at all fair. My damaged appearance ought to strike you in a tragic, rather than a comic light. The man all tattered and torn ought to inspire melancholy rather than mirth. Miss Egerton." 48 THE squire's legacy. "I do feel melancholy, for you have an enormous black on your face, Mr. Monkton." fiis laugh vfSLB echoed by a bright little treble from the bed, but Doris's face was as demure as her words had been. ** I thought you'd come," whispered the child, presently, when Scot — standing at a respectful distance from the little snowy bed — began a solemn discourse with its occupant. '^ Scot, my dear,'' whispered Miss Michal, *' I wish we could get him to lie still for a little while. He is so feverish and excited that I be- gin to think he ought to be left alone." Scot, too, had seen this need, and so his disr course gradually drifted into a promise that, if Willy would lie quite still. Monarch should come up and sit with him. For this arrangement the child quietly whispered his thanks, and perhaps fancied that no one saw how hard it was to him to see Scot leave the room again, even though he went to fetch Monarch. " Will — please, will Liath come up presently, do you think f he inquired, as Doris and Miss Michal stood waiting for Scot's return; (( Very soon," promised Miss Windish, readily; " he cannot be long, for he only went to Comely Place." THE squire's LEGAOT. 49 « To Comely Place !" Doris found heredf repeating the words in a perplexity which, though she herself was quite unconsciom of the fact, had a shadow of dis- appointment upon it. How hurriedly Liath must have been dispatched to Comely Place, while still bis master continued his night's labour in the dawn ! And yet had not Scot himself been there last night ? The clearness of the girl's thoughts were en- gulfed there, in a memory which seemed dim, and boundless, and unreal to her. It was only last night that she had danced light-heartedly at Orix)rne House, in a scene of brilliance and gaiety, where poverty, or sorrow, or death seemed a thing forgotten or unknown. It was only last night that Bernard Levey had asked her to be his wife. It was only last night that, across the glitter and gaiety, fell this lurid glare of fire around one solitary figure which had had no share in the festivity.. And between that &r-baok memory of last night and this moment, there lay a time when thought had been swal- lowed up in action, and she had fek that even she too had, for a few hours, known fearless, un- wearying, self-forgetting labour, such as his. . VOL. in. E 50 THE squire's legacy. Thinking this, Doris looked a little more intently and anxiously now into Scot's face when he re-entered the room, and she saw — ^beyond the quiet bravery natural to it, and the smile for the child who rose so eagerly to meet him — ^the many nameless traces of his cool, undaunted struggle with fate. Was the simple, brave, un- selfish life to be " ploughed by moments " to the end ? If so *^ Now, Miss Egerton, shall we go and taste your coffee 1 As I hear you made it, I am of course sceptical as to its merits." The cool tone broke the heavy thought, and left Doris — as Scot's words generally did — in utter perplexity as to whether she ought to judge him by his words and his kind, frank glance, or by that fleeting look upon his face which told how hard it was, at times, to hope, and how vain to resolve. " The coffee will be delicious," observed Doris, with a parting nod to the child. It was easier now to answer Scot in his own tone, fie looked different since his return to the room, and she could not have told him now that he had an enormous black on his face ; yet he still wore the grey suit he had burned and THE squire's LEGAGi;. 51 blackened, and he had evidently no idea that his work was over. While noticing this, she passed him at the door, in her plain dark dress ; and just then he too noticed, in simple wonder, some change in her. Becalling the glimpses he had caught of her through the busy night hours — while she ran so swiftly at her tasks, and worked so thoroughly and deftly — ^he wondered for a moment how it would have been if he had gone to Bernard Levey's ball, and Doris, firesh and beautiAil in lily whiteness, had laid her hand within his arm just once, and let him lead her where he would. ''Now, honestly, Mr. Monkton, confess that the coffee is not so bad as you fancied it would be." ** It is worse." " Is it really I" she asked, turning to him with raised eyebrows — such pretty, delicate eyebrows —as she sat on his right hand. "It is indeed; for I fancied it would be a decoction to which nectar would be a mere joke, and I find it — coffee." "But not a despicable sort of coffee!" " I have tasted worse," remarked Scot, coolly meeting her eyes ; " and I fear I may live to E 2 52 THE sqihre's legacy. taste worse again. Did you b<»l sugar in it r '^ You manufactured this extraordinary fluid, did you, little lady ?" put in Colonel Egerton^ enjoying the laugh against his daughter. ^^Well, I am not so much surprised at that — for Tm pretty well used to see you make mistakes — ^but the fact of your having courage to own to it does rather surprise me." '^It is delicious coffee/' interposed Mis& Michal, pathetically ; ^' but I hope it won't make Scot grumble at Elizabeth's in future." *' Of course it will," said Scot, while Colonel £gerton laughed at the impossible notion of his indulging in that petty practice. " Had not we better have a fire every night, Miss Egerton, to bring you over to make it pleasant to imbibe the necessary cup ? Though we all have to drink it, we cannot all make it pleasant." Never guessing the earnestness which shone in her eyes, Doris gravely shook her head. " The benefit would be mmense, of course ; but — the price too high." Thus they tried to begin the meal cheerfully and even merrily, but it was too diflSlcult a task, while that night of horror lay so close behind THE SQUnUfi'S LEGAGT. 53 them, and its consequences stretched so cruelly into the young man's future. Colonel Egerton could shrewdly guess in what state this fire must leave Scot, and his kind heart was busy in devising impossible means of helping anyone so proud and sensitive. Gradually the conver- sation drifted into the event which each had tried to ignore ; and so, in spite of all, it was with a feeling of relief that they rose from the table at last — ^Miss Michal insisting, with exces* sive mournfiilness, that Doris ought to go to bed at once* " It's dreadful for you never to have been in bed at all," she added, *^ and after a dance, too." ^'I don't feel as if 1 had missed a. minute of sleep," smiled Doris ; ^^ but I think everything is carried back now, and put as it was before we had the alarm. So " — with a wistful glance at her father — ** I can go." "I am ready, dear," said Colonel Egerton, covering his damaged apparel with an over- coat ; *• but, unfortunately. Miss Windish, you will see me back presently. I'm too thoroughly an old soldier not to revisit the battlefield." «« Mr. Monkton," said Doris, softly, as, with her hat in her hand, she came to say good-bye to 54 THE squire's LEGAOT. him at the window where he stood, "was it true — ^what they whispered in the night — about Monsieur Sourdetf" " Quite true, Miss Egerton," replied Scot, looking gravely out upon his defaced garden. "And he was dead when they first found him f " " Quite dead." " He must have been in your stack-yard, then^ But how was it that, if he had managed an ingress, he could not escape in time f " "He was in one of the barns asleep — there can be no doubt of that," Scot said, still very quietly, and avoiding any of the ghastly particulars. " How strange ! Can you guess why?" " I have not tried — ^yet." "Then I suppose," said Doris, very thought- fully, *Hhat the fire was caused by some acci- dent of his. Do you think he dropped a lighted match ?" "I think he fell from above, because some fragments of the upper flooring lay beneath him when he was found. And we know that the fire broke out from below — and at the stacks beyond. I know very little at present, Mis& THE squire's legacy. 55 Egerton, and I do not like to see your eyes saddened by these thoughts. Tell me, is Kenneth Bradford's drama in rehearsal yet ?" « Not yet." '* But we shall soon have our long-expected pleasure of hearing it?" « Yes." She answered brightly, but Scot noticed that this night had taken away much of her joyous- ness ; and then he suddenly felt, with intense relief, that the change in her was accounted for by her dress. The dark serge was unrelieved by collar or cuffii — she having changed her ball dress in such haste — and her hair, though still showing how exquisitely it had been dressed last night, had been loosened when she had taken the flowers out; and, when afterwards the stray locks fell, they had been fastened back more with a view to comfort than elegance. *^ Yes," mused Scot, ^' that is what alters her. I don't Kke it." And yet no woman's dress which he had ever seen, was to dwell in his memory as this one did. '^ Kenneth's anxiety now is growing very sad to see," Doris said, presently, in a grave tone ; 56 THE squire's LB6ACY. "but — but I suppose it naturally would, Mr. Monkton f she interrogated, wistfully. " Naturally he will be anxious, until he knows his own strength. When the public has shown him that, he will have no further fear or doubt." " He lias the strength," mused Doris, softly. Colonel Egerton had finished his parting words with Miss Windish now ; and, while he joined Scot to entreat him to spend the evening with them at the Dower House, Doris put on her hat. Once or twice she tried to second her father's request ; but only her eyes obeyed the wish, her hps refusing to urge this upon Scot, now that he must feel himself poor and de^ fenceless, because she understood the acute sensitive nature, half hidden by his frankness* " But there is no shadow of doubt about your ultimate good fortune," Colonel Egerton was saying, when Doris turned again from shaking hands with Miss Windish. ** No one knew the truth better than Dryden when he said, 'He that courts Fortune boldly makes her kind.' You've courted Fortune as boldly as any man could ; and, in her despair at being unable to provoke you, she will turn her wrath to kind- ness." THE squire's legacy. 57 "A very knowing fellow was Dryden," re- turned Scot, tranqnillj ; " he had me in his mind also when he wrote, ' His com and cattle were his only care.' Good-bye is it, Miss Egertont Good-bye then, and with all my heart I thank yon for the help — ^for all yon have done for us since you came." ^* Don't you think, papa," whispered Doris, as they walked slowly up the Larch Walk, while the feeble Winter sunshine threw across their path the shadows of the tall, bare trees, ^ that this must be the greatest loss Mr. Monkton can have? And when the worst comes, it gets bright and different, doesn't it?" *^ Impossible to say, dear, and hard even to guess, because those who are down low are so easily pushed over. But, at any rate, one fact is certain ; he can say, as Byron did to Tom Moore, * Whatever sky's above me, I've a heart for every fate.' " It was a pretty picture which met Scot's eyes when he went into Willy's room. The child sat up between his snowy curtains, gravely talking to Monarch, who, sitting upright beside the bed, rested his nose upon the coverlet, and, looking intelligently into the child's face, joined 58 THE squire's legacy. mutely in the conversatioDy while he graciously received his gentle caresses. But Scot^ after his first glance and smile, paused beside the window, and, as Liath came up £rom the wooden bridge— which had been saved from the fire by the hill which rose between the Green Pits and the river — ^he saw his master standing there very still and thoughtful, his face turned towards the Dower House. It was only when Liath's step crossed the long, bare chamber that Scot turned — ^turned, so the old man fancied, with a start. "Welir " Well, sir," said Liath, with a succession of lively nods towards the little bed, " Mr. and Miss Chamberlain are purty well." " Was that the only message f " " It wur all, sir." " You did not see Miss Chamberlain ?" " No, sir. You didna tell me." " Have you had any breakfast, Liath ?" " All I want, sir ; Fm off to the Green Pits now." " I hope," said Scot, " that you don't leave your meals because of that companion forced upon you, Liath?" THE squire's legacy. 50 ** Not Ij sir," responded Liath, with suspicious haste. '' He's not bad ; he's quite good in some things — ^'specially eatin'." " It is less likely than ever now," said Scot, with no inclination to smile, ^' that I can pay him off myself." '^ Oh, as to that, I pay him off myself, sir, every hour of the day," retorted Liath, briskly* " It's a little return for his kindness in visitin' us 'thout a invite." *< But — '* Liath came a little nearer now, and turned his back upon the child, so cutting off most suddenly the succession of nods and smiles — '^ but it isna 'bout 'im as I'm waitin' to see ye now, master. It's somethin' I fund — last night. It's best you should see it, sir. I dunna think it's anythin' as matters to me ; so 'ere 'tis." His mind being relieved so far, Liath looked back over his shoulder, and nodded three times rapidly. ** Where did you find this f asked Scot, look- ing down, without any curiosity, on the box which his servant had given him— a small fire- proof case, about an inch deep, of the length and width of an ordinary envelope, and fast €0 THE SQXJIRB'S LEGACY. •closed, though bearing no sign of a lock. " I fund it wheer I fund the Frenchman, sir." « Oh !" "And — " Liath's tone was stirred here by evident self-gratulation, but Scot did not notice it — " I was on'y jest in time. So you'd ansaid, sir, if you'd seen Oliver Wakeley gropin' and gruvellin' after it, a bit later on." "Why?" " He best knows, sir. I didna ask 'im." " I see." It was not Wakeley's motive which Scot meant. What he saw was the fact that he possibly held now in his hands the papers which Sourdet had valued at ten thousand pounds. He knew — he had always known — that they were utterly valueless ; but could he not judge for himself now ?" " It fastens with a spring, of course," he said, his deft brown fingers searching for the secret so successfully that in a few moments the little box sprang open Mrith a click — Liath had left his master then, and was holding a placid con- versation, beside the bed, equally with the child and the deerhound — and he saw that the box contained only one packet of papers, tied THE squire's LEGAGT. 61 together with red tape. These papers bore the mark of age, but on an outer label was written, clearly and boldly, Scot's own name, as it used to stand — Scot Monktoriy Esquire, of Kingawood. A crowd of memories glided before Scot as he read it. So familiar was it that his thoughts came back from his old home with a shock, when he suddenly recollected that this could not be hia name, but the name of that Scot Monkton for whose heir the old home had been giTen up. 62 CHAPTER IV. A SOMBRE room, "with two narrow windows looking straight upon other narrow win- dows opposite, and down upon one of those sleep- ing streets which intersect that restless region where the world's work is done, as the nights intersect our working days, and yet hold still their own cares — and their own great problems, too — ^in their quietness and solitude. A room whose meagre furniture frowned in a heavy gloom which could be scattered by no indefa- tigable sunbeam, because that sunbeam must be weak and tired by the time it had found its way through these dim windows, from the far-off glory of its birth-place. And yet there, below one window, on a long sheet of manuscript, and on a busy, thin young hand, there fell a sunbeam even now — a won- THE squire's legacy. 63 deringy questioning little ray, which timidly shunned the grim, dark furniture against the wall, and for just one moment had shyly touch- ed the young man's brow with its own sweet country kiss. It was a quiet room, where the brain could work its will without interruption^ but a room to strike a chill to the heart of one who had just left a country home, where the silence was upon the fresh, pure air without, and the solitude rich with scents and memories. This was why a shudder passed through Mr. Bradford's upright, wiry frame as he stood at the door of this room, in the early morning, and looked in upon his son. " Hem 1" In itself a vague and rather insignificant monosyllable ; but, as Mr. Bradford uttered it, bearing a whole volume of meaning to Kenneth; and, though he had been so far away in his world of dreams, it brought him swiftly back to his father. "When did I return, eh?" echoed the old lawyer, looking round with a frown upon the books and scattered papers, as he answered Kenneth's greeting. " Why, this very hour ; 64 THE squire's legacy. and Fm off again this very hour too. Are you going to the office ?" ^' Tes, father ; of course I shall be there by eleren, as usual." "As usual I" ejaculated Mr. Bradford, again echoing bis son's words, and doing his best (though failing) to hold fast that frown which melted under Kenneth's gaze, and left the old man's glance so loving and so proud. "^As usual' means that you hang your hat there, and leave your head somewhere else. A fine anomaly — a lawyer without brains ; a man with- out muscle too, if you don't take care ; a limber nonentity, who melts under his duty, aa a snail does under salt. You are looking a bright specimen of manhood now. Put away those papara, and walk out to see Doctor Boyd. Never mind the office to-day." " And tell Doctor Boyd," said Kenneth, laughing;, ^' to do what he likes with me, only give me no medicine, and not diet me." " If you follow your father's example in everything else," rejoined Mr. Bradford, de- termined not to smile, " you may follow it in that — not otherwise. Now put up this rubbish ; surely you've no more to do to it, now you've THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 65 found some idiot to accept it for the stage." "That's why I'm working at it now," said Kenneth, with a laugh which failed to hide his intense excitement. '^ Before it is put in re- hearsal, I wish to finish it more carefully. If it fail, it shall not be for want of care. I, so new and young a writer, cannot expect people to listen to careless work. I would not offer that insult to the public, father." " Pooh ! D'ye think the public care an atom how you finish your work, so that it finishes for them while they can keep their eyes open? They'd rather have the sparkle of wealth than wit; and they think far more of pose than poesy. Another thing I'll wager, lad, the very bits you think the finest will be slurred over — seneibly-by your actors, and fall dead into empty boxes." " What a picture of failure !" laughed Kenneth,, "Surely you cannot know who are to act in my drama." " Oh, I've heard," put in the old man, hastily, " male and female — all fixed stars and rolling planets. It's folly, lad, and my only hope is that you will soon see this fact for yourself. Can you even now, infatuated as you are, really VOL. in. F 66 THE squire's leqaot. value the only return yon can win for all this mental struggle! What will it be! There will come a night when excitement and ex- pectation — and ambition, if you like — will have reached their climax, and those people to whom you have given tickets to see your play, or who have grown excited over it just because it is something new, or whom by chance you may have amused, may burst out into a lightning flash of approval and flattery ; and those very people, calming down, will see only faults and blemishes when the flash has passed, and will coldly and sensibly hold you up to ridicule as a good mark for others to fling stones at, or will more surely damn with their own faint praise. What will they care that you've thrown into this work the very essence of your life, and stolen fi'om your existence all those hours of rest with- out which no man can keep his youth and strength? Think again. Is it worth while. Ken?" " Yes, it is worth while," Kenneth answered, gently. " What is it not worth, to succeed in the very highest walk of art ?" " The higher the walk the greater the fall. Begin a gradual descent, my boy, while you THE squire's legacy. 67 liave time. Hard am It" he questioned, his own voice shaking a little as he saw the flush in his son's earnest face. *^ If I had been always hardy I should have shown myself a wiser man. Do you think it gives me pleasure to see you growing old before me — ^you, the last of Put up those pens and papers," he broke off, petulantly. *^It's as well to be a mummy at once as to have no trace of boyhood." "I have had one of the happiest boyhoods any man ever looked back upon," said Kenneth, lovingly, as he laid his hand for .a moment on his father's. " Always remember that, please, father, and how I owed that happiness to you." "I can only spare ten minutes more," ob- served Mr. Bradford, as he very coolly — to all seeming-— drew out his watch and looked at it ; '^you needn't go to the office to-day at all. Reynolds won't expect you, I daresay — indeed, if the truth were told, he never expects you. Go to Gordon Square and drive with Joan, for she is often lonely in her drives. Remember that you've too much energy of thought to stand energy of action too. Well," he added, with a change of tone which he fancied was imperceptible, as his well-drilled sympathy rose f2 68 THE squire's legacy. again to harass him, '' when is this intoxicating drama — ^yon ought to cut off the last letter — to be acted ?" " In April, father." ^^ Leave off the polishing at once, then. It only thins the work, and rubs off all its vigour." "Not," said Kenneth, thoughtfully, "if the work is strong, and to Uve." " Bah I Any baby can say that, but it needs a giant for such work. And you are labouring now to fit characters to your actors and ac- tresses, eh I" " No— no, indeed," replied Kenneth, quickly. " I am trying to leave, in my work, characters that shall live, and in whom the actors shall lose their own identity. They may not be such, I know ; but * who aims at the sky shoots higher far than he who means a tree.' " " I see," rejoined Mr. Bradford, curtly. " You have a hero who tears furiously from side to side of the stage, while anyone with half an eye can see how he keeps his stage instructions in sight, and — never forgets his audience." "No," the young man answered, his eyes brightening with his subject, ^^ my hero is never degraded to fury." " A tame looby, then I" THE squire's legacy. 69 ^^ No, he is wakened to wrath, of course. I cannot pretend to heroic inspiration, father, but the aim I seek, is to bring together characters well opposed, striking against each other artis- tically — do you see '/" " Of course I don't. What is there to see ?" *' To make my dialogue bright as well as vigorous," continued the young man, thought- fully, *' and, with one strong interest of human passion, to excite sympathy by the intensity both of human strength and weakness — do you understand I" " No," again snapped the old lawyer. " Why didn't you purloin a plot of some other fellow's, and save all this trouble ? It's the right thing to do, and always was. Comeille and Racine borrowed wholesale, and never troubled about repaying either ; and as for Shakespeare — yet I daresay your highest ambition is to hear your- self dubbed a young Shakespeare." "That," said Kenneth, "could only be an insult to the great dramatic poet who stands alone." "It isn't genius that is necessary. It's advertising." "I think diflTerently of the £nglish public, father. 70 THE squire's legacy. ** Do ye, lad ? Well, may yours be the right thought after all, as you throw yourself on its mercy j Now I must be off to Eingswood ; youug Monkton has at last come to his senses about his property. Bless the lad, you look as sur- prised as if I said he had grown dramatic. Isn't it time he threw off his temporary insanity, before Sr pauper coroner fixes it on him for eternity V* " Father," smiled Kenneth, " you roar like any sucking dove. Does Mr. Monkton say he will return to Kingswood ?" " Not quite, but he needs help, and for him to own that, is the first step — the only one which counts, according to proverbial wisdom." ** I hope he is not in any trouble,*' said Ken- neth, his voice stirred by real sympathy. " He's had a Writ served, I expect," returned the lawyer testily; **and, as he hasn't had a very wide experience in such matters, I'll go over and see about it. What message for Doris r " How I should like to come I" cried Kenneth, his thin face growing almost beautiful in the happiness of his pure poet-love. " No, I dare not s are the time now," he said, firmly, when THE squire's LEGAGY. 71 hifi father urged bim. *^ It is a strong tempta- tion — the very strongest temptation — but I really dare not. I don't know what message to send her," he added, with a smile ; '* I cannot send my love, because she has it, and I wrote to her this morning.'* *^ This morning I" echoed Mr. Bradford, his keen eyes saddening. *^ Before daylight, I suppose I" " Yes," the young man answered quietly. " I have not slept much lately, and I am better up. Who was it had a head which beat upon its pillow with a thousand schemes 1 Mine are not schemes exactly ; but — oh, father, I see such grand dramatic situations in the night ; and — and even i£ Ido sleep, I wake so soon, with a rush in my ears of " " Of applause, I suppose," put in Mr. Brad- ford, turning away a little, to avoid his son's eyes. "No — it is not that — I think. Sometimes I think it is, and then I find that it is music ; and then I can fancy cries; and then shrieks upon my own name ; and then Doris's sobs ; and iiten — my own laughter, I think; and sometimes what I hear sounds like a long 72 THE squire's legacy. * flush/ whispered loudly by a thousand voices, I — I never know what it is." ** / know what it is, though," said the old man, hardly conscious how the hand trembled which he laid on his son's shoulder ; " it's indi- gestion." ** I'll bid Doris send for him," he mused to himself, when he walked away, too deep in thought just then for words ; " a good holiday at the Dower House will set him all right." Though he had the morning papers with him in the railway-carriage, Mr. Bradford let them lie upon the seat opposite him, untouched, till he lefb the train at Minton ; when he sudden- ly remembered them, and studied their columns intently through the drive to the Black Birches. Half an hour after that, Scot Monkton, coming in from his devastated stack-yard, found the old man slowly pacing the trampled garden ground, muttering to himself, with a heavy frown upon his brow. Yet, when Scot came up behind him, and linked an arm in his, with a laugh of real pleasure at seeing }us old friend, Mr. Bradford only inquired, with the greatest composure, whether Mr. Monkton would kindly inform him *^ what was the next beatitude about to descend upon this privileged abode." THE squire's legacy. 73 " It was not the fire which made me ask jou for your aid, Mr. Bradford," said Scot, follow- ing his eyes up the blackened walls to the roof- less chamber. **The fire occurred only the night before last. It was about that debt of Wessel's that I begged your help. He has put a man in possession." "Of this airy abode ? How's his rheumatism?" "We have some home-nooks even yet," laughed Scot. *^It is not quite so bad as it looks firom here. Come in and see." "Not yet — not while the place holds a myrmidon of the French scamp's. Tell me all about it — out here." There had been a keen frost in the night, and the ground was dry and hard under their feet as they walked to and fro, the young man telling of his journey to town, its cause and conse- quence, and the fire which so soon followed; and the old man, listening with great intentness, suppressing, almost immediately, those impati- ent ejaculations which rose so freely and naturally to his lips. This forced silence was most evident of all, through Scot's narrative of his interview with Mr. Albert Mostyn, and it was a relief to hear it 74 THE squire's LEGAOY. broken even by that contemptuous groan with which Mr. Bradford received the* intelligence that the "waif" Scot had picked up on the journey was now under his care at the Black Birches, and that really Scot's only regret respecting this fact was that the child had no one else to care for him. *' It 19 a pity," murmured the old lawyer, with supreme irony ; "he might have been fortunate enough to fall to some one just a shade poorer, and less used to being tied to fretful infants. He was unlucky to tack himself to you, accus- tomed all your life to nurseries, and milk diet, and patience, and — poverty. Dear child^ he should have done better for himself, and held fast to the coat of some young fellow who knows nothing about children — or sheriff's officers. Bah 1" After which little ebullition Mr. Bradford grew quiet again, and listened through Scot's account of the finding of Monsieur Sourdet's body, and the papers which he must have carried, and which Scot had put aside for the lawyer to read. " Worthless rubbish I" remarked Mr. Brad- ford, curtly. " Now Fm ready to go in." THE squire's legacy. 75 '' Bless me !" he explained, as he passed through the hall. *^ Have you a battering ram at work upon the place V* "It's the baUiflF," laughed Scot. "He is beating on the door of the dining-room, where he usually elects to sit. Liath has locked him in. He always does when he can — and he generally can, for he is quick and deft and small, and the man is slow and sleepy. Even in the kitchen — where I suppose he thinks he may be safe with Elizabeth — Liath manages it some- times." " Cannot the man take the keys away ?" "No; Liath keeps every key in his pocket, and only leaves one out of his possession, when it is in the outer keyhole of a room inside which the man is temporarily confined. Shall I let him out now I" "Wait a minute, and we will do it more effectually. La the meantime, let us in." Scot drew a long breath of relief when the officer had been dismissed, and very earnestly thanked Mr. Bradford for the loan. " It is better, I think," observed the old man, coolly, while his thoughts still evidently hover- 76 THE squire's legacy. ed about the abode and profession of Mr. Albert Mostyn, " to deal with respectable men when you can ; and I believe T. & C. Bradford to be thoroughly respectable practitioners. Now let us see that French sneak*s papers." The papers were indeed — as far even as the shrewd eyes of the old solicitor could see — worthless rubbish, as he had said. There were four old letters, signed " R. Scot," folded with- out envelopes, and addressed to Mrs. Scot, at Borne ; there was a pocket-book containing a rough diary, in which names and places were distinguished only by initials, and a photograph of the late Scot Monkton. But no clue could these papers give to a living heir, and no fresh light could they throw upon the story which the shrewd old man of the law had before traced to an abrupt and apparently impassable barrier. Mr. Bradford ]put each article back into the case, after he had slowly examined it, and then took off his glasses, still more slowly, and rose. ^^ I shall take the box," he said then, coolly. " There will be no need to produce it at the inquest. It was picked up after the body had been removed." " The inquest is over," observed Scot, sur- THE squire's legacy. 77 prised, ^* and I produced those letters ; I never thought of suppressing them — never for an instant. True, they had been, for nearly a year, a matter only between you and myself and Monsieur Sourdet ; but still it seemed a matter for the jury then, so far as they might under- stand them." "The inquest over, is it?" muttered Mr.. Bradford, a tone of keen mortification betraying itself against his will. *^ What evidence was there t" "Very h'ttle," returned Scot, with a visible horror of the subject. " Oliver Wakeley iden- tified the body. He had last seen Sourdet four weeks before — of course that would be before Wakeley's detention — and had been for two days expecting him from London. It wa*^ Sutton's groom in Minton who had last seen him alive and well ; he met him walking out here, and bade him good night. He said it wasn't quite dark then, and he noticed Sourdet was not sober. Everybody said that he must have taken shelter at the Green Pits, as a hat, with his name in it, was found next day under a hedge on the other side the river, and the idea was that he had turned to seek it, and had 78 THE SQUTRE'S LE6A0T. fallen asleep before the fire broke out — ^fallen asleep in the loft, evidently, for some fragments of the npper flooring lay under him. The coroner said he did not propose to call any medical testimony in the case (unless the jury especially desired it) as the body was so much disfigured, and he considered there was sufficient evidence to show that death had resulted from the fire. The jury hardly deliberated at all ; they at once returned a verdict of accidental death." Mr. Bradford had stood watching the young man's face, simply wondering, unconsciously to himself, how Scot Monkton could for one moment help feeling this accident an intense personal relief to himself, beyond the advant- age of ridding the world of an idle, dishonest impostor. *' He must feel it so," thought Mr. Bradford, decisively ; ** there can be no two thoughts on the matter." Fortunately just at this minute Miss Windish came into the room — Willy following like her shadow — ^and the old lawyer's eyes and thoughts were turned. Perhaps, of all the surprises which this day had given him, the greatest of all was THE squire's legacy. 79 now come. That Miss Windish should appear vnth the little waifs hand in hers, and a smile — faint certainly, and a little plaintive, but a smile nevertheless — ^upon her small features, was odd enough to one who knew that she had invariably found life in every aspect fall of woe, and the bestowal of smiles upon her fellow- creatures a matter of severe self-denial ; but to see this child ding to Scot Monkton, and to see Scot's reception of him, was the oddest thing of all. " Well," he observed, grimly, when he and Scot were left alone again, ** now that you are literally forced into it, you are going to behave like a sane man at last." " As nearly as I can." ^^ How soon may I dine with you at Kings- wood t" "You have to-day helped me out of my greatest difficulty, Mr. Bradford ; and, as you say I need not repay the money until I choose, I think I shall get on now pretty well. If I work harder, and the Spring wheat can be '' " Do I understand you aright ?" questioned the old lawyer, with cutting deliberation. " Are 80 THE squire's legacy. you going to struggle on in this ruined ^* " Hold a little harder, please ; remember that every Englishman's house is his castle." " Are you," continued Mr. Bradford, uttering the words in wrathful haste, "going to work your fingers to the bone, and let your hair turn grey, in the hope of any return on this im- poverished land, which old miser Harris only left you because he knew he couldn't sell it ?" ^^ I think I shall make it pay me back in time, with a fine interest too — ^perhaps such an interest as would satisfy even my friend in Duke Street." " In time 1" echoed the old man, with supreme contempt. " No, not if you ply the plough and harrow till doomsday. The only chance you ever had has been taken from you. What have you to make another start upon ?" "What have I?" repeated Scot, tranquilly. "Do you mean in the way of money or muscle ?" "Money, of course." "Oh, in the way of money," he said, pleasant- ly meeting the old man's scrutinizing gaze, " I have simply nothing. There's our summons to luncheon." Mr. Bradford's astonishment at the beginning THE squire's LEQAOT. 81 of the meal — when he saw the little waif demurely seated beside Scot at the table, as if he had a right there — ^was nothing com- pared with his astonishment at his own con- duct afterwards, when he found himself mak- ing grave and solemn remarks to this little lad, who was such a small and living contradic- tion, whose tones were so babyish and his grave and watchful politeness so unchildlike ; whose ejres were so pleading and so wistful, yet who asked for nothing, and made no voluntary re- minder of his small and frail existence ; who inquired so gravely into the meaning of Scot's merry remarks, as if unused to merriment, and yet was so quick to appreciate every word or glance of kindness. *^ A nice charge for him to have undertaken," mused the old lawyer, his vexed thoughts reverting to Soot even while he held his sober discourse with Miss Windish and the child; " a nice charge indeed, while, as he truly says, he has nothing." But even with the reflection, there flashed before him a memory which made him thought- ful for a minute. It was the recollection of Sir Henry Wotton's lines, and — though he would VOL. in. G S2 THE SQUIBB'S IiBGAGY. not have owned it — ^he knew quite well why the thought of Scot brought three of them so f ordbl J to his mind — Whose aimoar is his honest thoaght ; Whose oonadenoeis his dvong retveat ; Who haying nothing, yet hath slL 83 CHAPTER V. nT afternoon Rose Levey was alone in the loming-room at Osborne House. She l^dd been sitting idly there for hours; and now, vUIe the dusk of the Winter day deepen- ed slowly around her, her eyes were weary of their strained gaze out into the garden, and her brain was weary of its one constant, narrow iihought. . 80 it was a great relief to her to hear the grating sound of wheels upon the gravel; though no one could have guessed this, when she raised her eyebrows so languidly upon her sister's entrance* " Did you not see him, theni" "Really, Rose," answered Violet, throwing herself down upon a couch, *'what do you mean f g2 84 THE SQUIR£'S LEGACY. *^ Did you match the silk ?" qnestioned IVIiss Levey, scorning a reply which she knew to be unnecessary. '*Yes, I matched the silk," returned the younger sister, very slowly and cautiously drawing off her tightly-fitting gloves; "but they had only five yards left. That will just make the alterations in my own dress ; but I don't know what you are to do." "What else!" asked Miss Levey ciirtly. The broad, complacent smile upon her sister's face angered her sorely in her present mood ; but no glimpse, however broad^ of the family selfishness could surprise her. **I went to the library," continued Violet, dropping her words in a leisurely manner, as she folded her gloves together, "and then, having a few minutes to spare, I called on Mrs. Porter — and Felix was there." "I thought so." "Did youl" questioned Violet, chillily. " Then perhaps you know that he drove me part . of the way home I" 99 " He would have come all the way," resumed Violet, with intense complacency — ^for did it not THE squire's legacy. 85 naturally engender complacency to imagine her elder sister jealous of these pleasant, lover-like attentions ? — ** only he had an engagement for dinner. I was very glad he came, because we were able to have a little talk about our own affairs ; Major Porter was so fall of the reports there are about this inquest, and Scot Monkton, that — ^Where's Bernard !" ^^ I have not seen him since he went to the inquest. What was it Major Porter said ?" **0h, really, Rose, you don't expect me to remember all the things he chose to worry about. Please to ring for lights and tea." *^ You may," returned Rose, strong and calm in the immunity of seniority. ** As you take such care to remember that you are the younger, please take equal care to remember that I am the elder." " I ring simply because I want a cup of tea," explained Violet, with remarkable placidity. That's Bernard, I suppose. No one else bangs the hall door as he does." Mr. Levey came into his sisters' room at once; perhaps summoned by the showy sym- phony which Violet played when she had rung the bell and thrown off her hat and jacket. 86 THE SQniRE*S LEGACY. perhaps fiimply because he appreciated the institution of five-o'clock tea. Bose, still in her B^at before the unndow, while the shadows crept hearily about her, waited, in an eager suspense, for the cessation of her sister's chords. " Come, Violet," said Mr. Levey, standing on the rug and tenderly warming his long white fingers, •* that will do till after dinner ; then you shall sing tis the whole of the opera, if you like, while we sleep — eh, Rose V* "Did yon go to the inquest, Bernard?" inquired his elder sister, still without turning. " Yes, I went with Colonel Egerton, as I said I should." "Love me, love my father," put in Violet, still playing, in a laudable endeavour to exhibit the inefficiency of a brother's command. " No fresh light was thrown on the matter at all," resumed Bernard, with a smile of supreme indifference to Violet's chords and cadenzas; "the only awkward thing was that Colonel Egerton's coachman was called to explain a fact he seems to have gossiped about^ not thinking that it signified. As he drove the carriage home, on the night of our ball, he saw Mr* Monkton THE squire's LEGAOr. 87 galloping fast from the Green Pits, up to the high road, and across it towards Comely Plaoe. The jury would not believe it, because he must have ridden over that tmsafe little wooden bridge ; but, when appealed to, he said, ' Yes, it was quite true.' " "Well?" ^* Well, there the matter rested, of course. I thought Monkton turned a little pale, but Porter said — No, he was just as ever. Colonel Egerton was vexed that the man had said anything ; and I saw him very angry with the fellow after- wards ; but he laughed with his daughter, and said he didn't know why he should have object- ed to Evans giving such trifling and useless evidence." ^ You have been to the Dower House, then V* put in Violet, half turning on her stool, though her hands still ran up and down the keys of the piano. ** Yes — ^why not ? Doris Egerton would have been dull enough to-day if I had not, for no one had called before she went out. Then Major Porter came, and I rode with him into Blinton. He is absurdly put out about the whole thing." 88 THE squire's legaoy. « What whole thing r ^* Yon see there is an uncomfortable feeling abroad now about this fire. Some one has said — or rather, I believe, some two or three people hare said — that Scot Mon^ton set fire to his own barns, for his own purposes," " Oh, Bernard 1" cried Violet, rising quickly from the piano now, *^ that's what they all meant at Major Porter's. But I couldn't under* stand ; and I was so sick of the subject, because it made Felix dull. Tell us what it is. Major Porter is so awfully angry about it." A servant had entered the room, and was shutting out the weird shadows, but still Rose did not stir; and, while her younger sister poured out the tea, and her brother revelled in the warmth of the wide blaze, she still sat with her face half turned away, her eyes dim in their gaze. "It is very strange, if you come to look into it," continued Mr. Levey, sipping hi^ tea between the words. ^* Monkton had been tremendously bothered by this foreigner — Australian, or whatever he was — and yet had been known to want certain family papers which the man would not give up without being paid a good price for them, as they touched upon his family history as THE squire's legacy. 89 well as the Monktons'. It was quite a natural thing for the man to want money, but Monkton wouldn't give it. I believe he tried to lower the terms, but could not. Then, when these papers came so mysteriously into his possession at last — why, it is almost natural people should say what they do." " What do they say — exactly !" "Rose, how you startled mel" said her. brother, with a laugh. " I didn't remember you were there. Why, they say of course — I don't mean of course^ but they say, not without some reason — that the whole matter looks strange and suspicious. Pass the sugar, Yi." « Who says that !" " Really, Rose, how can Bernard tell ?" put in Violet, impatiently. ** Will you come and take your tea, or leave it here to grow cold ? For Bernard doesn't seem inclined to venture with it into the darkness where you are«" " Darkness f ' echoed Rose, rising and turning her stiff, colourless face iipon them. " Darkness in this glaring light! Do we ever have any- thing but a glare of light in this wretched — in this house ?" "Is your head bad ?" inquired Bernard, look* ing at his sister, surprised. 90 THE squire's LEGAOT. '^ No, thanks ; finish this stoiy of the inquest^ please." "I've told you all I know. There's a Mr. Monkton staying at Minton, who Major Porter £suicies must be at the bottom of it all ; but still we cannot tmderstand how it should have been whispered out here, before this cousin of young Monkton's seems to have been here at all." "What whispered?" "You are beautifully dull to-night, Rose," observed her sister, refilling her own cup with her usual languor ; '* I can see it all at a glance. This man possessed certain papers which were of value to Mr. Monkton, and coveted by him, though he could not obtain them. He always hated the man, and others knew it. Now the man has met a violent death on Scot Monkton's premises, and the documents are in Scot Monk- ton's possession, Don't you see what many people may say'/ I don't say it myself— I should be very sorry to be so suspicious — ^but many people would ; I can see that plainly. The world is so ready to condemn, even when things do not look very suspicious; so that in such a case as this, when they really d/o look suspicious " THE squire's LEGAOY. 91 *^ I see that you are very tuwuspicious your- self," remarked Rote, calmly. ^* Has Miss Eger- ton heard this, Bernard V **N0| she had not when I was there this morning; but even I had not understood it then.*' ** She never hears things of this kind," put in Violet ; ** but she ought to hear this." *' Yes," assented Rose, and for the first time since her brother's entrance she dropped her eyes, bringing the heavy lids over them entire- ly, as if for momentary rest and_relief. I shall go to-morrow and tell her." *^ I will come too," said her brother, assuming a coldness which was exaggerated even for him. " I suppose she ought to know — ^you girls understand that sort of thing best — and I shall leave it to you ; but I shall be there too." *'You must go without me, Eose," said her sister, presently. '^ Felix may come out to- morrow morning, and of course I must not be away." ^* Of course not," observed Miss Levey, in a chilly parenthesis, as she left the room. This was not true of Scot Monkton. There was not a word of truth in it— Rose felt quite 92 THE squire's legacy. >c6rtaia of this, as she walked slowly backwards and forwards in her dressing-room, regardless of her maid's hints that the dinner-bell would ring in a few minutes. No, not a word of truth ; and yet how low it would bring himl She could not help that — she would help it if she could, but it was impossible. So he must suffer and be shunned. Then — if it were so — and she were true and never believed it — and if he could feel this, and grow dependent upon her ! Ah, might not this be the very one touch that was needed to bring down that cool and proud reserve of his, which nothing else would break, because it was hidden so safely under his pleasant, courteous manner 1 If so Rose snapped the thought, purposely and resolutely, by summoning her maid in haste ; and through the long and solemn dinner she talked BO much, and with such unusual rapidity, that her brother and sister exchanged many glances of slow astonishment. But that night, long after Bernard and Violet were asleep, Bose sat writing beside her neg- lected fire. When she put down her pen at last, she had THE squire's legaot. 9S half a dozen sheets filled upon her desk, and very slowly and carefully she read each ona through. After that, one by one, she dropped them into the fire — all except one, which she read a second time and folded and put into an envelope. Then she rose and prepared for bed, leaving' the letter, unsealed and unaddressed, upon her desk. When, half an hour afterwards, she came up to the table to extinguish the candles, she took the letter up again, and held it in her hand, musing, with her eyes upon its unlettered cover. Presently, very slowly and deliberately, and with firm, cool fingers, she drew the sheet of paper firom the envelope, opened it upon her desk, and added one line at the foot of thepago — a line written neatly and firmly, and con- taining only these words — ** You shall repay me in any manner, and at any time, that you may choose." Then she refolded the letter and replaced it in its envelope ; fitstening it securely now, holding her finger-tips upon the purple crest steadily for many seconds. And this letter, addressed to Scot Monkton, 94 THE SQTTIRE'S LEGACY. was to be posted by herself, before she went in the morning to tell Doris Egerton of the foul fiuspioioa which it had effiisively rebutted. 95 CHAPTER VL TUST at the time when Miss Levey >vas t) writing her letter, Anna Wakelej stood at her cottage door, har eyes vainly trjring to pierce the darkness, and her ears strained to catch any sound, however faint or distant. Not until the impenetrable darkness of the Winter night had enfolded the scene, had Anna ventured thus upon the outer step of her cottage. All day the key had been turned in the lock, and she had sat far back in the kitchen, her hands busy over her sewing, but her eyes heavy and uncertaiii, a&d hec heart aching in the silence and solitude. But now she had opened the door, as if the darkness — or the terror-^ which had for so many hours been telling upon her, had robbed her of all fear ; and, with one hand upon her heart, she stood gazing and listening. 96 THE squire's LEGAOr. Tet, when a step at last drew near, she started hurriedly back into the kitchen, and stood there with her fingers on the handle of the « open door. ** I heard you coming, Oliver, so I opened the door." He staggered across the threshold of the little dwelling, and its neatness and purity seemed to vanish in a breath. "Anybody bin here?" he inquired, sitting* down at once before the fire, his chin drop- ping on his breast, though he looked up at \m wife. "No." « Not all day V «No." " Then yeVe not 'eard about the doin's down at the plice-court !" « No." Quiet and indifferent the answers all sounded ; yet Anna's heart was beating with real pain in every throb, and it was only by an effort that she could hold back other words, which struggled to her lips in her impatient fear of what might follow. " D'ye want to know." THE squire's LEOAOT. 97 « Then it'll do ye good to wait a hit." **I can wait." The man looked up again from his sleepy gaze upon the fire — looked straight up into his wife's face with a curiosity which amounted almost to admiration. " Ye're well trained, my girl," he said then, in lazy satisfaction, '^ for ye don't worry a man's life out, like some of 'em do. Yes," he con- tinned, faUing back to his first position, ''that's over ; and the jury said as he got himself acci- dent'ly kiUed." "Accidentally killed." Anna repeated the words with a long-drawn breath of relief, and for the first time she looked folly into her husband's &ce. " That was their opinion," resumed Oliver, un- moved, " this momin' ; but by this time, so it strikes me, they're thinkin' diff 'rent." " What do you mean 1" "They're thinkin', FU warrant, as it's very odd as a man young Monkton wanted to get rid on, should ha' found his death on young Monkton's property, and should ha' left 'im the papers as a few days ago he'd ha' given all his VOL. in. H 98 THE SQUIRE S LBGAOY. money to get *old on. That^s what they'll be thinkin' about this time, I'll wager." "Do you imagine," asked Anna, standing stiff and white before her husband, " that the world will believe any lies you choose to invent — ^you, a man who has been in prison already nearly twenty times t You ?" "Go on," said Wakeley, in a tone of maudlin contempt. " Go on ; I like a little change sometimes — ^it does the best on us good. Bouse yerself and give it me. But let me tell ye, afore ye begin, as it's wasted time and fass. D'ye think other men can't go to gaol as well as me. It'll be more of a change for young Monkton than 'tis for me, but p'raps in time he'll get as used to it." " If you make any attempt to fix your vile suspicions upon the young Squire's head," said Anna, throwing out her clasped hands towards the man, " I shall go before those gentlemen — those very gentlemen who said to-day that Mr. Sourdy had died accidentally — and I shall tell them all I heard you and him arrange, about setting fire to the Green Pits. I shall teU them," she continued, heedless of her husband's fierce attempt to stop her, and raising her voice. THE SQXJIRB'S LEGAOT. 99 <*how you would haye done this on a certain night a month ago, only you were disturbed and alarmed ; and how you would have done it any night since, only you were in gaol, and he was away ; but that now you yourself— tired of waiting for the other man ^" ^^ You'll keep quiet, that's what you'll do," retorted Wakeley, all the more savagely that he had been made to listen so long. '^ Do ye think, even if ye was allowed to say it, that anyone 'ud believe such a tale ? Don't people know we was chums — me and the furriner — and would they believe I'd kill and burn 'im ? And then don't everybody know as he and Monkton was foes, and — don't that show it all f A fair jury'U try him. Nobody's goin' to say out what he's done ; we'll only jest get 'im asked in public, and leave the rest to a jury as 'ull know." " Who will do it ?" asked Anna, very low. ^'A relation of his own — a gent as had no more cause to love him nor I and the furriner had. He's in Minton now, and I don't expect he'll go far away till—" " Be quiet 1" cried Anna, shrilly, in her great misery. h2 100 THE squire's legacy. "Oh, ril be qtdet," said Wakeley, in a satisfied tone of conciliation ; ^' I've no wish to entertain je against yer will, and let me 'vise ye not to werrit yerself any more about what don't concern ye. He understands well enough what he's about — this other Monkton — and he'll manage without you, though ye mayn't think it, coz women is sich 'caps o' conceit. He'd managed without me too, I dur say, though I'll ^elp 'im a bit 'ere and there. Why shouldn't I!" "Youl" echoed Anna, with a scorn which made her eyes literally flame. ^' You, to whom Philip Sourdy owes his death 1" " Stuff 1" sneered Wakeley, though he glanced round him in involuntary terror of her clear words. ''His death's on his own shoulders, nobody else's, for the matter o' that. If he 'adn't gone in there, what matter the ricks bumin' ? But then " — ^with a sudden recollection of the bearing of his own words — " why should young Monkton have set fire to 'em, if the furriner 'adn't been there ?" '' If his death is on his own shoulders," said Anna, with a fuU cold gaze, under which he shrank uncomfortably, for all his rough defiance. THE squire's legacy. 101 **why are you going to try to lay it on the young Squire, who would neyer raise a hand against a hundred such men ?" ^^I ain't a-going to lay it on to him. I'm only goin' to 'elp a gent to look into it all." " I shall see that gentleman, and tell 'im all the truth/' said Anna, speaking with decision. " Now look 'ere," interposed Wakeley, rising at last, and approaching his wife menacingly ; ** ye'd better say no more about it. Ye're only talking like an idjet, and it'll be safer to say nothin' ; safer for ye a deal, and so I tell ye oncetfor all. There's nothin' you can say in any court in the world, as I've told ye before, as can 'urt me — ^no, not if ye invent the clever- est lie out. It can't be done, my girl, and so I tell ye oncet for all. If this gent as is staying at Minton — ^I've seen him along of the furriner more nor oncet, and I know he's sharp to do what he chooses — ^wishes to see jestice done agin young Monkton, why, I'd be soiTy to be one to atop 'im ; and, as I know the furriner and all about 'im better nor any one else 'ere does, why, I dur say he'll want my 'elp, and pay for it. I'll be glad enough, too, to balk young Monkton at last, I can tell ye, and 'special his 102 THE squire's legacy. sharp lawyer. HdIIo 1 What's the matter with ye?" "Nothing," said Anna, groping her way backwards from him. " Stay there ; nothing is the matter with me — nothing. Only — ^I must think how I can save him — stand back ! — and escape — ^from you I" 103 CHAPTER Vn. MISS LEYET had devoted evea more than the fashionable number of minutes to her oall at the Dower House, before she had, with sii£GiGient dexterity, paved the conyersational path to that one subject which was uppermost in her thoughts. Her brother had improved the opportunity with his usual complacence, and was even yet happily unconscious of Doris's weariness of his remarks so smilingly inane, and his compliments so broadly shallow. But Rose had risen to leave now, and had paused beside the window, making a casual remark upon the weather, as she looked out across the frost-- bound scene. In this unsettled posture, and in this last minute, she could throw into her pre- pared speech the spontaneity of .an after- thought. ^ Whenever I look across the park I fret that 104 THE squire's legacy. Mr. Monkton is not back at Eingswood. Don't you, Miss Egerton ?" " Scarcely so often as that," said Doris, " be- cause I look across the park so constantly from these windows." " And I suppose it is too late now," continued Rose, absently, " for him to return at all." " Why should we think so, Miss Levey ?" "Because But have you not heard about the inquest?" Rose spoke with an ease carefully and elabo- rately studied, but she could make it in no way akin to that natural ease with which Doris had questioned her. " Yes, I have heard about the inquest. Papa was there." "I told you Colonel Egerton was there, Rose," put in Bernard, wondering a little at his sister's preamble. " Ah, yes, so you did," assented Miss Levey, with every appearance of a sudden recollection. ** But, now I think of it, Bernard, you never told us what Colonel Egerton said of that disagreeable suspicion." " What suspicion ?" inquired Mr. Levey, who, in Doris Egerton's presence, invariably THE squire's legacy. 105 found his mind clear of irrelevant matters. " It is very pleasant for you if you have managed to forget already," observed his sister, pathetically ; ** I wish I could. But it has been a matter of such very painful surprise to me," she added, looking steadily into Doris's &ce, ^' that I shall never again be able to forget, I fear." ^* What is it f ' asked Doris, totally at a loss to understand her companion's manner. " I will tell you," Rose said, the kind con- cession an apparent e£Ebrt to her; *^only it seems so strange that you haven't heard it, when everybody else has. Bernard, how did it arise — this unpleasant whispering against Mr. Monkton?" **I don't know anything about it," replied Mr. Levey, pettishly. He was not gifted with many very tender or acute perceptions, but still he could see that Miss Egerton's face had changed a little, and that it would be better for Rose to say no more. But Miss Levey thought otherwise, and calmly — more calmly, even, than she could have framed the words in thought to herself— she rehearsed now that vile suspicion which had been planted 106 THE squire's legaot. by Stanley Monkton, in his jealousy and ava- rioe^ and by Oliver Wakeley, in his greed and malice. Very still Doris stood to listen, her eyes bright in their questioning incredulity ; but her heart beating so hurriedly that the tiny bunch of laurustinuB in her dress rose and fell as it might have done if the Winter breeze had been rocking it upon its stem. "Yes?" she queried, when Rose's Toice, apparently unmoved, had ceased. " It is very sad," Miss Levey added, wonder- ing why Doris should fancy she had not said all she meant to say. ^* It is a dreadM idea to consider Mr. Monkton guilty of such a crime — it would be such an awful crime 1" **The whole idea is like a jest — so very, very absurd!" Mr. Levey moved uneasily from that clear gaze of Doris's, which had passed from his sis- ter to himself. It would have been far better not to say a word, if this were the way in which it was to be taken. So very unpleasant it was to be made uncomfortable by a girl who could be BO pretty and so charming as Doris. "I am excessively sorry for the whole affair," THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 107 resumed Bose, Bugty with Doris for the haughti- ness which looked so curious upon her young- lips; **I'm sorry your coachman had that awkward evidence to give, and I'm sorry those letters and the photograph fell into Mr. Monk- ton's hands." " They were all utterly worthless to him ; Mr. Bradford told us so this morning.'' " So I suppose," returned Rose, with a slow^ cold smile ; '^ but how could Mr. Monkton know that until he got possession of them, and examined them ? Besides, it looks strange — to other people, I mean — that this Frenchman^ who had long worried Scot Monkton, should disappear so strangely." " Strangely !" echoed Doris, her white lips parting with frigid contempt. " Have you not heard the circumstances of his death, then, Miss Levey ?" "Oh, I myself know exactly how it must have occurred," replied Rose, with haste or annoyance — even her brother could not tell which — "You do not for an instant imagine that I doubt Mr. Monkton's innocence, do you. Miss Egerton? No, I am only telling you what is said. I suspect nothing; I only tell 108 THE squire's legacy. you what I hear. I am myself sure that Mr. Monkton need not fear things being looked into, and I trust that he will, in time, explain all that looks unpleasant and incomprehensible now." *'I think Mr. Monkton never does a thing which is incomprehensible — except, perhaps, to such natures as Oliver Wakeley's." " I only mean," put in Rose, hardly knowing what she resented in this quiet speech, ^' what looks so odd to others — certainly not to my- self." ** Certainly not to yourself V" questioned Doris, her clear, sad gaze full upon Miss Levey's face. " No." "Then nothing he does is ever incompre- hensible to tt«," the girl went on, very earnestly and gravely ; " and, as we cannot understand the thoughts of others, shall we let them go, please, as beyond our comprehension ? If wo do them injustice, we have no right to complain if they do him injustice. Shall we leave the matter, Miss Levev f " "I hope," resumed Rose, smiling coldly as «he offered Doris her hand in farewell, " that THE SQXTIRE'S LEGACY. 109 Mr. Monkton will himself make all clear soon. If it is true that he was really away from home when the fire broke out, and came home with the child afterwards (betraying no surprise at all) I hope he will still be able to give a reason for it.'' '^ Tes, I declare his coolness then was odd, was it not?" put in Bernard, with sudden energy, as the idea seemed to strike him for the first time — and he was apparently very grateful to it for doing so. *^ Ton have known Mr. Monkton a great deal longer than I have," said Doris, gently ; ^^ so of course you know, far better than I do, that he is one who would be very cool in a great crisis, and at any time would scarcely parade his feelings, whatever they were. Quite motionless Doris stood when her visi- tors had left her, her eyes far off beyond the bare Winter trees, and her hands closed to« gether upon her breast. But when, an hour afterwards, Colonel Egerton returned, and called her cheerily from the hall — he always did this, just as if it were not home until her bright face greeted him — she came up to him swiftly and lovingly, and there were no tears in her 110 THE SQUIRE S LEGACY. ^jeB, and no cloud upon her brow. '^ I know/' dhe had said to herself after that thought which, in its longing, had travelled steadily beyond the mists, and brought back faith and trust, ^^ that all will be ordered well." Though without Miss Levey's preparation it might have taken days and weeks for Doris to comprehend the base suspicions which were at first so faintly whiqpered in the neighbourhood ; yet, after that kindly preparation, it was cruelly easy to detect the tainted under-current which by no effort could she touch and purify, and of which it seemed to her, now in her restless new anxiety, that only Scot himself was ignorant. Calumny was altogether such a new lesson to the girl, in her innocent and loving life, that now, when it came so suddenly before her in its most hideous form, of course it was hard to learn the lesson. And no wonder was it that, in spite of the steadfast trust that all would be ordered well, the learning of this lesson sad- dened the young &ce whose richest beauty was its intense and ready sympathy. Colonel Egerton grew day by day more uneasy about his daughter. He took to watch- ing her anxiously, and keeping her beside him THE SQUIRE^S LEGACY. Ill by eyery loving firand. He proposed a house- ful of yisitors — a stay in Loudon — a trip to the Continent. He lavished tenderness upon her, and yet was not satisfied with her own dinging affection. He prognosticated the most mar- vellous success and fame for Kenneth, yet was not satisfied with her merry acquiescence. He proposed impossible diversions, and yet was not satisfied with her bright and gentle laugh. ^ It is of no use/' he would say to himself, only allowing the thought, after she had left hun. '^This trying suspense for Kenneth is wearing her out. Well, it must soon be over, at «ny rate, and, in the meantime, I will not worry her. She feels it almost more than he does himself. I wish he had stuck to his pro- fession like a man ; and yet — God bless him I — I never wish him other than what he is, when I see him with my darling." And so the thought would end with a smile, perhaps, as Doris re-appeared ; and she, trying so hard not to let a trouble of hers shadow her fetther's life, never knew that he missed any joyousness in her voice, or any gladness in her smile. And eyes one shade less loving than her father's would have been easily deceived by 112 THE squire's legacy. this brightness of the loving and unselfish spirit. One day, about two weeks after Miss Levey's call at the Dower House — a call which had not yet been returned — Colonel Egerton went up to London, and brought Miss Bradford home with him. His delight was so great to see how his motherless girl rejoiced at her aunt's coming, that he said, laughing, that Kenneth ought to have come too, to remind her that she was grown up. And so it amused them all when, on that very evening, Kenneth unexpectedly arrived. They had not heard the wheels stop at the door ; and, when he came first into the brilliant lamplight, there was a few moments' odd and unaccount- able pause before the glad and hearty greeting. Yet no one could have explained this pause. It had not been because Kenneth looked ill. As far as any of them could have told, it was a sudden acute sympathy with that feverish ex- dWnt of hapless which was at firstliterally painful in its intensity — but then not one of them ever did try to dissect it. Not even Doris, though from that very moment she was just the Doris of old days, whose life belonged to these TEOB SQUISB'fi MGAOT. 113 three who loTed her so well, and wm' made glad and perfect by their lore* She brought her thoQghta, perplexed and tangled^ to Ken- neth, and fiancied that he unraTolled them for her; while he felt that her rerj preeence strengthened himi and that her hopefidness was preparing him, as nothing else oould, for the test which was so near now. The date was fixed for the first representation of his drama ; and, though he was so enthusias- tiC| there were times of reaction after the long, tense strain when — hard as he struggled against it — ^he was weighed down by that depression of deep and colourless thought which, as long as genius lives, must alternate with its brilliant gleams of anticipation. And in every mood Doris was a true com- panion'^merry at times, making Kenneth fancy he was a boy again in the old Richmond garden, spending a half-holiday with his pet playmate — thoughtful at times, uttering only thoughts which, by their own pure brightness, ahowed him the sunshine on his own^— enthusiastic at times, with beautiful and ideal aspirationa, the very wildneie of wUdh calmed his oWli visionr ary fervour, and turned it into mirib — and quiet VOL. m. I 114 THE squire's legacy, at times, vnth a soothing in Her very silence, like the soft, mute touch of her hand on his. A true companion in every mood, because she thought always of him, and never of herself. *^ It is so sad, my darling," he said, one day, when he had been talking sadly — ^as he often did — of the wide lessons of failure that he had lately learned in the lives of literary men, ^^ to see the gradual death of hope^ even while the talents live. I suppose it must be easy to grow idle and heedless then ; and I should like (all through my life) to be able to help such as those, Doris, if I could." ^'Of course you can, Een, because you are industrious and earnest." '< You know whose influence has kept me safe, my darling. Do you remember, in Lilly's epi- logue to Campaspe — * Where the rainbow touch- eth the tree, no caterpillar will hang on the leaves ; where the glow-worm creepeth in the night, no adder will go in the day?' " *<Tour guard," said Doris, softjy, "is your love for your art, Een. But is it quite true that fio many men are struggling unnoticed ? Walk slowly, Kenneth, and let us think if there is not something even we can do." THE squire's LEOAOT. 115 It was just at that moment that Scot Monk- ton joined them, from the wood near which they were strolling in the pleasant wintry morning ; and he found out easily, in his keen, pleasant way, of what they were talking. Then, though he spoke without one shade of Kenneth's warmth and eagerness, Doris fancied that the subject had grown widely serious, and that it would be a lifelong memory with them all. That afternoon Mr. Bradford appeared at the Dower House, as suddenly and unexpectedly as his son had done a week ago ; and when Doris first looked into his harassed face, she knew what report had brought him to Eingswood. "You have heard, of course," he said, looking round with his grey eyebrows lowered, when in his impatience he had opened the subject at once. ** A glaring lie, which could reach me in town, must have passed you here." But still he spoke as if they had not, seeming glad to find vent for a little of the astonish- ment, and the wrath, and the contempt which had moved him so unusually, and yet which he was too practised a lawyer thoroughly to be- tray even here. "I am very glad you are come, and have I 2 116 THE squire's legacy. heard of this vile slander," said Colonel Egerton, hotly. ** I long to grapple the spy by the throat and expose him." ^^ Does the spy mean tiie lie itself or Wake- ley, the inventor of it ?" asked Miss Joan. " If it were only Wakeley's lie, it might soon be kicked to death," observed Mr. Bradford. ^* What I don't like is Stanley Monkton's share in it. The shaft he has poisoned is more keen, and cames farther. Tell me all the evidence £^gain, Egerton — slowly and coolly now, none of your heat-of-battle, please. First of all, what's this about your own coachman ?" ^^Yes," he assented, when Colonel Egerton had repeated his ooadiman's evidence. ^* And was Mr. Monkton really away when the fire broke out ?" ^* I see," he muttered, when he possessed all the particulars obtainable. ^* I see." ** What do you see, fiither ?" asked Kenneth, <e«mestly. '^What ^ean be his cousin's motive in fbis oontemptiUe slander of Soot Monkton ?" ^ ^^ Slfl&der I Do you suppose that is all ?" "What else r '^ K Scot Monkton is taken up on this sua- picion, and things go against him, he might THE squire's LEQACY. 117 make a deed of gift, to avoid confiscatioii ; and of course this fellow, being the only one of the namey expects to come in for the property — ^he is prett J sore of it indeed. And I can tell you that then' the mythical heir, for whose sake Kingswood is given up, may go to Erebus, for all the reigning Monkton will care." ^^ Then confiscation for felony is not abolished yett" questioned Colonel Egerton, thinking over this scheme. '' Not yet ; though in this case it would make no difference. The law is easily evaded, and, previous to conviction — ^if conviction bo pretty certam — a prisoner has only to make what we call a deed of settlement. But Scot Monkton," added the old lawyer, coolly, " shall execute no such deed, while T. & CJ Bradford are his legal advisers." '^ And this," fretted Miss Joan, " is all through those papers." "For justice' sake let us hear no more of that waste rubbish," interrupted Mr. Bradford. " The papers were wortii no more to Scot Monkton than Sotirdet's bat wsa. And they say, in their malice, how could he know this until he read ihem ? They say that, do they ?" 118 THE squire's LEGACY. he sneered. "Let them say it — fools like^ Levey, and rogues like Stanley Monkton. Let them say what they like. Let them say that he has cleverly got rid of his enemy, and stolen valuable documents. Let them say it till they are tired of its sound, if they like ; for we all know an old lawyer who wasn't born yesterday, eh 1 Doris," he added, with a sudden change of tone, " are you ready to go on an errand for me, my dear?" "Quite ready, Mr. Bradford," she said, ear- nestly. She had stood very white and silent through all this conversation; but now she came up to him, and looked as ^' ready " as she said. "Go down to the Black Birches, will you, and bring Miss Michal here to spend the rest of the day with you and Joan ? Bring the child too. Take no denial, for I want to talk to Mr. Monkton alone. I've a hundred things to discuss with him, besides this one wretched affair which brought me in such haste. Now go, my dear ; you will be more successful if you go alone. I cannot stand the presence of that tearful little woman and that staripg child. Bring them both safely away, and I will go THE squire's LEGAOY. 119 down there at once. Do jou mind walking alone, my dear ?" Doris nodded as she left the room ; she could not tell in words what a real relief to her the walk wonld be. ISO CHAPTER Vni. SOLITUDE was such a treat to Doris now, that she involuntaty began to linger as soon as Kenneth had closed the shrubbery gate behind her, and left her alone in the Larch Walk. The sun was low already, and the February moon, though her face was pale and wan, rose steadily and patiently even in the greater light, for she knew the night was coming, and her beauty would be brilliant when this fair glory of the setting sun should be for- gotten. Along the horizon the clouds stood like jagged and gigantic rocks against the soft green and golden light, and above stretched a wide, far view of silvery waters and a dreamy shore, which changed and moved and faded as Doris gazed, and yet was passing beautiful through all. THB squire's LEQAOT. 121 '< It might be/' she aaid» as she went slowly on, her eyes npan this fetir sky-pioture, ^*a glimpse of that angel-oountFy where we shall all loYe each other, and where nothing dark, or mean, or anspidoiis ^" As she pnt into words, even thus indireotly, the yague and constajut thought which pnzsled her, the recollection of her present errand started up before her with a new diatinetnees. Mr. Bradford had made so light of it, in giving her her final directions, that she conld scarcely haye left home with any idea of importance in her mission ; bat now its imaginary weight grew ont of her prerious thoughts, and so, from that moment, her step neyer slackened until she had her hand upon the garden gate at the Black Birches, and her eyes, upoa Scot, who, crossing the garden just then, met her. "Many happy returns of the day,. Miss Egerton." «Whyr ' " Why?" he echoed, laughing, aahe met her astonished glance. "Is it an ordinary black- letter day, then ?" Though her own knowledge of the motive of her visit blinded ber to any idea of his real 122 THE squire's legacy. pleasure (even though it shone in his eyes at that moment), Doris could understand him now ; and she answered, with gravity, that she wished him many happy returns of the day too — finding that easiest to say. ' Then she hurried, at his side, up the garden path, and past the open doorway, over which the faded leaf of the osmunda slowly perished ; though through all the ruth and ruin of the fire it had held its post. It was baking-day at the Black Birches, and Miss Michal, half-enveloped in a white apron of no contracted proportions, fluttered beside the oven door, sighing over each loaf as it came brownly forth to face the world, and contra- dicting Elizabeth with plaintiveness when the girl pronounced each one, as she carried it to the table, " crisp and light." *' I don't think, my dear," the little lady said, resignedly, when Doris, standing in the blaze of the bright fagot fire, had, anxiously and cordially, urged her request, " that I ought to leave home this afternoon ; there is so much to see to." *' Please, Miss Egerton, indeed there's nothing but what I can do," put in Elizabeth, really THE squire's LEGAOI. 12S wishful that her low-spirited mistress should have this change which Doris wished. Then Scot (he stood before the &got firo too, just with the old easy thoughtfulness, which left no room for either false pride or shame) joined his request to Doris's, and mado the entreaty easier for her; so that, at last. Miss Michal was tempted to acknowledge, with a pensive smile, that it was not of vital importance that she should *^ see to " much that afternoon, and that, if Doris liked such a dull companion What answer was needed beyond the girl's gladness at this consent? And, though Scot seemed to wonder a little at it, he seemed glad too. " It will do you such good, Aunt Michal," he said, warmly. " Now I will fetch Willy." ** I suppose you must," sighed Miss Michal^ "though I'm sure he won't have finished his copy. He ought to be able to write, oughtn't het she inquired of Doris, as Scot went quickly from the room, and they prepared to follow him. " Yet, when I set him a copy, ten to one Scot comes and takes him off — if I let him. And I'm sure the scenes are utterly 124 THE sqttire's legacy. I ridiculous which Scot makes of his reading lessons — ^if I let him be present. Mj onlj comfort is, that the child is so very grave himself, that it takes a great deal to distract him from what he is told to dow But I belieye that's the very reason Scot does it. He actually says that no little boy can possibly learn to read and write until he knows how to laugh and play. If the child wasn't really a sober, conscientious little thing, he would be utterly spoilt." Sober and conscientious I They had paused at the open door of the sitting-room, and Doris could not wonder another moment at the chosen term. The child sat rigidly in that painful attitude which is considered essential in a diild's first writing lesson. With every muscle strained, his fingers grasped the long pen, lest they should lose the position in which Miss Michal herself had placed them ; and, while his wide and anxious eyes were fixed conscientiously upon the far-away top line which was held up for his imitation, the slow tears fell singly upon the blotted Hnes, or on his strained, stiff finger-joints. And, all the while, the narrow little breast heaved with ex- THE SQUmx'S LEGACY. 125 citement, and the thin cheeks flcished and paled with longing, becanse Boot sat on the table opposite, urith his kind eyes full of fnn, and because the child had said, " No, he would not," when Miss Michal had told him not to think of anything else until the page was written. So, looking strenuously away from his great temptation, he handled his pen with infinite labour, and dared not set his fingers £ree, even to wipe away those hot tears which defieiced each line that he bad written. *• If the diild wasn't really a sober, con- scientious little thing, he would be utterly spoilt." It had been Miss Michal's own speech, as Doris well remembered ; yet Miss Michal herself had passed Doris now, and, bending beside the child, had taken the strained fingers in her own, pushed away his chair, and given him his freedom. When she and Willy went away to prepare for their walk, and left Scot and Doris alone together, Doris sat down before the blotted copy, and read the words aloud — "bid, bad, bud" — after which Scot, standing near her, reversed them solemnly—" bud, bad, bid " — 126 THE squire's leoaoy. ajidy when their different classification was exhausted, commented gravely upon their moral. And it might have been that, for both himself and Doris, the heart held no thought, and pain, and longing, no effort and no hope, beyond a new arrangement of these words. ** It seems to me," mnsed Miss Michal to her- self, as she passed back through the hall, ^^ that those two are laughing; yet I should think it would puzzle anyone to tell why." It would indeed 1 She had called Willy into the kitchen, and made him sit before the cheerful wood fire, while Elizabeth warmed and put on his boots ; and now the blaze from the dry branches leaped beyond the figures on the hearth, doing its best to leave a touch of its own warmth and strength upon Miss Michal's features, and of its own ruddy health upon the white face of the child. *' Listen, ma'am. Isn't it wheels ?" Elizabeth looked up to ask the question, while she knelt buttoning Willy's boots; but Miss Windish was drawing on her gloves placidly. "There was an enormous stranger on the parlour grate to-day," she said, " so I knew he THE squire's legacy. 127 coming. He can go into the parlour now to jour master, Elizabeth. Miss Egerton and I are going out at once." ^'And if it's a lady, ma'am?" inquired Elizabeth, rising, and stroking down her apron. " It's not a lady," rejoined Miss Windish, with mild fervour. "What is it you want, WiUy?" «* May I say good-bye, just for a minute, to Liath, please ?" asked the child, standing plead- ing in the firelight. Miss Michal nodded without a word, i^nd so he ran through the back door, and was bidding a solemn farewell to Liath in the Oreen Pits, when Miss Michal, small and limp, in a looped- up skirt and a boa of great length and foregone fashion, went in to join Doris. "Ah, yes, I thought so," she ejaculated, though she started a little at the loud knocking on the front door. " I heard a carriage pass round from the farm gate. I dare say it's Major Porter. Scot, shall you go out with him if he wants you ?" "Impossible," returned Scot; and then he <^ught himself smiling, because there had darted into his mind a fancy that Doris had waited 128 THE squire's legacy. almost breathlessly for his reply. *'I cannot leave home to-day. But why should it be Porter? Certainly that was not his knock. Soldier as he is, he would never discharge snch a cannon at the door." ^^ Are you ready then, Miss Windish ?" asked Doris, bright and content in the relief of find- ing that Scot would be at home to see Mr. Bradford. « And is Willy ready f" ^* Tei, he's ready," sighed Miss Windish ; <' but then he has to bid good-bye to Scot, and if he's as long over it as he generally is " The little lady paused abruptly, and, in her soft and silent way, moved back from the door as it was opened to admit two visitors. She had not been mistaken in tiiat infallible augury of the morning, for here was emphatically a " stranger ;" and yet she had been deceived too, for only a single banner had waved upon the bar of the grate, and here were two strangers. They both glanced round at her, and in her quiet way she bowed-*« small, j&agile figure, but a calm little lady, nevertheless, in this mo- ment of ample astonishment. And Doris, sitting at the taUe, softly turned the pages of an open book, and waited. THE squire's LEGA07. 129 Scot had risen from his impromptu seat on the arm of the conch near Doris, but he leant there, waiting too. To him also these yiaitors were strangers, and — quizzical a little, though scarcely curious — he wsdted their errand. ^'Mr. Monkton/^ said one of the men, the elder of the two, pausing near the door, and speaking in haste, as if to forestall his com- panion, ^' I am Superintendent Davies, of Minton, and this is police-constable Hewis. You, I pre- sume, know why we are here. It is a most unpleasant business, but, if you will understand, to begin with ^" " What he understands, to begin with, won't make any difference in the unpleasantness of the business, I fear, and won't alter our warrant," interrupted the younger man, approaching Scot^ '^ He shall read it himself if he likes, but we of course must do our duty." "What is that?" "Arrest you," said the constable, stepping up to Scot, and standing straight before him as he spoke. The words had scarcely left the man's lips, when Scot rose from his leaning posture, threw his weight on his left leg, and, raising his VOL. in. K 130 THE squire's legacy. closed right hand, struck out straight as au arrow, and knocked the constable to the ground. It was done so promptly as well as coolly, and so surely, as well as easily, that it was no wonder the second man did not hasten to shorten, between himself and Scot, that space in which his faUen comrade lay. " Step over him,'* advised Scot. *' Come, I am ready." With a shriek of fear Miss Michal started for-- ward. " Oh I Scot, my dear, oh 1 Scot, remember they are two to one 1" "Two to one, certainly," said Scot, very calm in the white heat of his passion; "two cowards." " Of course, Mr. Monkton, if you behave to us in this manner," began the elder man, coming slowly forward, " I shall be forced to use means to ensure your submission." "Handcuffs?" asked Scot, in a tone which made Doris's heart grow like lead, in literal fear of its curbed fury. "A capital idea to insure safety for you both I Be cautious ; your friend will have recovered his breath in a few minutes. THE squire's LEGACY; 131 and then, perhaps, if you come together, and with the irons in your hand, you may venture to do your duty. Two to one is the usual ad- vantage on the side of innocence and justice. Try it." " We had no wish to use these," said the Superintendent, opening the handcuffi with evi- dent unwilHngness. ^^ Even ssdnts and martyrs are at times forced to act against their wish, for the good of others," observed Scot, in a tone of easy banter, which was so horrible to Miss Michal that she gave vent to another shriek. " I would still rather not do it, if you would give us your word," the man resumed, glancing pitifully down on the little lady. » •* Oh I you had better us0 them 1" returned Scot, lightly. " They are heavy toys to have carried so far for no purpose." "ff you had not used violence " "But I did," the young man interrupted, tranquilly; "so take refuge in your life-pre- servers, because life is so precious." " Mr. Monkton, for your own sake " " That's kind — that's very kind and thought- ful of you," Scot said, still in that bantering k2 132 THE squire's legacy. tone which was so terrible to Miss MichaL " Do it for my sake, pray. I read to-day of a struggle between a madman and his keeper, which ended in the madmans death. They called it wilful murder. What matter f They are simple words enough, and only two of them. I daresay you are used to such sounds, and not afraid oi whispering them into a prisoner's ear, eh? Yes, put the irons on — for my sake." "Mr. Monkton, if you would kindly re- collect that we are here simply in the discharge of our duty," began the elder man ; but by this time his companion had taken the manacles, and, opening them, had advanced, without further hesitation, to put them on. Scot coolly lifted his hand, and laid his fingers on the iron rings. " Are they strong enough ?" he asked ; and in the next instant, swift as thought, with a true backward aim, he had flung the handcuffs through the closed window behind him. As they went crashing through the glass, Doris suddenly fell on her knees beside Miss Michal, who sat staring into Scot's face, with her eyes dry and wild. This scene was so far THE squire's legacy. 133 more terrible to the girl than anyone could guess, that it was little wonder she hid her face and sobbed, even here, where no comforting words could be uttered. For the first time, Scot turned his eyes upon her, as the quick, suppressed sobs f^U on that momentary silence ; then he told the men that fae was ready. ^^ Ton need not excite yourself" he remarked to the younger constable, who had begun to mutter angrily to his companion; ^^I am coming without the handcuffs. What have you waiting ? — a prison van V " Only a cab, Mr. Monkton," put in the elder man, hurriedly intercepting any other reply. "How very pleasant 1" said Scot, pr^aring to leave the room ; while even the rougher of the men felt, through all his distrust, that close watchAilness was hardly needed now, for Mr. Monkton evidently intended to accompany them as unresistingly as if he were really bound. But at the door Scot paused. " Go and take your own seats," he said to the men, in a voice so calmly authoritative that it was plain to see that, just then, he had 1 34 THE squire's legacy. forgotten their errand, and his own position. The elder man passed on, as if glad to do so; but, as his companion made no step forward, the words which Scot had meant to say died in his heart, unuttered. But Doris had risen now, and, for a minute, her eyes met his, with a long, wistful promise in their gaze — the promise of an undying trust, which shone there unknown even to herself. "Do you not drive past the gate of the Kingswood Dower House." There are moments in our lives when action overtakes thought, and this was one for Doris» She stood beside the policemen, with a winning gentleness which even the rougher of them could not resist. " Yes, we go that way, of course, miss." "Then will you kindly drive that lady so far ? She and I were just going there when you arrived, and she will hardly care for the walk now, while T can walk very well, and will meet her there. I shall be so much obliged if you will do this." The men, though astonished a little, assented readily, and Miss Michal, far beyond the power of astonishment now, was assisted by Doris THE squire's legacy, 135 herself into the seat beside which Scot would presently take his place. " Good-bye," she said then, laying her hand in his, and leaving it in his clasp till the few simple words were said; "I will give your good-bye to Willy, and take care of him. At the gate at home you will see that I shall have left another message." She had fancied she was going to cheer and encourage him; to remind him that injustice never prevailed for long, and that he would soon be back; or to utter, in a whisper, her own hope and prayer. But no; those were the only words that came, even though the men stood back, and she could speak unheard. And Scot answered nothing but goodrhye; for the words of wrath and irony were stayed while her sad eyes met bis, and her hand lay so trustingly within his own. Before the cab was out of sight, rolling along beside the river to the iron bridge in the park, Doris had crossed the stream, and was flying up the Larch Walk ; running as she had not run since — a little child, unfettered by long skirts — she had proudly and breathlessly com- peted with Kenneth in merry races down the Bichmond garden. 136 THE SQUIR£'S LEGACY. "Lloyd,** she caUed, with faiKng breath, summoning her own groom as she passed the stables, "have the horses harnessed in the phaeton for Mr. Bradford — as quickly as pos- sible. Help Evans yourself^ that not a moment mav be lost 1" Mr. Bradford, pacing the hall, impatient for Doris's return, put his arm round her as she darted up to him, and supported her while she regained her breath ; but, as soon as he com- prehended what she had to tell, he put her from him without a word, and left the house. Then Doris, knowing he understood where to meet Scot, crept out again— without seeking Kenneth or her father or Miss Joan — and hur- ried back to the farm. And when she met little Willy wandering about the house, looking wistfoUy and patiently for Scot, she lifted him in her arms, and cried over him as if her heart were breaking. 137 CHAPTER IX. THE kitchen of Wakeley's cottage was as silent as if it had been unoccapied, yet Anna was not alone this evening, as she was generally. With her arms thrown npon the table, and her face hidden on them, she sat as she had sat ever since Doris Egerton had come to her out of the darkness, white and quiet as a ghost, to tell her of Scot Monkton's arrest. Again and again Doris had called her by name, and now, nervous and impatient, the girl rose and stood upon the hearth. When Anna lifted her face at last, Doris started to see its deathly pallor, and the glazed dimness of her eyes. ^^ They'll get him free," she said, ri^ng to face Doris, and speaking slowly, as if in bewil- derment ; " they will be clever men — they must set him free 1" 138 THE squire's legacy. " Surely you know," observed Doris, " why I came to you to-night, Anna? I could not rest until you had released me from that promise, which I made when you bade me warn Mr. Monkton to watch in his stack-yard. What you feared then, must give a clue to the source of this fire. Release me from my promise." "I dare not," the woman answered, in a whisper. *'Then I must break it. Even if that be Wrong to do, the keeping it would be far more wrong." " You promised 1" cried Anna, eagerly. " Miss Egerton, remember that you promised, before I told a word." " I remember," Doris said, " but I will break that promise, before the innocent shall suffer for the guilty." " He will not — he cannot," cried Anna, push- ing the hair from her wan face, and holding her hands upon her temples. " They dare not touch him I Who will dare lie and say the Squire murdered the man he'd never given two thoughts to? They'll be clever men — they'll know right from wrong, and truth from false- hood." THE squire's legacy . 1 39 " We know right from wrong, and truth from falsehood too/' said Doris, with grave em- phasis, '^ and we must do our part now." " I cannot 1" cried Anna, quick and shrill. " All will be right for him because he is innocent, but, if I " "Anna," said Doris, very solemnly, as she drew the woman's hot hands from her face, and held them in her own, " what do you fear t Tell me, while we two are here alone." The woman shook her hands free, and started back. " Fear /" she echoed, her eyes wild and dim in their fixed gaze on the girl's face. " Fear ! You don't know what the word means. How can you ? You would have been dead long ago if you had had to learn the lesson as Tve learnt it. I am young still, as years go ; but I seem to have lived through twenty lives — because the fear and shame which crowd every second that I live, drag it to a long day. What do I fear, you say I I do not know — I never know. And yet what is there that I do not fear? I — I cannot grasp it," she whispered, again pressing her hands upon her head. " I cannot see it ; and yet it is about me always." 140 THE squire's legacy. *' It is your husband's presence," said Doris, speaking very clearly. "It is a hard life for you, Anna ; but, when he is—" The awkward and hurried opening of the •cottage door interrupted Doris, but she did not move or shrink when Wakeley entered, and turned and locked the door behind him. ** What's that theer man skulkin' outside for !" he asked, roughly addressing his wife. '^ The man outside," said Doris, with no tre- mor in her voice, while Anna took up her work in a sudden, unnatural calm, *' is my servant." " There's no call to leave men skulkin' out- side," commented Wakeley, while through all his roughness it was evident that the reply had been a great relief to him. " I don't care for 'em about my cottage." " You need not mind this one," said Doris, undaunted, for her clear gaze had read both the man's apprehension and his reUef. « Of conrse. when we see an innocent man arrested (as Mr. Monkton was to-day) it makes the most inno- cent of us timid ; but still only the man who is guilty of what they lay to the Squire's charge need be really afraid — ^as you were just then." " If— you — please," said Oliver, insolently THE squire's legacy. 141 accenting his words, •*yon'll leave no sneak- in' men about my door agin. That's all I've got to say to ladies as come wheer they ain't "wanted." Though her eyes were brilliant with passion, she suppressed all other trace of it, and left the cottage as soon as Oliver had unlocked the door. But Anna overtook her as she reached the garden gate. " Miss Egerton," she whispe^^ed, breathlessly, "I said you'd left this behind you — Oliver isn't sober enough to have noticed what it was — I was so quick. It's his lantern — at least it waa the Frenchman's. It turns dark in a minute ; but it's a good light when you like. And your man wiU carry it. Here are matches. Oh! Miss Egerton " Anna paused here, drawing her breath in gasps, and so Doris, in simple compassion, could not pass on without a few words of comfort. But, for the brave, warm-hearted girl, these words were very cold and very quiet, and she did not offer to accept the lantern Anna prof- fered so anxiously. The woman would not, however, take this tacit refusal, and, after light- ing it herself; with shaking fingers, she put it 142 THE squire's legacy, into the hands of the butler who waited fop Doris. '^ I can have it back at any time," she said, in the same hurried whisper. " We don't use it. Mj husband never goes out to stay late now ; he never has been out later than this since — since the shock of our lodger's death. Please be careful how you go, Miss Egerton. How xdark it is I" There is some skill required to use a dark lan- tern properly, and Fowles — ^&om total lack of experience — ^proved himself deficient in this skiU. " Turn it dark, please," said his young mis- tress, when they neared the bridge in the park, " or put it out — that will be the best. Our eyes will soon grow accustomed to the darkness, and we shall find our way more easily." So Fowles drew back the slide of the lantern, ?tnd blew out the candle — just in time for the slight act to be of untold importance. " Do ye think that ye're in church to-night, that ye sit so still and mum ?" Oliver Wakeley was smoking his pipe on the hearth, with a jug of beer at his elbow ; but it THE squire's legacy. 143 was evident that, accustomed though he was to his wife's silence, he had resented it ever since Miss Egerton's departure. " No, I feel as if I should never be in church again." "Ohl you'll git over that," said Wakeley, with contempt. " Git supper now, and come to the fire ; I'm sick o' seein' ye with a needle alwis in yer 'and. Do ye never spend any money as ye don't earn f " « Never." " Well, my girl, if you like it so, why, like it so. I'll say nothin' agin it, so long as I spend mine for myself. Now git up and make a man comfortable. I'm 'ome so reg'lar in the evenin's now — why don't ye show ye're glad on it! What did the Colonel's daughter say ?" " She told me about the Squire being taken up. " Yes," said Wakeley, with a chuckle, " he's safe for a bit, wheer he's put me afore now. And she come to tell ye about it, did she ? She must a thought ye cared a good bit about 'im. What did ye say yerself ?" " Nothing." " That wur wise." he muttered, with a laugh. 144 THE squire's legacy. as he shook the ashes from his pipe ; ** ye're not an idjet, Anna, like most women is. I can see ye know what's best for ye. Why, o' course," he continued, bringing his hand heavily down upon his knee, " ye must know well enough by this time that if ye made up no end o' clever lies, it 'ud be no good. To begin with, nobody 'd believe a word, coz me and the furriner was chums, and coz 'im as wanted the papers took care to get 'em, And to end with, the law wouldn't let ye say any thin', if ye wanted to ever so bad. It's a good law, my girl, ain't it, as leaves me and you in peace together? Come, let's have a bit o' supper. Don't ye feel pleasant and easy, now ye know it's all taken out o' y'r 'ands, and ye can't 'elp yerself !" "If my words would be of any use," said Anna, speaking quickly, as she moved to pre- pare the meal, '' I should go and tell what you have often threatened to do — ^and what 1 heard you and Mr. Sourdy arrange to do — at the Green Pits. And I should tell about your return on the night of the fire. But it would be of no use, you say." "No use," repeated Wakeley, roughly. " Draw me some more beer." THE squire's legacy. 145 She went at once. Since he had taken to retnm home earlier, she had left off all her old arguments. When she returned with the beer, she saw in a minute how he was resenting her last words, leaning back in his chair, his hands in his pockets, and his chin on his breast. "Put it down," he said, surlily, without look- ing up ; " I don't care to see ye about 'ere." " Will you come to supper f " «No." So Anna went back to her seat behind him, and for nearly an hour there was no sound in the cottage except the heavy, regular ticking of the Dutch clock. Then she rose and put away her work. "You are sure you will eat no supper, Oliver!" "No." " Then I will put it away." She went quietly and wearily about the task, but her face was calm and patient as it used to be, bearing no trace of the passion Doris had witnessed. And presently Oliver pushed back his chair upon the^ hearth, stood a minute to steady himself, and then felt his way up the steep cottage staircase^. VOL. in. L 146 CHAPTER X, MR. BRADFORD paced slowly backwards and forwards in his own private office in Cray's Inn Sqnare, pausing now and then in his walk, while a young man, who was the only other occupant of the room, wrote rapidly in a pocket- book which lay open on the table. *^ No prospect of hunting out a confederate, I suppose, sir !" "None," was the lawyer's curt rejoinder. But then he paused. "The hunting out re- mains with you," he said. " For Heaven's sake, hunt out all you can I But you'll find the rascal acted too cunningly to trust another rascal." '' When he is away, his wife is alone at the cottage ?" " Yes. I suppose I have said all now." THE squire's legacy. 147 " I think so," the young detective answered, for, from the moment Mr. Bradford had left his seat and begun that slow march, he had known that his instructions were at an end. A shrewd decipherer of character always, he had long ago read the peculiarity of the old lawyer who sometimes employed him; and he knew that this restlessness never belonged to that concen- tration of thought which he gave to his profes- sion. He must have some harassing and per- plexing thought behind. "Therefore," decided the young detective with himself, *^ he is anxious about this, beyond the usual anxiety for a client's case." " About the pony, Mr. Bradford ?" " It win be put into your charge at Enston station to-morrow night. Go down in a groom's undress. Colonel Egerton will have a suit of livery ready for you." ** As I go to Eingswood an utter stranger," said the young man, coolly, *^ I shall, of course, know nothing of what has occurred, except what all the world is supposed to know. But, as I should like to be able to judge of what I am told, will you look over those first notes, and tell me if they are correct?" VOL. ip. L 2 148 THE squire's legacy. t ** Quite correct,^ returned the lawyer, running his shrewd eyes down the lines. ^ The recog- nizances are his own, Colonel Egerton's, Major Forter'Sy and mine — two thousand pounds each. Heavy as the sureties seemed, half a dozen gentlemen came forward at once to offer them." '* And you think, Mr. Bradford," said the detective, quietly, as he replaced the book in his pocket, ^'thai — setting aside any ques- tion of Mr. Stanley Monkton's ultimate design with regard to a commission of lunacy— they can really go through the case on a charge of manslaughter?" "Emphatically yes. The prosecutor is as clever as he is vindictive, and the supposition (outrageous as it is) that Scot Monkton set fire to his bam. to disable Sourdet, during his sleep there, vnll find a good deal of corro- borating evidence, I foresee. Whether that evidence will bear daylight in a Court of Law, remains for us to prove. The notion of an arrest on such a charge, was a neat little con- ception, fresh from the birthplace of lies, and you had better appreciate its " T5E squire's legacy. 149 "Exactly," put in the young man, coolly, in Mi% Bradford's pause ; ." that is the natural conclusion of a meditative mind." He left the office then, and Mr. Bradford put up his papers, and turned his chair to the fire, waiting with an air of expectancy. " At last I" he muttered, when a cab came dashing up the Square. ^^I think the trains that bring Kenneth are always the slowest trains on the face of the earth." But there shone a pleasant light in the old man's eyes, for all his grumbling. "Weill" he said, when his son entered.. And Kenneth seemed to understand that even the tone was a welcome. "I have done all I had to do, father," he said, standing opposite to him, by the fire. " I have paved the way for young Baine at the Dower House. Colonel Egerton folly compre- hends." " Egerton always was of the right sort," put in the old lawyer, parenthetically, " and so is his daughter. What of Mn Monkton?" "He is just as ever he was, I think/' returned Kenneth, puzzled a little, it would seem. " He is wprking as usual on the farm, 150 THE SQXJIRE'S LEGACY. and that child is with him constantly — whether that's most his doing, or Mr. Monkton's, I don't know, but I fancy it is the child's. A delicate little fellow he appears, with hardly any strength or spirit ; yet, instinctiyely, he seems to know that Scot MonktoB is under a cloud, and clings to him the more. You hardly credit it, father, but really I believe what I say." " I suppose you do," assented Mr. Bradford, grimly. " I don't suppose that boy's experience has extended yet to anybody who is not under a cloud ; but never mind him. Did you explain to Mr. Monkton how Baine was to go to the Dower House as groom, with that new pony which Doris is to lend the child ?" ^ Yes ; and he said the rides would do the boy immense good." ** Pish ! You told him that it was the young fellow who was with me in San Remo? — that he was only half French, and that I had great confidence in him ?" "Yes." " I told you to speak particularly of my wish to trust Doris, as well as her father, with the secret, and ask his consent — did you?" "Yes ; but he didn't take any notice until I THE SQXTIRE'S LEGACY. 151 repeated the question^ and then he only said ' Yes: " "And what more did you expect! Go on," said the lawyer, impatiently, after a pause. " You've learnt more than that, surely ; make haste. Do the people avoid him at all ?'' "There are some who do, as you yourself told me before, father ; but there are plenty who don't. They say Miss Levey is perpetually driv- ing or riding to the farm." " While her coxcomb brother, I suppose, keeps far enough away t" "T believe he does. Then of course Aunt Joan, and Doris, and Colonel Egerton '' " Oh LI understand all that. How does Miss Michal get on !" "Not too smoothly," replied Kenneth, with an irrepressible smile. " She takes exception to her present lines, and — ^to do her justice — to Mr, Monkton's too." • " Trust her I Liath is still there, I suppose!" " Certainly ; but he seems in a kind of dream all the time. He cannot forgive himself for having picked up those papers, just to balk Wakeley. And his overpowering wonder is how anyone could possibly imagine that his master 152 THE squire's legacy* woald guess the letters to be in a metal case." '^ So I should think ; but we will leave that question to our counsel, Kenneth." **rve no fear for the verdict, father. Mr. Monkton is innocent, and they will pronounce him 60." *^ But that's not quite enough, lad. There's a guilty man somewhere, and he must be pro- nounced so too." " Oh, I almost forgot to tell you one thing, father/' said Kenneth, as they left the office, *^ though it was no message. I'm sure Doris is very anxious to see you." "All right. I want to be down there for an hour or two before Baine arrives. Reynolds will see about his departure, and you must stick to the office to-morrow." The morning train by which Mr. Bradford travelled stopped at the village station, but, though a fly was waiting there, he chose to walk on to Kingswood. He could, by taking a round, pass Oliver Wakeley's cottage, and so he took this round ; but presently, to his great surprise and delight, in the field-path which skirted the woods, he came upon Doris. So pleased was he to see her just then, that he could not show THE squire's legacy. 153 very much vexation when she told him that she had little Willj with her, but that he had olimbed over into the wood to look for primroses, "Leave him there," said the old lawyer, promptly, " Why don't you get Scot Monkton to go strolling about with you, or why don't you ride with him, or tempt him to soften his brain over croquet, or — anything f You would, if you were his true friend." ^' Mr. Bradford," interposed Doris, a crimson wave rushing over her face « I do try indeed— indeed I do ; but you have no idea how impos- sible it is. He never will come; and yet he isn't cold or discourteous ; he is just as he al- ways was. I — I bring Willy, because he will come to the Dower House to fetch him ; and— and that way only can I win him." "My dear," said the old man, touching her cheek with tenderness, as the vivid colour faded, *^ I see. I didn't mean to be so hasty. I ought to know by this time how to trust to a woman's wit where tenderness is needed. 1 came round here to take Wakeley's cottage on my way to the Dower House; and now I'm very glad I came." "And I am very glad I met you. I want to ask you something, please." 154 THE squire's legagt. ** A hundred things, if you like, my dear ; I came prepared to hear something from you. Begin at the beginning." " Did Mr. Monkton ever tell you," asked Doris, standing earnestly before the old lawyer, while he waited in the path, *^ that he had once, just six weeks ago, been warned to — to — about any danger threatening him, from anyone in the Green Pits, in the night t" '^What do you mean? Don't speak like a stammering school-girl. It's as easy to say a thing out straightforwardly as to bungle over hints. Now then, what was itt" '' Did he tell you," said Doris, trembling so much as she spoke, that the old man laid his firm hand on her shoulder, " how I warned him one night that he must watch his stack-yard through the darkness ?" **Tellt Not he!" cried Mr. Bradford, an- grily. " I thoroughly believe the man is mad I" "He did not tell!" questioned Doris, won- dering. '^No ; being the wisest thing he could have done, of course he didn't do it." "Perhaps," said Doris, her raised face very THE squire's legacy. 155 wistful) *^ he thought, as it turned out a false alarm, there was no meaning in it at all ; and perhaps he remembei'ed that I said I had pro- mised ; and — and he respects that promise. But I have thought, Mr. Bradford, and thought ; and — it seems to me more right to tell." " The promise was wrung from you on some wise plea, I daresay, my dear," observed the old lawyer, kindly ; " but you are right now to break it, if it can help us to track a scoundrel, and prove the honour of an honourable man. WeU, who won the promise from you — ^Anna Wakeley, was it!" The blunt question was a great help to Doris, and in a few minutes Mr. Bradford knew all she wished to tell, of that scene between herself and Anna Wakeley. He made no com- ment upon it when she finished ; but, with a cheery call and whistle, he summoned Willy from the woods, and, slipping Doris's hand through his arm, walked down the slope, chatting with them both, just as if his thoughts were not busy and engrossed. • When they reached the row of poplars behind Wakeley's cottage, Doris turned aside with her little charge, while Mr. Bradford walked through 156 THE squire's legacy.- the vsricket gate ; and, when Anna answered his prompt rap upon the door, he entered the kitchen without hesitation. If he had felt that what he wished to say to her had needed a way paved for it, he would have left this errand for Monsieur Baine, or for Doris herself, to fulfil. But the decision upon which he had been acting when he met Doris — to look in and hear Anna's account of her hus- band — ^was strengthened now by what he had heard, and he had too deeply rooted a confi- dence in himself, to fear saying any more than he need — even if he spoke, now that suspicion was so thoroughly roused — or to betray any motive in his visit if he should chance to find Wakeley at home. Watching her keenly, while he told her with unmistakable distinctness what he had heard^ he could plainly see what Anna must have suffered before her nerves could have become thus thoroughly unstrung. So his voice gradu- ally lost its hardness, and, when he felt his errand* over, it was almost gently that he repeated the words which, when he had first uttered them, had brought that fit of trembling which she could not stay. THE squire's LEaAcr. 157 •* fou have it in your power, you see, to clear the Squire's name entirely." " But Oliver 1" she cried, when her fear found voice at last. " Oliver would " "Oliver should do nothing to harm youj I will promise that," said the lawyer, solemnly. " But you forget," she opposed, with an eager interrogation in her tone, ^^ all I do is useless — useless in sparing Mr.Monkton, useless in — — " "All you do shall be made most useful in sparing Mr; Monkton," returned Mr. Bradford, quietly and kindly passing over the other words as if he had not heard them." I shall make it useful." <* But— if Oliver ^" ^^ Just at present,." said the old laywer, in his cool tone of business, " we have to remove this vile suspicion from the Squire, as far as each of us can. You have your share to do, and you must do it. Why should you fear your hus- band ? Is your life in " " Life I" — she echoed with an involuntary cry. " Do you think life is so easy and so happy for me, that I would do a wrong to keep it ? Life 1 No, that could hardly be a precious thing for me to hold, for its own sake. But, if Oliver, in 158 THE SQUIRE S LEGACY. his anger Do you ever," she questioned, breaking off her sentence, and whispering the words through her teeth; ^^oould you ever dream what it was to live with a phantom fol- lowing every step — a ghastly phantom whisper^ ing in your ear just one word — always the same word — ^Murder'? And we are husband and wife^— one of God's own ministers made us so long ago — how many years ago V" " Hush !" said the old lawyer, compassionate- ly. "You are a young woman yet; and I daresay there is a long and pleasant life in store for you." " For me 1" echoed Anna, wearily. " Impos- sible ! You see — you see," she said, her white lips framing the words with diflSiculty, *^ I can do nothing. I am helpless in this. Oliver always said so." " You know now what you can do, and what it is your simple duty to do. While you do your duty," the old laWyer added, gravely, "you may leave the rest to God 1" She covered her face as he spoke, and had not lifted it again when, after telling her he would leave her to think of her first step, he quietly left the cottage. THE SQUIRE S LEGACY. 159 " Poor thing !" he muttered to himself^ as he went slowly on into the park. '^ Can she ever outlive, and forget, what this scoundrel has made her bear? Husband and wife ! And we think there is no greater sorrow than to lose those we love by — death. How blind we are 1" Mr. Bradford had another errand to fulfil be- fore he gave himself rest ; and, when he had left the park, and turned into the high-road, he walked on, steadily and swiftly towards Comely Place. When he was within about half a mile of the house, a pony-carriage passed him at a rapid pace, and then stopped. Its occupant, Miss Levey, looking back, and pretending to recog- nize him with surprise only at that moment, drew in her ponies, and offered her hand. " Let me drive you, Mr. Bradford — do," she said, with her ready smile, as the tiny groom went to the ponies' heads. An uncommon grimness fell upon the old man's face. He was walking for his own plea- sure, he told her, and then thanked her, and stood back. ^^It is quite a relief to see you," she said; *^ we cannot help having such confidence in you. 160 THE SijUIRE'S LEGACY. You can scarcely guess how thoroughly we all depend upon you to restore Mr. Monkton to his old place and his old spirit." "An impossible restoration, Miss Levey." "Oh, Mr. Bradford, whyT ^'Because he has never lost either his old place or his old spirit." *' I see what you mean," said Rose, looking down with an appearance of deep thought. " But still I am sure you must understand me too ; you will bring him safely through this wicked trial, won't you ?" "Certainly — to please you." "Oh I I wish," she exclaimed, ecstatically, before she had even comprehended this reply, ^^I could help in this, Mr. Bradford. Do tell me one thing — ^I have such confidence in your opinion, and I am so anxious — will it — ^will it be a very expensive process to ensure Mr. Monkton's acquittal ?" " Very. I once knew a lawyer value his ser- vices as high as six-and-eightpence I" "Ohl Mr. Bradford," cried Eose — even she aware now of having blundered awkwardly — "you have quite mistaken me; indeed I was not thinking of you in any light beyond Mr. THE squire's LEOAOT. 161 Monkton's particiilar fijend, and the one person on whom we all entirely depend to prove his innooence. Please understand that, because I want to ask you a great favour." ^^ Always think twice before you ask a favour. Miss Levey," interposed Mr. Bradford, his cool- ness successfully concealing his surprise. "I have thought twice— ^I have thought a hundred times," she returned, leaning nearer to him, and flushing unusually in her nervous eagerness* ^ I have a large fortune, Mr. Brad- ford, and I should be so happy if, by the help of any part of it, I could free him." Mr. Bradford waited for her last word, and then he raised his hat as he answered her. " The law will free him, Miss Levey — ^that's the divinity that shapes our ends. Don't let me detain you." '^ It seems to me,'^ muttered Hose to herself, as she drove on, *^ that that old man is jealous." And then her angry thoughts went back to the last time she had made this offer of her fortune for Soot Monkton, and she recalled with burning cheeks the few courteous words of his written reply. But the narrow nature, working so piti- VOL. m. M 162 THE squire's legacy. fiilly for its own ends, had not learnt its lesson yet. No further thought did old Mr. Bradford waste upon this interview ; he indulged only in a meditative observation as the phaeton rolled out of sight — V I forget which is which^ but I think that must be Susannah. It's a long name, and she's a long person I" With as much coolness as if he were a con- stant visitor at Comely Place, did the lawyer walk up to the door, and pull the heavy handle of the bell which hung beside it. But, when a grave, white-haired servant-man opened to him, he asked for Miss Chamberlain with a note of real anxiety in his voice. ^' Miss Chamberlain," the servant said, when he returned to the room where he had left Mr. Bradford while he bore his message, " begs to be kindly excused, as she; is not very well." " Let me trouble you to go once more," urged Mr. Bradford, " and carry her this." He wrote a few lines and folded the paper, and sealed it at a writing-table near ; and then, while it was carried to Margaret, be waited placidly. THE SQUIRE^S LEGACY. 163 When the man returned, to say that Miss Chamberlain woi:dd see Mr. Bradford in a few minutes, the lawyer fancied that this message had surprised even the servant himseE "Curious," he thought; but again quite placidly he waited. When, after his interview with Margaret, Mr. Bradford crossed the hall on his way out, the old servant glanced in surprise at the dock. This visitor had been with Miss Chamberlain almost two hours. But Mr. Bradford's eyes never wandered near the clock. Seeming quite unaware how long he had stayed, he passed the threshold very slowly, his face full of a grave, new trouble. m2 lU CHAPTER XI. MUCH to the surprise of Doris, Mr. Bradford did not appear at the Dower House that eyening until it was time for him to drive into Minton to oatoh the mail. Scot Monkton had walked up with him from the Black Birches to take Willy home, and they waited only while the horses were put to for Mr. Bradford, and whHe Doris wrapped the child in a plaid of her own. " Because, if you take care of yourself, you know," she said, looking merrily down upon the little muffled figure, "your cough will soon go. , " Where?" asked the child, in his slow, wist- ful way. " To another little boy I" Doris, with puckered eyebrows, glanced up into Scot's &ce as he stood near her. THE squire's legacy. 165 *^ Perhaps it is as tired of little boys," he said, lightly, *^ as we little boys are tired of it. Sup- pose we try to drop it where no little boys are idling about." **In the woods?" questioned Willy, looking anxiously from Scot to Doris. " Would it hurt the flowers f '^ I never yet heard a blue-bell coughing, or noticed a buttercup gasping with croup, but no doubt they do catch cold, from constantly standing in a draught. Evidently, Miss Egerton, Willy has had a pleasant time in the woods to- day." " Couldn't we," pondered the child, looking up at Scot with great seriousness, ^' leave the cough in the empty house? It is so big, and there are no little boys." Doris, under pretence of tightening his plaid, bent till her face was hidden from Scot. But, while he noticed this, he only said — "So Miss Egerton took you to the empty house, did she, Willy t" "Not inside," the child answered, with a slow shake of his head. *^ She didn't know what it was like inside; she didn't, more'n me," he added, touching her shyly; " did you?" •?^^F— ^^#^^ 166 THE squire's legacy. « No." " You would not care for the trouble, Mis» Egerton, or Fm sure Colonel Egerton would take you," " I would rather — — " She stopped abruptly in her reply, and changed its tone. " I will go when Willy goes," she said, imagining that that thought dismissed the matter cheerily. "And you said you'd like to go," observed Willy, his eyes questioning her solenmly, "didn't you?" "If you really care to go. Miss Egerton^ will you come with Willy, and — with me ?" " I should like it so much." In her simple desire to win him from his con- stant work and the thought of the coming trial, she assented readily, and eyen eagerly. For a few hours his hands and thoughts would relax from their great strain ; for a few hours he would loiter in rooms and scenes which were beautiful and familiar to him. Her eyes grew bright at the thought. She had done not only what her heart dictated, but what both her father and Mr. Bradford had urged her to do. "When shall we go?" she asked, vnXh the eagerness of a child. " To-morrow ?" ^P"^^^^- THE squire's legacy. 167 In a few minutes it was arranged, and, though Miss Bradford merrily withdrew from the plan, Scot said he would urge Miss Windish to go with them. But next morning, when at the appointed time Doris stood at the gate to join them, Scot came up to her, with the child only. **Aunt Michal could not come," he said, as he oflfered Doris his hand. " Shall you postpone the walk, Miss Egerton 1" " Why ?" she asked, surprised. " Do you find you cannot spare us the time ?" " A probable discovery indeed 1" So they turned and walked on together, side by side, while the child, always near Scot, seemed lost in a happy little world of his own,i bounded only by the sunshine. Doris felt her breath quicken as they came into the shadow of the house, and suddenly a doubt Tisited her> of which she had not thought before. Had it been cruel, after all, instead of kind, to tempt Scot here, where memories would hover in crowds about the old familiar rooms ? With a vague fear of this, she looked anxi- ously into his face as she passed him in the wide entrance. So many had said it would be 168 THE squire's legagt. -well to tempt Scot to Eingswood^-^could they all have been wrong ? "Do you feel afraid, Miss Egerton," he asked, just because he understood this thought, <*in consequence of there being no osmundaover the door r Doris laughed in her great relief. *' There is a better earnest of good luck even than the osmunda," she said. " But it is given to passing through the doors, instead of pausing over them, isn't it V* " Yes, I think so," responded Doris, brightly, "It ^ill pass through the door — as we have done to-day — but it will stay here for ever." " It will pass through the door as you have done to-day," said Scot, coolly altering her phrase. "There are bright days in store for Eingswood, then." They lingered in the hall, while the woman who had opened the door to them, went into the chief rooms to let in the daylight ; and then they began their tour, chatting in a merry, unconnected way, and greatly enjoying the boundless astonishment which little Willy found it at last impossible to suppress. " It's so beautiful !" he whispered, hiding his face in Doris's dress, when they entered the THE squire's legacy. 169 picture-gallery. " Did — did father see it, pleaae t" "Willy," said Scot, lifting the child pitifully in his arms, and turning to the window, ^* look out here, dear. Those pictures are too many to see at once ; but here is the best picture of all, and your father loved it dearly, of course — all men do." As the child stood on the window-seat, trying to stay his quiet sobs, while Scot held him, Doris sat down beside him, and began to talk of the wide, beautiful view of wood and park and river, leaving the little fellow to recover himself. Then she slipped quietly away, and wandered down the gallery alone ; and Scot, though he looked after her, only held the child a little closer, and smiled kindly and warmly into the moist eyes which sought his so trustfully. He saw that Doris wished him to feel as utterly free as if she were not there ; and he understood her motive, as he understood all kind and generous impulses. And, when Doris came back soon to talk of the pictures she had seen, he discussed them just with his old ease. '^ Of course there are many portraits I have 170 THE squire's legacy. recognised, even so far/' said Doris, comfortably ensconced in her corner of the cushioned seat. ^'But, Mr. Monkton, what a curions painting that is of an old gentleman in a sort of yellow satin suit — a Court dress of the time, I suppose, — writing on a long sheet of paper, with * Last Will and Testament of Piers Monk- ton ' on the top." **Yes — a curious specimen of portraiture," laughed Scot, ''as the original was a curious specimen of squirearchy. That old ancestor of mine chose to be painted so, because he had great crotchets on the subject of wills. I believe he tried to introduce an Act of Parlia- ment to prevent property descending, even from father to son, without a will. He said every rich man should be made to feel the responsibility of apportioning his property, and that, if he would not, he deserved to lose it." '' But isn't it unnecessary in many cases ?" " He didn't think so." '' And have his descendants all agreed with himV" As soon as ever the question was asked, Doris would have given much to recall it. She re- membered Kenneth telling her that the late THE squire's legacy. 171 Squire had left no will ; and though she remem- bered, too, how he had said it could not signify,, as Mr. Monkton left an only son ; still she saw that her unthinking words had given pain. " Of course," she went on, nervously, **a will cannot be necessary where the property descends from a father to an only son ;.but per- haps he — your ancestor — thought everyone ought to leave a legacy of some kind ; and I suppose one cannot leave a legacy without a will, Mr. Monkton." What was that look in Scot's face which, though she could not comprehend it, gave her such a pain to see ? Had she made a blunder ? Could a legacy be made without a will? And could there be the memory of such a legacy to bring that sad look for a moment upon the steadfast, handsome face t Only for a moment, though, for, as she saw it, he turned her ques- tion aside with a gay remark which, though not irrelevant, changed the subject skilfully. Then the child put in his slow, quiet question. • " Wm r he said. " Father called me Will sometimes. Is there another Will — please ?" 172 THE squire's legacy. t "Though at present only a very small old gentleman/' replied Scot, looking quizzically up at the sober little figure standing on the seat between himself and Doris, " there may come a time when you will be a great man, and rich too — which may be all one with the greatness, or may be quite a separate thing — ^and then you will get somebody to write on a paper for you who is to have all your money and treasures." " The top you bought me I" " Certainly. You will say — ' I give my top to So-and-so.' " "Who's soneso?" inquired Willy, thought- fully. " The boy of the future, dear, to whom you bequeath your property in tops." ' "No, please," said the child, with his 'shy, timid touch upon Scot's arm, " I shall give it to you." "By that time, my dear little fellow," re- marked Scot, as he lifted the child to the ground, " the top will be as superannuated an article as myself. But it will be time enough to think about your will when you are rich. Now go and see the pictures." "How he loves you, Mr. Monktonl" said THE SQUIBE'S LEGACr. 173 Doris, rising when she saw that, though the boy obeyed in an instant, he longed to remain near Scot. ^^And he seems to have a great power of loving." " You judge by comparison," Scot observed, as he strolled on at her side. '^Most little fellows — like most big ones — ^have many to love, or one very near to them on whom it is natural and legitimate to lavish all the affection they possess ; but some have only just such a friend as I am to the child, or-^the child is to me. "How very beautiful this gallery is, Mr. Monkton I" said Doris, hurriedly. " It looks as long as the Larch Walk. Howthorpughly at home you must feel among the old faces I' " What's that cheerful idea. Miss Egerton, about ^ old faces glimmering through the doors V 'Old faces glistening in their frames' would be a truer reading, don't you think ?" "No," replied Doris, quietly. "You are speaking of the Jiouse apart from home,^* " And why not ? Is it home to any one of us?" " Yes," said Doris, with gentle firmness. " It must still be home to you, and will be." !. 174 THE SQUIRE S LEGACY. " And you think I really see * old faces glim- mering through the doors/ and hear ' old foot- steps treading the upper floors,' and * old voices calling me'?" • "Yes." " Very well ; I see them then, ane2 hear them," said Scot, composedly, as Doris suddenly paused, her eyes fixed upon his own portrait, '^'and you are to blame, Miss Egerton, that I fail to-day — like a coward — ^in seeing this house only as any other vacant, chilly, echoing, gigantic mass of stonework," "I am willing that it shall be my fault," returned Dona, softly, but in great eameetness; *'you came here to oblige me, though I was an utter stranger to this house and to your old life; but, Mr. Monkton, in your other life — and even this portrait would show me how little you are changed, if I could not remember it myself — ^have you thought of me so little as a friend that you should care to act indifference before me ?" " Through that * other life ' you speak of, you have' been the ^" Scot broke off, and finished the sentence very quietly in his sup- pressed emotion. ^^ No pleasanter friendship THE SQUIRE S LEGACY. 175 could a man wish than yours, Miss Egerton." " Thank you," she returned, simply. " Then you will think of me as a real friend always ?" " In what other way could I possibly think of you ?" She smiled because he had a smile upon his lips ; for the pictured &ce above, with its clear, straightforward gaze, betrayed no more token of a brave, unflinching struggle than did the living, guarded face beside her. Now and then they sat to rest upon one of the couches; and now and then Scot lifted the child to tell him — or to listen while Doris told him — the story of one of the statues or pictures ; but there came no shadow between them again, however fleeting, and, when Scot said once that the gallery had never before seemed so small, there was a meaning in the words which even he himself did not fully comprehend. Of all the rooms in Eingswood this had been — though the most beautiful — the least homelike. So fre- quently open to visitors, as it had always been, the circumstance of its being private to the household only on certain days, prevented its ever seeming entirely so. Therefore what could have given it to-day the homelike feeling ? 176 THE SQCJIRE'S LEGACY. " There's Miss Michal 1" cried Doris, as they paused before that colourless painting of the girl in white, of which Philippe Sonrdet had feigned admiration when he had visited the gallery a year before, " I remember that on the very day she re- turned ^" began Soot, and then stopped ab- ruptly — ^not because he either lost or shrank from the meipory, but interrupted by a faltering cry from Willy's lips — « Father ! Oh 1 it's father 1" The child was trembling pitifully, as he stood with his eyes fixed upon one of the portraits, and his folded hands lifted to it. "It's father 1 It is— it is, indeed I Oh! —father !" Again, as on the day when Scot had taken that father's place, and given the homeless child a home, the love and longing were too great for the frail little form, and once more came the rest of total unconsciousness within Scot's armjs. " How vividly," said Doris, half an hour after- wards, when they had left the house, and were walking slowly homewards through the park — Willy on Mr, Monkton's shoulder, quite restor- THB squire's legacy. 177 ed, and scarcely paler or more quiet than his wont — ^^ that picture must have reminded him of his father! Whose portrait was it, Mr. Monktoni" " That of my father's brother. He was a Scot Monkton too. Miss Egerton, how tenderly and how cleverly you brought my little fellow back to life I I wish the thanks of either of us were worth having." ^' It is plain to me, then, that my thanks are worthless," said Doris, laughing ; " else I would thank you for one of the pleasantest mornings I have spent for long." They stood to part at the gate of the Dower House — for Scot would not be persuaded to stay — and he took the child from his shoulders to ! receive Doris's kiss, watching how long she made it, and how gentle, while the boy laid his cheek to hers with a shy caress. Then Scot and Willy walked on together through the park — ^where the willow-buds unfolded, soft and green in their Spring childhood ; and where on the knotted branches of the oaks some withered leaves still ! hxmg and hid their glorious Summer promise. " Ah ! Aunt Michal, there you are ; and here | are we." VOL. in. N 178 THE squire's legacy. It was just the pleasant greeting to which Miss Michal was accustomedy but, when it reach- ed her from the garden gate, to which her back was turned, she sprang up with a faint shriek. " You startled me so," she said, reproachfully, as Scot came up to her. ^^ Everything startles me now; I never know what may not have happened. No, give me back the rake, Scot ; I want to smooth this soil a little. Certainly Tve no flowers to put in when it's ready — of course not — ^but I would rather get it ready all the same, Scot, and there's no room in the house for me and all those strangers." " Who are they now ?'* " They I " echoed Miss Michal, with melan- choly contempt. "I didn't say *they.' Isn't one sujQicient t" ^' It depends ; come in and let us see. Aunt Michal." But, in her resolute depression, Miss Michal refused to run the risk of this visitor being what she termed " another disguise." So Scot enter- ed the house alone, and courteously returned the salutation of the young man who waited for him — a slight, gentlemanly young fellow, whose manners were so quiet, and even inert, THE squire's legacy. 179 that Scot looked at him in scarcely-concealed surprise, when he had read the letter he bore from Mr. Bradford. But, as Scot looked, the young man met his eyes, and smiled. ^^ Mr. Bradford speaks kindly, in his letter, of my ability for this trust, Mr. Monkton, and you doubt it. I see those two facts clearly." "I did not doubt," said Scot, amused. "I only wondered, because he writes that you are well up in everything here— in aU the news, and gossip, and suspicion of the neighbourhood ; and you looked just then so very unlike it." " Thank you, sir," returned the young man, with a bow. " 1 am a pretty competent groom, but unfortunately don't possess an idea beyond ponies — Lewis Baine, at your service." ^' As I am inclined to believe all that my old friend says of you in this letter," responded Scot, in his warm, pleasant way, " I place my- self at your service too." "No need, sir," Baine said, quickly, for he saw that Mr. Monkton expected a category of questions. " I must go on to the Dower House with Miss Egerton's pony. Strange to say, he lost a shoe on the journey, so I shall take him n2 180 THE squire's legacy. round to the forge this evening. Which is the busiest about here, sir?" *^The busiest?" repeated Scot; and then in a moment the man's meaning flashed upon him^ " The favourite forge," he said, composedly, " is in the centre of the village." Eaine had not intended to throw out any farther hints as to where the people congre- gated, but even if he had, he would have changed the intention. It was not from Mr.. Monkton he would seek this kind of informa- tion. Though not appearing at all observant^ he was still studying Scot's face, when, after a casual glance from the window, he asked if that was the little boy who was to learn to ride. "Yes ; I daresay Mr. Bradford has told you all about him," said Scot, as he went to the window, and Willy ran in at his call ; " but he has been so moved to-day by a chance likeness, that presently I must get Mr. Bradford to enlist your help in trying to trace his parentage. However difficult, as long as there is a possi- bihty ^" Willy had entered now, and, on his way across the room to Scot, had stopped opposite THE squire's legacy. 181 Baine, gazing at him in grave and troubled perplexity, " I — I know yoTi," said the child, dosing his eyes in a curions and plaintive effort to recall something. ^^ You used to speak to me, and be kind ; and I heard you sing. I stood outside the door, and you took me in, and I got warm. That was you, wasn't it I" he asked, with a touching earnestness. " Gh:und achievements for anyone possessing a spark of humanity," Baine answered, smiling as he bent to look into the child's face ; '^ but, upon their merits, will you shake hands, old friend ? I will be a better friend now, for I will teach you to ride." "No, thenk you," declined the child, in his solemn, old-feshioned politeness, as he drew back to Scot's side. " I don't want to, thenk you." *' And, when you quite know how to manage a pony," continued Scot, appearing not to notice his courteous dissent, ''you shall ride with me. I am so glad that Mr. Baine will teach you. Now run back into the garden. Stay — I will put you through the window here." He had felt it such a stern duty to discourage 182 THE squire's legacy. the child from clinging to him, and to induce him to attach himself to the new groom, that he was glad of this opportunity to put his kind arms about the trembling little figure, even for that moment. '^ He is a delicate little fellow still, just as he always was," said Baine, when Mr. Monkton turned to him for information ; " and, more than that, he has still the very grave and elderly manners which always amused me, though there is something touching in them too. Poor child ! I believe his life has been one long per- plexity to him." " Did you know his father?" asked Scot, re- calling vividly that night when he took Willy home. "No, I never saw his father. The fact is, Mr. Monkton, I know very little about the child himself. His mother — ^who was a music- hall smger, of very second-rate power— once lodged in a room over the one I occupy, and, when she first came, she brought that child with her. He led a lonely life there for a week or two, for his mother was always out, or had a number of noisy people with her at home ; and it was during those weeks that little Willy THE squire's legacy. 183 would creep to my door to hear me sing, or to win a few words quietly to himself, as I believe he never won them from his mother. I had very seldom time — and, to own the truth, I had very seldom inclination — to notice him; but I should have tried, if I had guessed how he would remember such a trifle of kindness, especially as he was always so grateful for a kind word that I was ashamed of his thanks." " Did you hear nothing of his father?" "I heard his wife's account," Raine an^ swered with a slight laugh of contempt. ^^ If you care for that, sir, I may tell you he was one with whom nothing ever prospered, and to whom it was very unfortunate for a wife to be tied. If I gave my own opinion, I should say it was quite enough to blight any man's life to be bound to such a wife — or, rather, I should say, to possess no better a wife and mother for his boy. As for that woman feeling bound to him, why, she never did !" " And the father fetched his child away ?" ^'Tes; and she continued the same kind of life until she passed from my knowledge." " Do you mind telling me how ?'.' " In the simplest way in the world, Mr. Monk- 184 THE squire's legaoy. ton, and the most natural for such a woman. One* day, when she was as deeply in debt as she dared to go, she forgot to return to her lodgings, or to the neighbourhood of trades- men who had trusted her. They told me she must have carried off all she valued by instal- ments, for the box she left behind — as a blind — contained nothing but worn-out stage-dresses and old song-books, except a sealed packet addressed to her husband. Probably she fan- cied the mistress of the house would do what she really did — send to this address, to offer the parcel in exchauge for the payment of the wife's debt. But the man could not be found, and the packet remains unopened still — so I presume. If you wish to identify the child, sir, of course these papers may be valuable." "We will try at once," said Scot, in his prompt, cool way. " This is what I propose — ^" Upon what he proposed Mr. Baine could sug- gest no improvement, and the consequence of their decision was the detective's return to London, the examination by himself and Mr. Bradford of the contents of that parcel detained at the lodging-house, and his return next even- ing with a letter from Mr. Bradford to Scot, THE squibe'b legacy. 185 which he left at the Black Birches only ia passing. When Scot began to break Mr. Bradford's secJ, his fingers shook a little, and he stopped in surprise, and laughed to see it ; while Miss Michal — ^who sat opposite in a state of petulant suspense — remarked that, as his hand had never trembled all through his own troubles, she failed to see any legitimate cause why it should shake over that child's — ^for no former experi* ence had taught Miss Michal that a moment of sudden hope or keen suspense will shake a firm- ness which sorrow cannot stir. ^ Scot, my dear, what does it say ? It can't be anything so — so very important." The little lady had borne her silence for four long minutes, and the mild protest of course was called for. Scot raised his face (a thoughtful face, but was it not ever thoughtful now ?) and its glad- ness was beyond words. ^'This is what Bradford says. Aunt Michal. It is laconic, and like him. ^ I went to Baine's lodgings with him, procured the parcel he men- tioned to you, and found out all you wished to know. If you are content, all the better. I am 186 THE squire's legacy. not. The child is, beyond doubt, the son of Sophie Sonrdet's son, and therefore the grand- son of your uncle Scot Monkton. If we had not proved the marriage in San Bemo, I would never have touched these papers. Now they are valuable proofs, and I hold them at your will- There are about a dozen letters from Sophie Sourdet to her husband, addressed to Robert Scot, a few leaves of the old diary we have in Philippe Sourdet's case, and a duplicate photograph. They are evidently the tokens left at the Foundliug by the woman calling herself Sophie Scot. In fact, what I hold es- tablishes the child's claim to his name — ^you will not get T. & C. Bradford to acknowledge, , on paper, his claim to more. I shall run down soon, and in the meantime Baine, I am sure, will make good use of every moment." " Then — then," faltered Miss Michal, through profuse tears, " this child — is — ^is — a Monkton !" "Yes, poor little fellow; and right can be done at last." "And you — ^you, Scot," gasped Miss Michal, every word growing more feeble, " will give up the Kingswood property to — to such a baby ?" " So gladly, Aunf Michal." THE squire's legacy. 187 " Gladly 1 You must be mad. I'm — Tm going up to the child no^," she added, presently^ all in the same tone, '* instead of you, Scot. I daresay he'll be asleep and all right, and it will be only a wasted journey for either of us ; but you are tired ; and — oh! Scot, that you should give up to him /" And Miss Michal ended with a renewed burst of tears. " Do you notice ?" asked Scot, rousing him- self from his long thought, ^* how strangely the thing has worked, Aunt Michal ? After search- ing far and wide for the heir of Kingswood, he is found here upon our own hearth." "That's always the way," rejoined Miss Michal, briskly, through her tears. ^^As soon as ever I've hunted for the keys in every room up to the attic, there they are at the bottom of my pocket. Scot " (Miss Michal had turned back from the door, and her eyes, in their astonished roundness, were growing dry without her knowledge), "I'm relieved about one thing. It always did hurt me so to feel that that little bed should have been bought for a child that didn't belong to us — such a real bargain as it was I And, Scot, to think that it was just your kindness and compassion for — 188 THE squire's legacy, for a desolate child — that solved the great difficulty after all. I feel, Scot ^ ^^ So glad about the bed, Aunt Michal ? So do I. It is the cheapest bed I ever saw." 189 CHAPTER XIL IT was not long before the new groom at the Dower House had made friends, not only of his fellow-servants, but of the servants of the neighbouring families; and not only of the villagers, but of many of the Minton people too. With a marvellous rapidity he had in- stalled himself in the unenviable position of general favourite. There was a winning frank- ness in his easy ways which was irresistible to ableness in his manners which made him wel- come to the quiet gossips ; a convivial hmJiomie which made his presence a boon in the tavern bar, or the village pubKc-house ; and a rollicking, muscular argumentativeness which caused him to be thoroughly appreciated in the noisy parliament round the forge. And, beyond this, he made such a masterly use of flattery, and 190 THE squire's legacy. had BO much suavity in his gallant, half foreign ways, that the village girls made purposeless errands that they might fall in his way, and the maid-servants at the Dower House treasured every one of his merry compliments. Once or twice the remark was hazarded that Miss Egerton's new groom seemed to have rather an unusual amount of leisure on his hands, but there were always voices ready to excuse this fact. *^ Lewis couldn't make his post at the Dower House harder than it was, and, if Lloyd wotdd persist in keeping his own work in his own hands, why, it wasn't Lewis's fault. He was so quick too — not one to make an hour's work last a day, as some were." Then they would lead him off in triumph to the " Monkton Arms," or the " White Horse," and wait for his opinion on national questions ; while they knew it was only his French polite- ness which allowed him to undergo so patient- ly uninteresting items of local gossip, clamorous arguments on the approaching trial, or — worse than all — ^the vindictive prognostications of Oliver Wakeley as to its result. But Mr. Lewis betrayed no weariness even THE squire's legacy. 191 on these topics ; and, while his admiring com- panions were sure that Wakeley's surly invective or maudlin patronage was most distasteful to him, Wakeley himself felt that he and the new groom were kindred spirits, and that it was real sympathy with his sentiments which prompted Mr. Lewis to treat him occasionally to his favourite beverage. Ever after that first visit of his to Anna Wakeley — when she had been terrified by the strange face, as he walked up the garden, leading the pony with Willy on it — he had been a welcome visitor to the cottage. On that first day he had come only to return the lantern she had lent Doris (and had oven been so absent-minded as to carry it away again with him) ; but still he had had such a long, quiet, pleasant talk with the solitary woman, that Anna, in all her shrinking nervousness, had grown to look forward to that little daily talk with Lewis when he stopped the pony at the cottage on the slope. So, equally into every group he carried some indefinable charm which made him ever wel- come. No one quite understood what it was — no one afterwards remembered what it could 192 THE squire's legacy. have been. True, he was brisk and cheerful, but then, he had had rather an idle way about him too, they remembered when they came to think of it. He was a good listener (a rery good listener) but then he had often kept them talking to him when he might have given them a song, which was disobliging they considered— when they came to think of it. He was a witty talker (witty and versatile enough) but then they remembered that he had more than once turned off a good story into some stupid bet with Wakeley or his associates — when they came to think of it. He had the very plasant-^ est air of being confidential, but then they could remember no spicy item of scandal which he had ever given them — when they came to think of it. But then they never did '* come to think of it " until after that trial was over, and their eyes had all been opened to the fact that he had been amongst them in disguise. And in the meantime he was at home and popular everywhere; and perhaps the most wonderful proof of his influence was the fact that the other mennservants were not jealous of him. Only once had Lloyd been tempted to complain to his mistress that something '^ was THE SQUIBB'S IiEGAOY. 193 Lewis's fault," and even then he would gladly, if he could, have recalled the words as soon as they were uttered, because ^^ Lewis was such a good-^hearted fellow, and never would have grumbled at him." *'I will speak to Lewis," Doris had said, feigning annoyance with him. Of course, if he is neglectfiil, Colonel Egerton will dismiss him — next month." And Colonel Egerton, who had heard, laugh- ed heartily over the speech. "Not bad," he said, overtaking, her as she walked away in her dignity; "not bad, con- sidering Baine's work will be over— next month. I never saw such a fellow as he is," he added, laughing ; " I have actually just seen him go to Comely Place. He has managed to make a Mend even of that old major-domo of Chamberlain's, by far the. most unapproachable fellow in the county ; a man with a secret, I firmly believe, yet Baine bas found some vulnerable point. Even at Osborne House^— but I declare I get utterly lost in admiration when I try to grasp all his friendships. He is thoroughly at home, even in Stanley Monkton's hotel at Minton. If VOL. m. o 194 THE squire's legacy. Stanley did but know to whose surveillance he is subject 1" This surveillance of Baine's, hidden so well under his ready sympathy and gay insouciance^ never slackened until he donned his groom's livery for the last time, and returned to London on the evening of the Saturday on which the Minton assizes opened. Scot Monkton's trial was fixed for hearing on Monday morning at ten o'clock, and up to the afternoon of Saturday Mr. Bradford had not arrived. Kenneth was not anxious, for his father had sent word by him that no one need ^^ expect him till they saw him," but Doris longed for her old friend, whose unlimited and immovable confidence in the law would have done so much to lighten the weight of doubt and anxiety which— however deep her trust in its final issue — necessarily hung over the approaching trial. But Doris had an added source of anxiety, from which none of Mr. Bradford's coolness and confidence could have relieved her, for she knew that he must share it too, and bear it through all the mental labour of his profession. This was the pain of seeing how Kenneth was worn by his intense, sup- pressed excitement. The 17th of April was THE squire's legacy. 1 95 the date fixed for the first representation of his drama ; and, though he seemed to have set all thought of it aside just now, in his deep sym- pathy with Scot Monkton, still Doris could detect how the strong wave of constant thought was undennimng health and youth. " Kenneth, you don't forget that, even if your drama fails — which it cannot — the fact will not change our promise to each other." It was Sunday afternoon, and they were walking through the park to church. Kenneth — revelling in the calm and beauty of the scene — had been speaking of what such peace and quiet would be to those whose brains had grown dazed and weary over their work in the ceaseless din of a London street. " If I succeed," he had said, with solemn earnestness, ^' I shall try to win one of them now and then to such a rest as this. But if I fail " And then Doris had brightly asked him that question, " You don't forget that, even if your drama feils — which it cannot — ^the fact will not change our promise to each other!" " Are you quite sure, my darling," Kenneth asked, most quietly, "that you think I shall succeed?" 02 196 THE squire's legacy. " I never doubted it for one moment, Ken,"" she said, a little surprised. ^^ I never have, and — I cannot," " Oh, my love, say it to me now, while it will sound so sweet 1 You are mj promised wife?" " I have been bo, Kenneth, ever since I spent my last holiday at Richmond." " When we read Antigone aloud together." " Yes." " And you told Mr. Monkton about^ it. You saw him that day for the first time. How well I remember it all ! Sometimes, Doris, I fancy I remember every word your ever said to me." " Not a bad fancy, Kenneth, considering you are only a poet. There's the bell I Fm glad we are here before anyone else." " I ani glad too," ssad Kenneth, as they turn- ed aside. "I hardly knew how I loved thia little churchyard, Doris, until one day I dream- ed — I suppose I had fallen asleep over my writ- ing, for it was a real dream — that I was rest- ing here upon the grass, lying with my hand in yours, dear, and looking up beyond the elms into the wide, calm blue above. I can recall so vividly what a rest it felt 1 Doris, I'm sure that THE squire's legacy. 197 only those whofce brains have grown weary in the city can fully understand what such a rest would be. I have thought — ever since that dream I have thought — that I should like my own grave here." *'And mine, then, of course/' supplemented Doris, tenderly* *' But, after all, Kenneth, it is only new that we mind, is it? It will be all one to us then. We shall have found a peace which could not be disturbed by the sounds which always weary you. It is now that you should rest. Dear Ken, I wish I could per- suade you how much better is such peace •as ypu feel to-day, than the constant struggle — But," «he added, brightly, when she saw his face sad- den, " you know best. Ken. It is your choice, and you are happier so." "My choice?" he echoed, dreamily. **I hardly know, Doris. Sometimes I feel that I have been led by something stronger ^ than choice.'' "Power to succeed you mean," she smiled. " Now shall we go into church ?" This was the first time during his visit that Kenneth had referred to his own prospects, for he had come determined to interest Doris on 198 THE squire's legacy. pleasant general subjects, witTiout touching either on Mr. Monkton's approaching trial, or his own coming test. So, in the quiet pause be* fore the service, he blamed himself for his for- getfulness, and again formed his resolutions, forgetting how impossible it was to deny him- self the sympathy which was so precious to him^ and that bright response to the love which wa» more deep and steadfast even than the love he gave his art. Miss Windish and little Willy sat with them in the great Kingswood pew, but the service went on to its close, and Scot Monktoki did not appear. *^I thought he would be here/' sighed Miss Michal, when they stood together at the church- yard gate. The congregation had all dispersed — even Mr. Berries, after his chat with them, had pass- ed on to the Vicarage — ^but still they seemed in no haste to separate. Presently the child^ looking wistfully to the woods, gave a start, and, when Miss Michal discovered that it was< Scdt he saw, she released his hand, and told him he might run. Needing no other word, he raced towards Scot, and Miss Michal took up the skirt of her dress. THE squire's legacy. 199 **Now that Scot is coming," she said, "we XDay as well go. He has been away since break- fast ; and I didn't know where he might have gone, especially as he wouldn't take even little Willy. But we'll go now. This evening will be so dismal that I wanted to stay out as long as possible." Doris smiled. She knew how cleverly her father had laid his plans to circumvent Miss Michal and Scot spending their evening alone,, and so she and Kenneth— just as if they did it unthinkingly — sauntered on with the little lady towards the Black Birches — ^very slowly, that Scot might soon overtake them, fie came up to them with no weariness or loitering in his firm, light step ; and his words were prompt and pleasant as of old. He spoke to Doris of the beauty of the day, while even she could never guess what he had suffered through its hours ; and he talked kindly to Kenneth of his approaching "first night," while that terrible trial awaited himself upon the morrow. " You must be very anxious, Bradford, now it is so near," he said. " Can you find rest from the one thought?" "I have had a great rest to-day," replied 200 THB SQUms'S LEGAOT. Kennethi and he did not notice how thought- fally Soot's eyes rested upon Doris Egerton's face ; as if, CTeti far off, he could understand a little of such rest* « Where r *^ In church; The calm there always does me good." '^ Tes, you are right. It stills a man's pulse, and carries his gaze a little further than — the morrow." " Then why wouldn't you go to-day, Scot, ?" inquired Miss Miohal, plaintirely. "I did." *'Tou did! It was to a distant church, then!" •' No ; I longed toniay to hear the great Cathedral service*" '< I think I guess," said Doris, smiling as she met his eyes. " I think you do," he answered, gently. ** And Bradford is right, though he was not speaking of *' That Cathedral, boundless as our wonder, Whose quenchless lamps the sun and moon supply * —was he f THE SQUIRIC'S LEGACY. 201 '*Toa didn't hdar the organ to«-day," said Doris, utterly oomprehendiDg him. « Didn't I ? Which is the organ ?" " Don't you remember t *Its choir the winds amd -wares, its orgAn thuidery Its dome the 4y.* " said Doris, quoting softly the last two lines of the verse ; for she never guessed that he had asked the question merely to hear her repeat the words which had been in his own heart. '^ Then after all, Scot," fretted Miss Michal, << you've been out of doors all these hours — walking?" " Walking chiefly — ^yes, Aunt Michal. Brad- ford, do you ever -find that walking helps you to think? Ah, there are Colonel Egerton and Miss Bradford ! Bun, Willy, and open the gate.' The kind old officer, aided by Doris and Miss Joan, won his way so skilfully that the friends spent that Sunday evening all together at the Dower House ; and when at last they separated even Miss Michal had no lugubrious expression on her &ce. "Don't you think, Scot," she inquired briskly, as, on their homeward way, she clung to his 202 THE squire's legacy. arm in the darkness of the March night, *^ that it's a pity they are all so loving and united there!" " Ye powers, Aunt Michal 1 Why ?" • " Don't you see why ? Is it to be expected that they won't have to separate, like other human families ? And think how hard it will be for them," " Oh, I see ; but it will scarcely be a sepa- ration," said Scot, quietly. "When Bradford marries " "I wasn't thinking of that," retorted Miss Michal, promptly ; *' I meant if death separated them." " Why think of such a thing?" "I don't know. Scot," she added, after a pause, " I think Kenneth Bradford looks very ill, and I think it mad of him to worry and plod just for such an unnecessary thing as a play. You ought to tell him so, Scot, when you next have a quiet talk with him." « If I ever do." "Q-ood gracious, what's to prevent it?" in- quired Miss Michal, in a wonderfully lively tone, as she read the young man's meaning; and then, with a prompt dismissal of all thought THE squire's legacy. 203 of Kenneth, as well as of that chance which Scot had meant, on which the morrow's trial bore, she executed a nimble change of ideas. *' Scot, Miss Bradford's black silk was new this year." '* "4'ou don't say so 1" ** I do indeed ; though mine — though mine," repeated Miss Michal, in a burst of triumph, '^is in its fourth. Well, Scot," she meditated, pen- sively, as she clasped her little limp fingers more closely about his arm, ^' it shows the value of good folding. Things should always be smoothed well over. Buffling takes the gloss oflf everything." 204 CHAPTER XIII. IN a crowded gallery of the crowded court, Doris EgertoH sat beside her aunt. Colonel Egerton and Kenneth had left them there, before the court began to fill, and ever since then Doris had sat motionless, leaning on the rail in front of her, her face half hidden bj her hands ; while now and then the crowded build- ing seemed to sway around her, and she could only steady it again by a strong mental strain, and by that fierce grip upon the bar in front. She had wished to stay at home to-day ; but, when Mr. Bradford said he would rather she went, she never hesitated — even feeling relieved that the choice was taken from her. But anxiety and sleeplessness were beginning to tell sadly upon the girl ; and, though she shook her head in momentary cheerfiilness, when her aunt questioned her by an anxione gaze, she knew THE SQUma'S LEGAOT. 205 tbat her cheeks were very white and cold, and that her eyes wandered aimlessly among the crowd, because she had not power to concen- trate them. So it was that she tried to hide heV face from Miss Joan's loving eyes, as she sat so still in her corner of the j^lery, looking over the rail into the hall below, while the words that were said had only a dim meaning for her. Now and then she caught herself vaguely repeating one word, which she knew must have reached her ear, though she did not know from whom or how ; and now and then she found herself listening eagerly for one word or name, letting all else go by, perhaps, in her zealous search for this. It was the wakeful night .which bad made her feel so dazed and bewildered to-day — so she said to herself again and again, and so she said at last to her aunt, when Miss Joan had been betrayed into a little not unnatural alarm. Never once did she seem to look at Scot Monk- ton, yet, among the countless faces — so many of which were familiar to her — ^it was only his she saw. As, among the crowd, first one and then another rose to speak, she listened only for Scot's name, searching for it in vain, tUough 206 THE squire's legacy. she knew it was of Urn they spoke, in those weary speeches which, while meaningless in her ears, bore a heavy meaning to her heart. And so the hours went on, until there was a stir in the crowd, quite different from those slight movements she had noticed at intervals all day; and, when she looked round, at Kenneth's touch, the gallery was almost empty. **The Coui*t has dispersed for luncheon. Come, dear, I think you are in a dream. Colonel Egerton has taken Aunt Joan." " Yes, I think I am in a dream," Doris said, drawing her fingers across her eyes. *' It is all so misty ; I see only the white heads. Tell me about it, Kenneth." " Will you not come ?" '' No." " Then wait one moment." When he returned to her, he brought a glass of wine, and stood beside her, watching her with anxious solicitude. So she drank the wine at his bidding, and smiled her thanks, the smile dying in one moment, into a glance of entreaty. " Tell me, Kenneth, what they have said. I — it has all got mixed for me, and — and I am sleepiy I suppose. Will you tell mef I can always understand you." THE squire's legacy. 207 ^^You should wait until our side speaks," said Kenneth, in a voice of preternatural confidence. " But I want to know all," she observed, re- suming her old position against the rail, while Kenneth sat beside her in the almost deserted gallery, nervous and troubled to see her so be- wildered, but quiet and gentle through all. " What did they say, Kenneth !" ^' All they could, dear, of course, against Mr. Monkton." ^' But I never heard his name I" " Of course not," the young man returned, with a swift glance of anxiety into her face. "But they raked up everything they could against him ; we knew they would do that. It is but fair for them to make the most of their opportunity— while it lasts." " What a number of them there were 1" " Yes, poor things," said Kenneth, with an easy indifference as to their power and numbers, which did its work in re-assuring Doris. « What did they say ?" " I hope you don't expect me to repeat such countless falsehoods, dear. 1 could scarcely tell you even the drift of them. The witnesses had 208 THE squire's legacy. what they thought excellent proofs of Scot Monkton'e hatred of Sourdet." « Yes— I thought so." " And," continued Kenneth, tardily, " of vari- ous unpleasant and quarrelsome meetings which had taken place between them." * " But you know, Ken ^" ** Oh, 1 know, of course," he interposed ; " but they fancy they are right — some of them. They don't know where the lie begins, because exaggeration is such a gradual ascent to it. As surely as procrastination is the thief of time, exaggeration is the thief of truth. Eh, Doris ?" " Yes ?" she questioned, without noticing bis smile. ** Go on. Ken." *^ Then they made an immense mountain oat of the molehill of Mr. Monkton's having those papers, and their value to him." " But don't they know how easily he could have bought them long ago, if he had wished?" " I fancy they will know it when our turn comes, dear," said Kenneth, with a sniile which seemed as earnest as his words. ^ In the mean- time they use what strength they have-, and try to believe it isn't utter weakness. They build a great deal on the fact of Mr. Monkton's having THE squire's legacy. 209 been away from home when the fire broke out, and returning afterwards with no surprise at all." " As if " " As if they wouldn't say all this while they can," put in Kenneth, with a cheerful nod, in her dreamy pause. "Then came your coach* man's testimony. He had seen Mr. Monkton riding rapidly from the Green Pits, before the fire was visible across the country, and yet' after the stack must have been ignited. That had great weight. It seemed so unnatural, his riding from home so rapidly just then, and so daring of him to cross the foot-bridge on horse- back." " If he would only explain, I know it would all be clear." " If you could see my father s cool face down there," said Kenneth, gently interrupting her, "you wouldn't doubt about everything being clear in time. It was a pity Colonel Egerton had to corroborate Evans's testimony, wasn't it? We had been afraid they would subpoena even you. It was bad enoagh to bring Liath to swear to his master's absence that night. VOL. m. p N 210 ' THU SQUIKB'S legacy. By the way, you heard, of courBe, of Miss Michair "No:" . ^^ She had a subpoena eerved ; but last night she locked herself into her own room, and she won't «tir» Father gave her, through the doors a stiartling idea of the punishment the law has in store for her, but it never moved her.. Even when he told her that her absence would da barm ta our side, she was deaf to every word, and the door is still fetst. Poor Uttle Miss Michal I 1 can fancy b» helpless panic in there. Did you notice how ably they used against us the fact of her absence t'* "Ably?" "Yes — ably, dear. Give them theior due. Didn't you notice, too, how cleverly the counsel employed the fact of Mr. Monkton's knocking down the constable, as presumptive evidenoe of guilt ? How could one help admiring his skill, though it was employed on the wrong side T" "Go on, Kenneth " "Those wretched letters and photographs were dragged through infinite changes, aiid our ears: were dinned with the suspicious circumstance of their being found, aftey the fire. THE squire's legacy. 211 safe in the possession of the one "who knew their price to be ten thousand ponnds. And then Wakelej said Monsieur Sourdet had aI-> ways expressed himself afraid of personal vio- lence from ScotMonkton. Eich idea, isn't it? Stanley Monkton has spared no pains and expense in his evidence, and Wakeley has been visited by no scruples — and I give them credit." «Ohl Kenneth." " Decidedly I do," insisted Kenneth, glad to see how his words roused her from her dreamy bewilderment. ** I think the idea of Scot Monk- ton's insanity was introduced most adroitly. I expect Stanley builds on a future use of that. Clever fellow, isn't he f " **1 dislike him so I" "Do you?" asked Kenneth, in apparent surprise. "Remember his provocation. The estate he covets is shut up — useless to anyone, — and is to be put now into the hands of ^ child who would be just as happy with only a shilling a week." " Hush 1 — please, Kenneth." " I suppose I must," he said, smiling now — for the dazed look had left her eyes, and a little p2 212 THE squire's legacy. colour burned in her cheeks — " for I must go» Here comes Aunt Joan. When I see you next, my darling — at least, when I join you again, for I can see ybu from my seat,— this will be over." The comrtwas rapidly refilling when Kenneth left her, and, after a few words to Miss Joan, (and to her father, before be went back) Doris leaned forward again, in her old attitude, and with her old stillness. But both words and faces were less misty to her now. Clearer and clearer they grew as the afternoon wore on ', and, though she still shrank with keenest pain from looking into Scot Monkton's face, she could understand how differently he was spoken of now. A ringing, questioning voice filled the hall, and her heart beat eagerly as she anticipated the answers to questions which were asked. If Scot Monkton had wished to occupy Eings-^ wood, why had he left it? The act was a voluntary one. If he had felt his tenure in- secure as long as these papers were in Monsieur Sourdet's possession, why had he not bought them while the price demanded was a trifle to him ? Would he not naturally prefer to forfeit THE squire's legacy. 213 ten thousand pounds, rather than a property worth thirty thousand a year? His solicitor would have purchased the papers on his own responsibility, but that h^, too, knew them to be utterly worthless to trace the heir of Kings- wood, for whom everything had been resigned. The jury had noticed how promptly and volun- tarily these papers had been produced upon the inquest ; was not that in itself evidence how little anxiety had ever been bestowed upon' them? So the words made themselves plain to Doris, her heart grasping only those that were simple, and putting in the familiar names as she passed with a shudder by that one word ** prisoner '* which was used so often. Mr. Monkton's ser- vant had found the letters by chance, and the last thing to have been expected was their dis- covery after such a fire; it being unusual to carry letters, however valuable, in a fireproof box. Mr. Monkton's absence from home on the night of the fire would presently be accounted for ; and his coolness or indifference in the pre* sence of witnesses was no proof that he had with coolness or indifference witnessed the first outbreak of the flames. 214 THE squire's legacy. There was the calling of a name which Dori» did not recognise, and a sound of laughter quickly suppressed; and then she saw Liatb again* in the witness-box, his head so bent that he looked even more diminutive than he was. Through the countless questions, atxd the old man'B sometimes TinintelUgible language, Doris grasped all he had to tell ; and the fadB stood out clearly before her, as from that minute were all the facts, however clothed, to stand until the day was over— the simple facts, which the minute and earnest questioning could not make more clear. Liath's master had been absent from home on the night of Januaiy the twentieth, when the fire occurred. He had returned about one o'clock in the night, and Liath had met him, and told him the child had wandered to seek him ; so he had gone back again towards Come- ly Place, still on horseback. In less than an hour he had returned on foot, carrying the child. The fire was raging then, but his mas- ter had not seemed surprised. He had carried the little boy into the bouse, and then hastened to the Green Pits, where he had never from that moment paused in his work, until late next THE Si^JIBE'S LEGAOY. 215 morning. Liath had picked up the little iron box himself, on the night of the twentieth, and given it to his master next morning. Mr, Monkton had not seemed particularly surprised or pleased ; he only read the letters and re- placed them« ** Lewis Baine." Doris could scarcely recognise the young man who had for two weeks been her groom ; but his frank, direct speech, so thoroughly Eng- lish, and his easy insoueiancei so thoroughly French, gave her for the time a pleasant feeling of confidence which was new to her to-day. And, even though he began so professionally^ she had no difficulty in laying his facts before herself as clearly as the others, robbed of their technicalities and many repetitions. He had had a lantern given him to return to Oliver Wakeley, which had been used by Wake^ ley on the night of the twentieth of January, and ^never since ; and he had taken from this lantern a paper, which had been folded and pushed into the socket to steady the candle* That produced was the paper. It contained a BtaDza of poetry, in a gentleman's writing. The lantern had been handed to him by James 216 THE squire's leqagy. Fowles, butler to Colonel Egerton, to whom it had been lent. " James Fowles." The butler had little to tell, Doris thought* Anna Wakelej had lent the lantern for him to light Miss Egerton home, and he had extin- guished the candle just before its flame reached the paper. After that, it had never been touched until he had sent it home by the last witness. ** Doris Egerton." Doris started back, breathing quickly; but her father had made his way to her, and^ was waiting. " Come^ dear, you have only to corroborate Fowles.'' And then qjiietly — so very quietly that only a few in the crowd could guess the girl was moved at all — ^Doris stood and took the oath, and said the few words which were all they sought from her. She had declined the lantern, but her servant had taken it fronx Anna Wakeley's hand, light- ed, and had blown it out about ten minutes afterwards. She had noticed how clumsily the paper was pushed into the socket. Certainly she believed that produced to be the paper. THE squire's legacy. • 217 " Oh, Aunt Joan," she whispered, when she had regained her place at the corner of the gallery, ^' I am glad I did not know that was to come 1" ** We would not tell you, dear. Mr. Bradford thought it best, though it was nothing at all.>^ This," added Miss Joan, wondering, as she looked down into the hall, ^^ is Mr. Chamberlain's old servant-man. Why " " Hush, auntie, please !" The girl's face was full of intense thought, as she once more watched and listened, and gather- ed steadily the meaning of those words which went to and fro so slowly and carefully. The old man remembered well the night of January the twentieth. He had taken a note from his mistress to Mr. Monkton. He went on horseback, but left the pony with Mr. Monkton, who came out to him from the house. Mr. Monkton mounted, and rode through the Green Pits, bidding him follow, and lock the gates be- hind him, to save time. He had stood at the gate some time after the horse's step had passed out of hearing, and as he stood there — simply wondering which way Mr. Monkton would take — a light had flashed suddenly upon him. It 218 THE SQIHRE'S LEGAOT. was turned off in a moment, and there had been no sound even of a footstep— the light of a dark lantern, oertainlj. He had then returned to Comely Place on foot, and wandered about the grounds, seeking his master, until about vhalf-past one o^clock, when Mr. Monkton re- turned, walking with his master, and leading the ponj. The two gentlemen had parted at the gate, Mr. Chamberlain walking on to the house, Mr. Monkton mounting again, and riding towards home, intending to stable the pony at the Black Bircbies for the night. In about half an hour Mr. Monkton had returned to Comely Place at a gallop, having missed the child. He found the child with Miss Chamberlain, and took him, leaving the pony this time, and returning on foot. " It was daylight next day before they had heard, at Comely Place, of the fire at the Green Pits. *' Margaret Chamberlain." Watching Margaret in surprise, Doris could never know how to Scot Monkton her appear- ance was a still greater matter of astonishment, nor how Mr. Bradford, when he saw this, re- joiced that he had not asked permission, but had acted only as he felt right. A little of the THE squire's legacy. 219 old anger flashed in Doris's eyes as she looked down into the grave, saddened face, but before Margaret's words were all said, a passion of shame and remorse filled her eyes with sharp and stinging tears. She had written a note to Scot Monkton — so the words ran to Doris^ as still she set aside persistently that one word " Prisoner " — on the night of the twentieth of January. The note was to entreat him to seek her brother, who had wandered out into the darkness, excited and discomposed by the tempestuous wind ; he was always excited by storm or wind, and would always wander at such times. He had returned about half-past one in the night, and said Mr. Monkton had left him at the gate. Half an hour afterwards Mr. Monkton had en- tered the house anxiously, to inquire for the child, who had sought him there at least two hours before, and whom she had kept, that he might return with Mr. Monkton, whom she had expected to see with her brother. Mr. Monkton had left the house on foot with the child, and it had been dawn next morning before she had known of the fire at the Black Birches, a^ Comely Place lay so low, and the shutters had 220 THE squire's LEGACr. all been put up early, to prevent the wind dis- turbing her brother. That paper was in her brother's writing, and he had had it in his hand that evening, reading aloud to her what he had just written there. It was part of an ode on the death of Queen Victoria, whom her brother, in his moments of excitement, was accustomed to fancy dead. " Steven Chamberlain." " Doris," whispered Miss Joan, breathlessly, *' I did not think of this. Look how grieved Mr. Monkton is that Mr. Chamberlain is here at all. He would evidently never have sum- inoned either Margaret or her brother. How low Mr. Chamberlain speaks !" Very low, yet every word was heard dis- tinctly, in its slow, gentle clearness. But then the silence was intense now, while this man, who had been a stranger even among his neigh- bours, betrayed at last, before them all, the reason of his isolation. He remembered the night they spoke of— no, not the date, but the wind ; it had been high for several nights, but he had been spending the time with his sister, and the doors were locked. On that night he went out through THE squire's legacy. 221 the library window. He wanted to hear the wind nearer ; he could not stay indoors when it was calling to him. He walked by the river, and crossed by the foot-bridge near the Black Birches; when he reached the gate of the stackyard, he put down, upon the top bar, the paper he had carried in his hand, and repeated the verses. It was like singing them to music to repeat them in the wind. Afterwards he heard footsteps behind him, and he moved aside hurriedly, fearing some one was seeking him. A man passed on to the gate where he had stood, and stopped and struck a light ; and then he did something to his lantern, picking a paper from the ground and putting it inside. After that the man climbed the gate, and went out of sight. He missed the paper then, and knew he must have dropped it at the gate. That was the paper, certainly. It was part of au ode on the death of Queen Victoria. No, Queen Victoria was not dead, but sometimes he felt sure she was. Tes, he could repeat the verse written there. " Oh, auntie,'* sobbed Doris, when the lines had been repeated, with a dreamy slowness which was terribly pathetic, *' how shall I ever forgive myself?" 222 THE squire's legacy. . But Miss Joan was crying too, for Margaret's secret had been, till now, equally unguessed by her. Mr. Chamberlain started as if from a dream, •after his verse was ended, and they had begun to question him again, while a pitiful murmur ran through the court. He had lefb the Green Pits, and wandered on into the wood, where Mr. Monkton had found him. He had gone home with Mr. Monkton — he always did — and had parted from him at the gate of Comely Place. Yes, he had seen distinctly, for a few moments, the face of the man who lighted the lantern and olimbed into the yard. Certainly he should know him. Turning his gentle eyes slowly from one face to another, Steven let them rest presently upon Oliver Wakeley. "That is he." "Any doubt r " No, no doubt at all. Why should th^e be doubt!" Then, with a slow, calm smile across at Scot, he turned and left the box, holding the palm of his right hand upon his forehead. And the crowd drew softly back and made a way for THE squire's legacy. 223 him, for which he thanked them very simply and quietly. "William Scot Monkton." At first, when this call was answered by a little boy whom Mr. Bradford led to his place, there was an exclamation of surprise which amounted to displeasure ; but, when the child had taken the oath, and answered the first questions with his strange unchildlike serious- ness, and then looked wistfully across at Scot without a smile, another sound was heard among the crowd, ahd Mr. Bradford, standing ao composedly beside the child, knew it to mean not only sympathy but expectation. Tes, the boy said, folding his little hands before him, as solemnly as if the oath had made the words a prayer, he remembered the night of the fire. He remembered Mr. Monkton writing a letter; then having games with him; then ^ playing ; then receiving a letter, and going out. He had said something about going to Comely Place, so presently — ^whenMissMichal had gone away, and he was left — he ran to the door and opened it, and called Mr. Monkton. Mr. Monkton did not answer, so he had run on — and on — ^towards Comely Place. And he got 224 THE squire's legacy. there, and Miss Ghamberlain was looking out at the door, and was not angry with him, but took him in. Oh, yes, he should know the door again. Miss Chamberlain showed him pictures, but he did not look at them ; he only tried not to cry. Mr. Monkton came at last, and took him. He was on his shoulder most of the way home. When they came through one gate, Mr. Monkton stopped quite suddenly, and started back, and stood a long time quite still ; and his shoulders were heaving, and he was frightened because they could see a blaze, and because Mr. Monkton stood so very still. He spoke at last, and tried to kiss him. But Mr. Monkton didn't^ and went on, and didn't speak a word more. Yes ; he had been talking before, all the while. Oh, yes, he should know the gate in a moment. It was just across the road from Comely Place. This, in slow, childish languajge, was what Willy said ; and, when, after his last un&iling " thenk you," he looked up into Mr. Bradford's face, and asked, " Will he come now ?" the intense gleam of hope in the question, from the grave .child, touched one or two hearts with keen compassion. " Anna Wakeley." THE squire's legacy, 225 Her cheeks had growu hollow, and her eyes fell presently from their steadfast gaze upon her questioners ; but still she had a little of the old calm which for so long had deserted her. She had overheard her husband and Philippe Sourdet arrange to set fire to one of the stacks at the Green Pits, on a certain night last Decern* ber; and they had left the cottage separately, after dark on that night. Before morning they had returned together, and she had heard no further word on this subject from either of them. Her husband had been imprisoned two days afterwards. He returned home on the eighteenth of January, and was surprised that Mr. Sourdet was not at the cottage. He went on expecting him up to the night of the twentieth, when he left the house, carrying with him Mr, Soiirdet's lantern — ^yes, the one produced. He returned about two o'clock, put aside the lantern, and sat before the fire. It was many minutes after that when she first saw the flames —by chance, as the shutters had been closed. She and her husband afterwards went down to the Green Pits to assist, but she had not seen him while there. He returned home after her. From that night the lantern had never been VOL. ni. Q 226 THE squire's LEOAGT. moved until she had given it into the hand of Colonel Egerton's butler. It had been returned to her, a few dajs afterwards, by a young man Bhe had then understood to be a groom of Miss Egerton's ; but, after seeming to return it, and talking about it, he had taken it away again -with him. Never, since the night of the fire, liad her husband stayed out late, though he had Joeen accustomed to do so. Her husband and * Mr. Sourdet had not mentioned any motive, when they had planned a fire in Mr. Monkton's yard. She had felt sure of their intention before, but only by stray words. What she overheard was 'the deliberate plan. " Mary Soardet." Doris's eyes — full even of gratitude as well as •compassion — had been following Anna Wakeley from the court, but at this name they came back in quick surprise. Had it not been believed th^t there was no friend or relative to claim those disfigured remains, whose burial at last rScot Monkton himself had arranged ? The woman, standing stiff and upright, and speaking with a broad, peculiar accent which nb one recognised, said she was wife to Philippe Sourdet. Since her return from Australia with THE squire's legacy. 227 her husband, three years ago^ she had lived chiefly in London, though she had spent months at a time in other places with him. She had heard of his death, but had not thought it wise to claim the body, as he had lived under various names, and she had supposed that this adver- tising by the name of Sourdet might be a ruse. She knew that her husband, had possessed letters which belonged to the Monkton family, and that he had wished to sell them for ten thousand pounds. He had endeavoured at various times to obtain that sum, both from Mr. Monkton and from his solicitor ; and she knew that they had not purchased because they considered the letters to be unimportant. In December of last year she had received a letter from her hus- band, who was then staying at Kingswood, in the house of a man named Wakeley. That was the letter. It was written in French, and ex- plained to her a design of Wakeley'e to fire Mr. Monkton's haggard, with her husband's con- nivance. He had agreed, because it would serve his purpose, by impoverishing Mr. Monk- ton. — ^Tes, that was a correct translation of the letter which the gentleman had given. The q2 228 THE squire's legacy. handwriting was her husband's. Of course she could swear to it. These were the facts which, for Doris, stood out clearly from the ceaseless questioning, and were made doubly clear at last by one voice which, with pleasant confidence, pronounced no link missing in the evidence — spoke of Stanley Monkton as one who had a selfish interest in all he said, because he contested the claims of this child, who was lawful heir to his family pro- perty ; and of Oliver Wakeley as a man who had already been convicted fourteen times in a court of law. Then Doris knew that the judge was speak* ing, and that in a few minutes more " Doris— Doris, my child, look up I Are you not glad? My darling, did you not hear the verdict ?" But Doris did not lift her head. The intense and overpowering joy of hearing those two words, " Not guilty," had done what suspense and anxiety could not do, and there lipon the rail of the gallery, she leaned in utter uncon- Bciousness. Though, under Miss Joan's skilful treatment. THE squire's legacy. 22& she opened her eyes presently, and walked from the court, and spoke now and then in greeting or farewell to those who stopped her; it was not until Kenneth was driving her home in the pony-carriage, in the fresh evening air, that the scattered memories assembled, and formed themselves strong and clear again within her brain, ** When you heard the .verdict, were you so glad, my darling ?" Kenneth .asked it gently, as he turned to face her. To him it seemed natural that the heat and excitement of such a new experience, and her deep sympathy with Scot Monkton, should have caused her to faint ; but he knew that it had been in the reaction of gladness. ** We never, from the beginning of the trial, had the slightest fear of what the verdict would be." " I suppose I need not have had," said Doris, gently, " as he was innocent. Mr. Brad- ford " "Mr. Bradford," laughed Kenneth, in her pause, "has not been content with proving Scot Monkton innocent, dear ; he has got the guilty man fast now. We had him arrested as te left the court ; Raine had got the warrant. 230 THE SQUIRE^S LEGACY. Now I suppose my father will be happy. He has ensured Anna Wakeley's safety and com- fort — for the man is sure to get twenty-one years, if not a sentence for life — and, besides that, he has fulfilled what he considers one of man's highest duties — got rid of a rascal." ** Oh ! Kenneth, what good news I Now Anna can lead a peaceful and untroubled life» Where are papa and Aunt Joan?" *^ Aunt Joan drove at once to the Black Birches, to comfort Miss Michal, and took little Willy in the carriage with her, and Liath en the box. My pet, you should have heard a few of little Liath's expressions of joy ; you must have laughed, in spite of all. Colonel Egerton is with Mr. Monkton, and so is Major Porter, and a host more of Scot Monkton's friends." " And his cousin f " " Oh, he went away, defiant. But taking shelter too, surreptitiously, under the wing of his landlord — not Sutton, the Squire's old butler ; he suggestively requested him to move out of his hotel some time ago, when hi& motive here was first guessed. Did you hear Sutton's cheer to-day ?" " And Margaret Chamberlain !" asked Doris^ THE squire's legaoy. 23t after a pause, uttering very gently now the name she had so long spoken only with impatience. " She went home with her brother as soon as his evidence was over/' *' Kenneth, how was that done 1 How could she be persuaded!" ^* Quite easily, dear," he replied, understanding her great earnestness. ^^ Margaret herself saw it was right, and needed no persuasion from my father ; so did Anna Wakeley — at last." ^^ And how did he find a relative of Monsieur Bourdet'si when the attempt had beien in vain before?" " That was managed by my father, though with a good deal of diflSculty. He traced her from San Remo, where he had once had a rather curious scene with her, which gave^ him the vantage-ground he needed; and he had another scene with her in London. She was not easily led (even though she had no more fear of her husband) ; but Raine found out enough to assure him she would not be above a bribe» and he was right. As she said, she had been afraid to claim relationship, because she knew various secrets of her husband's life; but I TPP^^^^^"-^*— ^^^w-'W « I * p Ji m^^i^^^vmmmmmmmmmm 232 THE squire's legacy. believe they had helped each other pretty equally, both being unscrupulous and fond of money." There was a brief silence, while the ponies ran on in the chilly twilights "I wish," said Doris, at last, speaking re- gretfully, just as they came within sight of Kingswood, " that I had spoken to Mr. Monk- ton. I did not seem — awake*" "I don't think he missed your words, dear," observed Kenneth, with a smile, " for I never saw anyone look so glad and grateful as i/qu did when you shook hands with him, before I drove you oflF in such a hurry." 233 CHAPTER XIV. THE drawing-room at Comely Place was darkened a little next morning, for Miss Chamberlain sat alone there, suffering from a painful headache. She Jay back in her low chair, her eyes and teeth both closed in her pain ; and while she sat thus, some one entered the room unannounced, and came softly to her side. "Margaret," whispered Doris, frightened a little at the look of pain, and slipping involun- tarily to her knees upon the rug, as she laid her hands on Margaret^s, " will you ever forgive me ? I have been so cold, while you have had BO much to suffer 1 I never knew till yesterday. Oh 1 Margaret, can you ever forgive me t" " Why was it 1" asked Margaret, as she wearily opened her eyes ; " why did you always » ahun me 1" 234 THE squire's legacy. " Did you not know ? I thought you would know. I resented your treatment of Arthur." " My treatment of Arthur 1" echoed Margaret^ in a adow, wondering tone. " Oh I Doris, my child, I hope and pray that you may never know such love as mine for Arthur." " You love him, Margaret ! And yet ^" " Yes," she interrupted, gently ; " and yet I am here alone, Margaret Chamberlain still ; and he is alone elsewhere, blaming me in hi» heart-^as he must do — as he will do all his life." "You loved him," pursued Doris, lost in wonder, "and you let him go away believing that you cared nothing for him 1'' " Yes. Could I do otherwise, with this cloud upon my life ! You see it now — every one will see it now — ^and I can speak of it even to you- You can see now how impossible it was that I should consent to be the wife of— of any one^ but most of all of one I loved so dearly, and into whose life 1 could not be the one to bripg care and misery." "I see your reason — ^your brave reason," said Doris, thoughtfiilly. "But why did you not tell him, Margaret ?" THE squire's legacy. 235 " And give him," Margaret answered, smiling sadly, " this pain I bear, as well as lengthen for myself the suiFering of resisting him ?" *'I can see now," said Doris, softly, "Aoi^r you loved him." "Loved him!" cried Margaret, her thin fingers tightly locked. "I loved him more dearly far than my own happiness — and you must know, Doris, how in our youth we all love^ happiness. Did you never guess what was my love for him, by my wish to love you — his- sister ? It was not for yourself I sought you when you first came. How could it be, when you were cold as ice to me? But you were Arthur's sister, and I longed to give to one he loved a little of the love with which so long ago he had filled my heart." " Oh, Margaret," cried Doris, softly, in a very^ passion of appeal, " will you ever forgive me for my hard judgment of you I" " It is forgotten long ago, dear ; not only be- cause I could resent nothing which Arthur s sister said, or left unsaid, but because you were so pleasant and so bright to Steven. Doris, I shall never, through all my life, forget the^ gratitude I felt to you for that." 236 THE squire's legacy. '*I — I think," faltered Doris, looking up from Margaret's knee, " I longed always to be your friend, but I dared only try to be Steven's, be- cause of my fealty to Arthur. I — I had hard work always, Margaret — it seems to me now in looking back — really to believe you heartless; and the harder it was the more I persisted. Oh, ho,w can you bear that Arthur should think you heartless too?" " Even that is better, far better," said Mar- garet, with deep earnestness, *'than that a child of his should ever suffer, in the after years, as I have suffered ; or lead that living death which has been my father's for twelve years, and, which, at any moment, may be Steven's " " Oh, Margaret, how terrible !" "The fear and the responsibility make it almost a living death for me too, sometimes," continued Margaret, slowly ; " yet only sometimes. I am gratefiil in my heart for being spared to Steven, and he is often very happy with me. Only now and then does this dangerous excite- ment seize him — the excitement of which he himself spoke yesterday in court. Any commo* tion of the elements, wind, or rain, or thunder, excites him terribly, and he escapes at once into THE squire's legacy. 237 it* Those are the times when I fear how it may- end ; and yet between the attacks he is quiet,, and sensible — as you have known him* The physician who has charge of my father, say& ^Steven's faculties are only enchained, and that he knows the right and may be trusted to follow it ; though his own personal safety must be in danger during his wanderings. So there is always the fear for him, and I have sadly dreaded this last excitement of appearing at the trial." " Yet you risked it V "Indeed I risked it," said Margaret, thought- fully, " for Scot's sake, who would never him- self have asked it^ but has always kept my secret honourably, and has been true and good to Steven. I don't know how Mr. Bradford managed it all, but I had little trouble after my &st request to Steven ; and — and I saw how gently and skilfully he had been dealt with, by his ease and clearness yesterday. I know quite well that Steven sometimes really thinks^ and that he had been convinced yesterday that he was — by remembering everything — to help Scot." « And he did." ?aMc^idDaB^aeaBaaoa 238 THE squire's legaot, " Yes, he did ; and what do we not both owe to Soot T Not of great gifts, or denial, so much as of constant, thoughtful help, on which we could always kan and trust. Long ago he made me promise to trust him always (in this neighbourhood, only he and his father have ever known our secret), and I did indeed trust him, seeking him always in my fear. No one else could, or would, have helped me as he did ; with no one else would Steven have returned to me so quietly and willingly. So is it won- derful that I should think gratefully of Scot Monkton?" ** But, Margaret," said Doris, gazing wistfully Tip through her tears, " if you had told Arthur the truth, he would have made it easier for you." *^ Nothing could make it easier," Margaret answered, with deep thought. As it has been, it will go on to the end ; and then, perhaps — as I shall be true to him through all my life, — I may tell him so in Heaven." " And yon have bravely given up your own life " " No," interrupted Margaret, with a gentle smile ; ** it was no brave deed. I saw that only THE squire's legacy. 239 one thing was right for me to do, and I — I left the rest to, God. Though my life must always be a life apart " '* No, no 1" cried Doris, eagerly, ** never apart, Margaret — never apart from me again I Oh I Margaret, never apart from me, for Arthur's sake 1" " Dear little JHend," said Margaret, tenderly, as she bent to kiss the pleading face, *^ I have loved you always, for Arthur^ a sake. And now you will think less hardly of me T" ' *' Less hardly I Oh ! Margaret, what a lesson for me never to judge another 1 Can you reaUy let me be your friend, and Steven's T" " You have always been Steven's friend," said Margaret, clasping the hand which sought hers. " Now let us go to him." They found him in the high shrubbery which nearly surrounded the house, and he stopped, and smiled to see them. He had been singing softly to himself) but the low, uncertain notes ceased at their approach. ''It was a lark," he said/ touching Doris's shoulder with one hand, while he pointed with the other; "he will finish it quite as well alone. Did you come to listen ?" 240 THE squire's legacy. They strolled on together, and, as Doris talked and listened to him, the dazed look left his face, and he talked gently and sensibly, the abrupt break in some of his sentences being filled brightly by Doris. She idled with them a long time, seeing that it did Steven good, and that Margaret, in her care for him, was pleased; and when she left, she asked, quite wistfully, if she might come again soon« «««««« it- Kenneth was waiting for her near Comely Place, and they loitered together in the Winter sunshine, picturing Kenneth's coming triumph, and making the most of these last hours they could spend together. When, at last, the parting was over, Doris went to her own room, and wrote — first a long letter to her brother in Mexico j and then a tiny one to Kenneth, in London, that it might surprise him the next morning, and — as he told her that her letters always did — make the whole day seem bright. And he, recalling her dear words, went on, with eager earnestness, up the steep path he trod to meet his fate. 241 CHAPTER XV. " npHEN you don't like this room, my darling V* A "You may well laugh as you ask me, Kenneth. Of course 1 don't." This was Doris Egerton's first visit to Ken- neth's roomin the quietstreet between the Strand and the river ; and she had come with him now because she wished to see where he had written most of the drama which to*night she was to see upon the stage. "Doris, I can scarcely believe that there has really come at last the realization of that dream which has been mine for so many years." He had stopped in his task of sorting the papers on the table, his eyes resting upon her, as she stood looking out. " I shall never be able again to imagine the seventeenth of April a usual sort of day. Ken,** she remarked, brightly, and, though her eyes VOL. ni. 3 242 THE SQUIRBJ'S LEGACY. had not turned back to meet his, he smiled as he resumed his task. " Kenneth," she said, presently, with a shud- der, " some of the windows here look as if they had not been opened for ages. How dismal for you 1" " Not for me, dear ; I rarely see them. There's a curious legend attached to one room though — dismal indeed, as you say. The shutters have really been closed for years, and the room has been fastened. No woi^der, though ; for if a bride — she was almost a bride that 4^y — can prove faithless to her promised husband-:^r^" '^ It ought to mal^e her house look dismal for a hundred years," put in Doris, hurriedly, a^she joined hipc^ at the table. " But," Kenneth went on, as he slowly tore up a loose sheet of manuscript, *'it was the lover's home which was left so, and — it isn't a hundred years ago, dear." " Many of these houses have gloomy legends belonging to them, haven't they, Kenneth ?" " There are historical associations ^" ^^Ahs but those are not so interesting as ghosts ; your room has a ghost, I dare say," ^' It has a good many," said E^enueth, smiliug« THE squibe's legacy. 243 *^ How suddenly that Kttle lengend roused you from your thoughtfulness, Doris I" *< Because I felt," returned Doris, her eyes very bright and true, as she stood beside him, ^^ how different it was to be faithful I Oh, the wide, wide difference there is between the two words, though we can write them with nearly ^11 the letters the same. Ken, what a terrible life that girl must have led^afterwards ! But I don't want to hear more of her." — ^^ And so," 43he added, presently, "your room is haunted, is it, Ken f Not, Tm afraid, by one melancholy, interesting ghost, but by a crowd of little Pucks and Oberons." " No," laughed Kenneth. " Do you remember whose chamber * filled was with flies, which buzzed about him. These flies are thoughts and fantasies, devices, dreams, and ' — no, that's all, as Miss Michal says." ** Yet you say you are fond of the room. Ken ?" questioned Doris, reflectively. " I shall feel so if I succeed to-night ; but if I fell ^^ " You are very fond of that * if,' " said Doris, demurely. *^ If you were gifted a little more, Ken, you would see how you misplace it." r2 244 THE squire's legacy. ^' Even when people prognosticate success for me," resumed Kenneth, in his thonghtfol way, ^* I only feel that they do not understand what is my dream of success/' ^'But I do," asserted Doris, speaking very brightly for his sake ; " and, even if there were a chance of the possibility of a failure, Kenneth, in my heart there never could be any such word* Could you and I, dear Ken, go any less &ith- fully through life just because these people who chance to listen to your verse to-night cannot detect its beauty and power T" ^'Your words are bright and pleasant, like yourself, dear," Kenneth said ; " but think how I could bear to hear the world pitying you for my inffituation I If my drama is a failure to- night, Doris, it will be a great &ilure — greater than. I dare to picture." ^' Then, of course, if it is a success, it will be a great success. Tou would understand this more completely if you hadn't been working so hard lately." " If your prophecy be true, though, darling, all the hard work will soon be made up to me. But I have not worked hard — ^unless thought ia work — and I don't know at all why I should THE squire's legacy; 245 look so gaunt as I do. I thought of poor Thomas Churchyard this morning, when I first caught sight of my face in the glass. Do you remember how he says — ' I look in glass, and find my cheeks so lean — And hollow eyes in wrinkled brow doth shroud. As though two stars were creeping under cloud?'" *^ I suppose he was about a hundred when he Wrote that," remarked Doris, dryly ; " and you have no sense of the fitness of things. Now come. Ken ; you don't deserve to look so hand- some as you will to-night, or that I should be 430 proud of you as I shall be sure to be, Ken- neth " — with puckered lips and dancing eyes — " you will never be able to take your eyes from my dress 1" *^ I think I shall," he said, with his dreamy smile ; " but they will not stray far from the dress, either. What is itf" " Just as if you would understand, even if I elaborately described it 1" " Try me." "When I warn you," she began, gravely — they were out in the quiet street now, walking side i)y side — "that it is made of a French material, do you still rush headlong into con- fusion I" 246 THE squire's legacy. « Yes." " Then what do you think of — tr^tanm ? Oh f this IB too much I'* she added, as Kenneth laugh- ed frankly out. " 1 expected you to say that that would look beautiful^ knowing nothing at all yourself about it, and relying itnplicitly on my taste. Why, you actually seem to know what cretonne is, Ken !** " Slightly. Has your dress birds of Paradise all over it f *' You evidently think you understand a great deal," she answered with dignity ; "but I know, if I told you the real material, you would have no notion of it." " Perhaps not ; but tell me the colour." " I shall tell you everything," said the girl^ with a sudden change of tone. " It's what you always call two dresses. Ken ; first, a gorgeous^ silk one, the colour of a turquoise — I chose that, because in Warsaw, where papa bought me my turquoise ring, they told him its colour indicated prosperity — and then over it there's a gauzy sort of white fabric, which I'm sure you couldn't understand, because I shall never un- derstand it myself until I see it on. Of course it is altogether quite simple — ^not a ball-dress at THte squire's legacy. 247 all^^only I Wanted it to be, la,s far as possible, perfect for to-night, Do you tbisk you shall Kke it?" " If yt)U went in " /* CrStonnej with bird* of paradisej" suggested Doris. " Yes ; however you went, dear, there would be none prettier or brighter in the theatre.*' " In your eyes," added tbe girl, in her soft tonesi ** I like to think that, Ken." As they walked on, through the busy streets and the quiet ones, Doris chatted brightly, and kept Eennetii's attention engrossed; though every now and then, as they passed the walls on which was placarded the name of his drama^ the talk would again fall, for a little, into the old groove. *^But, Kenneth," cried Doris, astonished, when he offered her his hand in the portico of Miss Bradford's house in Gordon Square, " you are (coming in, of course} Aunt Joan will just be ready for luncheon." " No, I cannot stay, dear ; I am going to the theatre. BesideSj I am not hungry — ^indeed I could ttot eat." • "But a glass of wine. Ken? You must come 1" 248 THE sqihre's legacy. He shook his head, an^ stopped a passing cab. ** Good-bye for a little time," he said. *' You — you won't do anything unnecessary to-day, Ken," she entreated, standing with her hand in his in the quiet shadow of the portico, " to tire yourself before to-night." « No, darling." " You — ^you feel hopeful, Kenneth," she went on, impelled to the questions by some feeling which she hardly comprehended, "and — and happy I" " So happy, darling, in your love." She stood to see him start, with a smile upon her lips ; and she had a smile for her aunt when she joined her a minute or two afterwards ; yet, before they rose from the luncheon-table, Miss Joan wondered — only once aloud, but- many times to herself — why she heard no sound of the familiar laughter. When they entered the drawing-room, Doris tempted her aunt to that window which open* ed to the roof of the portico, under an awning and among the flowers; then she drew her own low chair beside her aunt's, but did not seem to have any words to say to Miss Joan, THE squire's LEQACY. 249 though she looked "wistfally at her once or twice, as if she would have liked a voice to break her own long thought. And so the afternoon wore slowly on. " You've never once turned a leaf, I firmly believe,'* remarked Miss Joan at last. " Aren't you reading?" "No, auntie." " Would you not like to go and play, then ?" « Oh, no 1" Again the silence ; while Miss Joan knitted, uninterrupted by the anxious glances she cast at the girl, and while Doris looked out upon the tiny leaves stirring softly on the plantain^trees ; and thought of the many, many times she had sat here, as a child, with Kenneth, weaving romances, boundless as the Summer sky, yet brought back to her always by the sight of the narrow line of trees before her. " There, Doris," cried Miss Joan, delighted at the interruption, when a servant brought in a parcel for Miss Egerton ; " what do you guess that can be?" (" For now," thought Miss Joan, with a feeling of great relief} ^^ I shall have her once more alert and cheerful.") « What is it, auntie ? What can it be ?" 350 T&E squire's legacy. "Perhaps you Wotdd learn more readily if you looked inside, my dear." So Doris, smiliDg now, cut the string, to find an inner paper on which was written^ "With Kenneth's love/' and which enfolded a morocco case^ " Oh, Aunt Joan," she cried, without Raising her head, when she had opened the case, "it is a whole set of turquoise ornaments ! So lovely 1" "Doris, my dear, when you have quite satisfactorily returned from your reverie^ per- haps you will show me the jewels." " Oh, Auntie," cried the girl^ rising quickly at this reminder of her long silence, " hoW forget- ful of me ! I was only thinking." "But I don't quite see, my dear," rejoined Miss Joan, looking through her spectacles at Doris, as she knelt beside her, " why, with such a gift in your hand^ the thought should have been a sad thought." " No, Auntie," Doris assented, softly, as she kissed her, " but I couldn't help it. I have the hardest work to avoid being sad to-day — even to-day of all days — and — and these made me more so. Oh, what would I not give if the day THE SQRIUE'S legacy. 251 were over — for Kenneth's sake ?" " Is he so anxious still, dear?" " No, I think not, but I cannot look at him, or even think of him, without knowing hov much he considers at stake to-day." Miss Joan, sitting so quietly there, with her clear gaze on her pet's face, saw — as a simple, loving nature often will see — the kindest and the wisest way to treat this inexplicable de- pression, for which she had hardly been un- prepared in the excitement of the day* " They are very beautiful !" she said, looking down upon the ornaments. *' In your chosen dress, and in these, dear, you will look lovely enough to give Kenneth, without a word, the brightest compliment of the Uight." « Thank you. Aunt Joan." Another silence, which was broken wistfully, at last, by Doris. " Auntie, I — I wish you would talk." ** My dear," returned the old lady, grasping, with the greatest dexterity, the consciousness that the girl was weary of her own thoughts, *'I am always talking. I was talking then, wasn't I? — or was it only to myself? You see, I often talk to myself when I am here 252 THE squire's legacy. alone, and I daresay you fiometiines hear me» and laugh." '< Indeed I don't, auntie," said Doris, feeling §.lready that her aunt's simple words were slowly drivinf)^ back into chaos her haunting and foreboding thoughts ; " I expect you talk to yourself quietly — for you were very quiet just then." ^* Perhaps so, my dear," acknowledged Miss Joan, briskly, her kind heart prompting her so eflTeotually in her search for conversation, that she had already gained her desire. ^^I was wondering then why genius doesn't run more in families. There's a partiality and want of fairness about its choosing one, and leaving his relatives quite ordinary mortals. Fm sure, if I had had my wish, I should have been a genius ; and, as wishing is the only thing we can do towards getting it, if we do our best in that, we ought to be successful — don't you think so, my dearf "We should all be geniuses, I suppose, it that were so," said Doris, as the thoughts went slowly farther and farther back into that chaos from which they had risen. " Yes, I suppose we should," assented Miss THE squire's legacy, 25^ Joan, immediately ; " and the world would not, perhaps, be so comfortable. But I always was a hero-worshipper," she resumed, after only a moment's pause, her eyes upon her knitting, and her mind, to all appearance, buried in her reminiscences. ^* Once, when I was in Ireland, I walked five miles to see the celebrated Miss Mangnall. I remember quite well how your papa teased me, and said her celebrity was questionable — a sort of joke, my dear, upon her book of Questions. Well — where was I ?" "Did you see her?" asked Doris, falling, without suspicion, though with unconscious willingness, into the conversational snare pre- pared for her. " I did, my dear ; and a great blow it was. She was a small old lady, in a mob cap — ^that did not matter; but she was cheeriiil, and I never could reconcile myself to that fact, and never shall. That she should be cheerful after writing so much grammar, and wading through the Reformation, the Revolution, and the Re- storation, was, and is, incredible to me; and doesn't look straightforward and natural, my dear." "What next, auntie I" asked Doris, fairly laughing now. 254 THE squire's LEOACT. • '< My next excitement was when a friend pro. mised me a thimble which h^d been Jane Aus- tin's. Think of it^ I did, day and night. A thimb)e which had touched the hand that immortalised Emma^ and threw such a charm roupd Pride and Sensibility — I think that is the title, my dear, but sometimes my ipemory is a little deceptive in fiction, as you know. \ sup- pose it was because my enthusiasm was so boundless over this ai^ticipation, that my friend found it best not to encourage me by ever ful- filling her promise. Yet T never remember," continued the old lady, in her musing, cheerM tone, "being myself visited by the divine afflatus, or attempting literature, save in a diary — which, though rather a fashionable form for fiction, is, in my opinion, rather ' inclined to be personal. For iqstauQe^ take to- day for an example-^* Wedaeeday^ April 17. — Discovered the moths in my sable. Letter from one of my old housemaids, who finds that the gentlemanly man she has married is what he calls an " asker," which is nothing more nor less than a professional beggar, to whom belongs a certain corner in Regent Street. She * has a comfortable house and good income, but still she THE squire's legacy. 255 k not satisfied, an uncomfortable consciousness of his daily dilapidations militating against her perfect enjoyment. No other letter, but an invitation to dine with the Brents — refused it, as their soup is always cold, and their entries too highly flavoured, and old Miss Brent always fiingft ''Life let us cherish," which is, I think, impossible upon their dinners. This even-f ing ' " Quick as thought Miss Joan cbapg^ the drift of her words, as she felt how nearly they would touch her own heart, as well as Doris's, in the mention of what the evening was to witness. *^ That, my dear, would have beeii a good specin^en day, and yet I feel that^ as literature, it might be deficient in excitement for the general publia What do you see, my dear?" " Mr. Bradford, auntie^ May I open the door to him ?" ' Dori« was da\^A the stairs almost before Miss Joan had answered, but still, when she returned to the old lawyer's side, it seemed as if even those few minutes had suffioed to bring back that incomprehensible heaviness of heart which was so new to her. " Kenneth not here f " questioned Mr. Brad- ford, looking round him in surprise. 256 THE squire's legacy. " He went to the rehearsal," Doris answered ; "but he said he would certainly return to dinner." "I doubt his remembering to-day that life holds such an institution as dinner. Joan, I should ask for a glass of your port, only ten to one it will have been standing for three or four days in the decanter. That's the worst of being a small family." " Ton should come oftener to help me," said Joan, as she rang ; ^ but I will insure you a fresh bottle, cousin." " I'll try to believe it — even while I drink it.'^ Epicure as he was, he took the wine at a draught, and both Miss Joan and Doris saw that he could maintain his usual calm now only by a great eJBfort ; still he did maintain it, and, to all appearance, talked on with coolness and indifference. " Then you are really going to-night, Joan I" he questioned, with a brightening of his face which touched Miss Joan visibly. "Tes, I have changed my mind, though I still—" *' Pooh, pooh I If you are weak enough to go, you cannot be wise enough to have qualms. THE squire's legacy. 257 Off to decorate, are jou, Doris t And as silent as the harp that once Jaques made a mis- take, my dear, in thinking it good to be sad and say nothing." ** I don't, Mr. Bradford — ^indeed I don't," said Doris, eagerly. "I — I know I've been silent, but, in truth, I had no cause. And, as for being sad to-day of all days " ** I see no difference between to-day and yes- terday," was the quick rejoinder, "and to- morrow." " But you will see a difference, Mr. Bradford, before the day is over. Wait and see." Doris was first to return to the drawing- room, as she had fancied Kenneth would be there. But, except that Mr. Bradford walk- ed slowly to and fro through the length of both the drawing-rooms, they were empty. Never afraid of a rebuff from the old man, even in his sternest moods, she went gently up apd stood before him, to show him Kenneth's present ; and, while she stood so, smiling at the admiration so plainly to be read in his shrewd eyes, though expressed rather ambigu- ously by the one word, "Indeed I" Colonel VOL. ni. s 258 THE squire's legacy. Egerton and Scot Monkton came in together, and there was a further examination of the turquoise ornament. " I will take them oJBf," said Doris ; for she saw that Mr. Monkton, from where he stood, •could not see them quite as thej should be seen. " Well done, Kenneth," said Colonel Egerton, oordially, as he passed them on. " What do you think of them now ?" asked Doris, when they reached Scot's hands. " The workmanship, you mean I" "Not exactly; but the beauty of them al- together." "You have prevented my seeing that. I understood I was to study the back of the setting." " If you will allow me," said Doris, with the greatest gravity, "I would suggest that they look prettier the right side up." "Prettier is but a mean comparative. Let us see where they look prettiest of all." She took the ornaments, and put them on again, smiling a little to see how everyone watched her, and only the very faintest tinge of colour rising in her cheeks, because she was THE SQUIRE'S LEGACY. 259 sure that Mr. Monkton had a laugh in his eyes. "And pray, Miss Egerton," inquired her father, finding it quite impossible to conceal his intense pride in her, as she stood before him ; her blue eyes shy in all their merriment, her lips breaking from their gravity into smiles, her dress exquisite in the richness of its turquoise sheen, and the purity of its soft whiteness ; " do you consider we are appareUed Avdth sufficient gorgeousness to accompany yout" " Don't you see, papa," she answered, very softly, as she looked up into his face, " I wished to please and compliment Kenneth to*night ?" Miss Joan had entered now, soft and har- monious, like an evening landscape, in her white lace and lilac satin — ^and still Kenneth had not come. Scot walked to a window to look out for him ; and just then, for the first time, the old lawyer ceased the cool remarks by which he had chosen to detain Doris beside him, and she came up to Scot. " Mr. Monkton, I am sure it was you who sent me two white roses this afternoon. I found them in my room when I went to dress." "Yes, I sent them," he confessed, frankly. "I felt sure Kenneth would give you your s2 260 THE squire's lecJacy. bouquet, as well as the flowers you wear (you nearly always wear flowers ; I've noticed that ever since I knew you first) ; but I thought you would leave mine at home, and perhaps they might not be faded on your return. I believe it was ridiculous to buy them, for they have no pretensions to a bouquet." " They are very lovely !" said Doris, utterly unconscious how lovely she herself was, in his eyes, just then, with that wonderful gentleness which sometimes enfolded her in his presence, as if it were the subtle consciousness of a pain near her which she could not grasp. ^* This is Kenneth's bouquet; isn't it beautifult And these" — touching a few snowdrops which nestled, almost unseen, where her dress fastened below the open frilling at her throat — "are Kenneth's too ; but I have left only one of your roses to greet us when we come home. The other is — do you recognise it ?" She bent her head down, just as if she had forgotten that he must look down upon it in any way ; and, for a moment, the fragrance of the rose gave him a thrill of happiness which was rare with him. In the next, he turned his eyes from the sunny hair and the rich flower. THE squire's legacy. 261 ' " I hope you will be able to get it out readily, when you need a flower to throw at any of the actors." '^ Oh, that reminds me !" she said, with a laugh. "I must show you the boucjuet Mr. Levey has sent me. I hadn't intended to take it, but now I see how I can make it useful. I suppose" — demurely — '* gentlemen don't, as a rule, care to carry bouquets t" '^ I could fancy its constituting the height of bliss for some men — ^Mr. Bradford, for instance." " Or yourself, Mr. Monkton," laughed Doris. A sudden rapid wish darted into her head just then — as she noticed that he wore no flowers — but it did not reach her lips. In her heart she knew him better than she fancied, even when his light words puzzled her. ^' It is a fine bouquet," she said^ gravely. , "And he is a fine fellow," put in Mr. Brad- ford, who had strolled up to them. "Doris, surely Aunt Joan has not educated you so blindly that you don't discern the advantage of prunello over leather. And so the Leveys are Lowu for to-night r " Everybody is in town for to-night," asserted Scot, in his genial way. 262 THE squire's legacy. .Just then Eenneth came in, pale and with almost a fevered brightness in his eyes, but unusually calm. " 1 presume," observed Mr. Bradford, putting on his glasses to examine his son, and imagining that his voice was as unmoved as usual '* that you have been detained dotting your paid men over the theatre to guide and insure plenty of applause — packing the house, in fact, to use your own vernacular — eh, lad ?" "Indeed, father," said Kenneth, with great earnestness, " 1 should not call that success." *' Oh, success is a crowd without packing, is it ? What folly I Can you suggest any mortal show or excitement which a crowd will not collect to see ? Why, the biggest I ever wit- nessed had rushed together to see one of Astley's clowns sail from Vauxhall to Westminster in a washing tub drawn by geese I That was just thirty years ago, and you weren't born, lad» If I'd known you'd been going to act clown to- day, and gather a crowd of your own, I'd never have had you baptized." They all laughed, save Kenneth ; but then he was answering Miss Joan's signal that dinner waited. THE squire's legacy. 263> **I will go and dress, then, Aunt Jpan," he said, as if the prospect of dinner in no way touched him. " No, thank you," he added, with the old lifting of his hand to his forehead, when one or two of them exclaimed that of course he must dine. " I should like " — with a brightening of his tone at the thought — ^'* I should like a cup of tea. Aunt Joan — of your particular tea, as it used to be in old times, when you first taught Doris to make it.** " I see," said Doris,^brightly ; " I shall make it this time too, Kenneth. You will find it here, all ready." When, half an hour afterwards, he re-entered the room, to find Doris alone in the twilight^ with a table drawn up among the flowers at the open window, and the tea waiting, his eyes filled with tears. She thought it not unnatural ; because in the nervous tension of his excited feelings, tears must be very near to eyes that had lately known so little sleep. But he knew that, weak as he was, these womanish tears would not have risen, but that, beyond the soothing prettiness of the picture, came the sud- den realization of her having left them all to wait here for Aim, as if she knew how entirely she belonged to him. 264 THE squire's legacy. " Dinner is quite over, Ken," she said, lifting the cosy and looking inquiringly into the tea- pot, to make a perfect certainty of not being able to see the tears in his eyes ; *' but papa isn't going to leave his wine just yet — not he I I expect " — ^with a pleasant little matronly air — " that they will join our tea as soon as ever they can." " Our teal" repeated Kenneth, taking the seat she had drawn up for him, and leaning one arm rather wearily upon the table, though his face had no weariness in its bright glance of love. *' How you must have hastened over dinner, to give me this pleasure ! And I see how kind they all are to treat my discourtesy and my whims so generously. I know they will come presently, and I know why ; but in the meantime they have given you to me for these few minutes. Doris, I wish I could tell you — I tried before, but I could not — ^how lovely you look to- night." " But I know," returned Doris, with gravity. **That is one of the few things I know better than you do, Ken. Tell me something else." "I cannot : my thoughts will hold only you just now." THE squire's legacy. 2G5 " That's most ungrateful of you. Where is your appreciation of that splendid cup of tea ? Why, you have finished it, Ken 1" " Yes ; will you give me another ? I am so glad you liked my present, Doris. I heard your whispered thanks, but the dearest return was to see the ornaments on you." "You remember the legend of the stone?" asked Doris, as she sipped her own tea complacently. "Yes, that was why I chose them. You have granted every one of my requests to-day, Doris. I see my snowdrops in your dress. You remember how yoa wore them on that afternoon at Bichmond when you made me a promise about to-night? The time between that day and this seems very short. Yet to think of the changes it has wrought in some lives — Mr. Monkton's, for instance 1" " Wasn't it pleasant of him to come from the Black Birches for to-day. Ken ? And doesn't he look to-night as if he had never known such great troubles, and difficulties, and privations as he has had ?" **He can no more help looking easy and happy, when he wishes to encourage anyone — as he wishes now to encourage rne — than he 266 THE squire's legagt. can help looking as thorongh an aristocrat in his harvest^fields at the Black Birches as he does to-night. No ; don't tempt me, darling. I can- not eat, even at yonr reqnest ; but I will haye more tea, please. What a quiet Spring even- ing, Doris I And how peaceful the old square looks ! If no happiness were to lie beyond this night for me, I feel that I have had my share, even if only in those hours we have spent together here, for whole Summer evenings, weaving romances." "You teaching me everything," whispered Doris, softly. " But you always teaching me," he answered, with his gentle smile, '* how to love you." **Now the brougham is at the door. Ken, dear Ken, you will have no faint heart, will youV For it must need all one's strength to meet face to face the greatest triumph of one's life. Yes, Aunt Joan, I'm ready." " Then come, dear ; your papa and Mr. Monkton walked on ten minutes ago, and I would not keep them waiting in the vestibule. Make haste, Kenneth. Though your father is a model of patience to-night — ^not that he thinks we see it, though — I would not keep him longer pacing the hall." 267 CHAPTER XVI. COLONEL EGERTON'S box was still unoo cupied, while the author's, which was next to it, was rather over-crowded ; but then this was only a temporary gathering about the chairs af Miss Bradford and Doris. The girl's eyes wandered round the crowded building, with a brilliance in them which in itself would have made her a mark of observation, even if her prettinesB and grace had not done so. " I see — oh, I can see such numbers effaces I know ! Can you, Kenneth ?" " No," he answered, turning his head slowly ; " I see no one whom I know, Doris. I see a crowd, but I cannot recognise one face." The brilliance left her eyes in a moment, but, after that anxious glance at him, she looked round, with a strange, nervous wistfulness. " They will give us more light presently," she 268 THE squire's legacy. said; and then she studied her programme for a few minutes in utter silence. " The Miss Leveys are exactly opposite us ; I have acknowledged them, and now they are bowing to you, Ken." " Bradford has just been called away, Miss Egerton." " Then it is to you Miss Levey is bowing," she said, turning with a smile to Scot., He had been in a group at the back of the box ever since their entrance, but now he was on the chair beside her. "Fm sure," she said, in her unconscious acknowledgment of how cool and easy he appeared, ** that you must know everybody here, Mr. Monkton." " I know the Miss Leveys ; but do you insist on my salaaming, because I have been with them for some minutes in the vestibule ?" " I — I thought Miss Levey bowed directly to you, " but I suppose I made a mistake. I won- der where her brother is ?" "On his way to your box," returned Scot, placidly ; " I saw him start the instant he recog- nised you ; therefore an unpropitious fate must have lured him from his circumnavigation.!' THE squire's legacy. 26? "I wish Margaret were here," said Doris, thoughtfully. " So do I ; but I could not prevail on her to come." ' " You did try ? I might have known you would." ^'Miss £gerton," asked Scot, recalling the time when she had spoken so differently of Margaret — though the recollection of how her secret had been made to win this change, could not yet bring anything but a shadow to his brow — "do you know the great men here— men, I mean, whose names are great in art ?" **Only very few of them. Please to point them out to me, Mr. Monkton. I felt quite sure you knew everybody, because so many gentle- men — and ladies too — ^spoke to you as we came upstairs." She did not see his smile as she leaned forward; eager for his information, that she might tell Kenneth, afterwards, what a dis- tinguished audience had listened to his words. One after another, he pointed out the men whose names were known in music, art, and literature ; and her eyes followed his, radiant 270 THE squire's legacy. in their excitement, while many an admiring glance was turned upon her. " Mr. Bradford," said Doris, eagerly, " there's Doctor Boyd." " So I see. I always thought Boyd a sensible man until to-nigfht." **Let us hope he never credited T. & C. Bradford with much sense," remarked Colonel Egerton, laughing. ^'Boyd asked me, on his way in, how Kenneth had fortified himself; but I couldn't tell whether he was pleased or vexed about the freak for tea. By the powers, Brad- ford, just look how crammed the house is getting 1" " Such an audience is a triumph in itself," observed Scot, speaking warmly to the old lawyer. "The better the audience, the more severe the test." " Certainly ; but the more triumphant the victory too." The band was playing when Kenneth re- turned to the box ; so Doris knew why ,Scot made way for him so quietly, and why he only returned her smile, and did not speak. When the band had ceased, and the curtain was THE squire's legacy. 271 slowly raised, Doris felt her heart beating hurriedly. "I feel, Ken," she said, wondering at his unusual calm, ''as if I were the. author. Oh I how pretty !" " Please don't credit me with the perfection of the scenery," requested Kenneth, when Scot, too, had leaned forward to speak of it, with his eyes upon the stage. " Hush 1" put in Doris, eagerly, as the play began. But she was wondering, even then, at the great calm which had fallen over Kenneth's intense excitement. The first act went on quietly, scene after scene, with that want of interest ineritable among new characters ; and when the curtain fell, it was only to an even, calm applause. As Scot said, in his prompt way, the attention was a greater compliment than the applause; but Doris wondered a good deal at the composure of the house. " Kenneth," observed Mr. Bradford, for a few moments relaxing in his upright firmness, and turning towards his son, '^ that was a sleepy scene ; you'd better have burnt it in manuscript. No, thank you — why should I want a pro- 272 THE squire's legacy. gramme? Bless the lad! if you don't write to be understood, what's the use of writing at all?" " I hear remarks here and there," said Colonel Egerton, cheerfully, as he came in from the next box. " I hear them talk of latent powevj Ken, and poetic ardour^ and " " Other quotations from the dictionary," add- ed the old lawyer, calmly. " Kenneth," whispered Doris, touching his hand, "^please speak to me between the acts, or I shall forget you are here, and fancy it is you upon the stage." He turned with a smile, but at that moment the band ceased. The interest rose now with each scene, until the curtain fell the second time, to a music of applause which gladdened Scot's heart, and brought the old lawyer's shaggy eyebrows lower over his dim eyes. "This is a tribute to the actors," Kenneth said ; but the words were unsteady, and ceased abruptly. " I never was more surprised in my life !" cried Colonel Egerton, entering in his energetic unreserve, and bent, as before, on encourage- ment. THE squire's legaot* 273 ^'I'm not Burprised," coniessed Scot, in his cordial way. " Are you, Miss Egerton V* "Yes; but I'm not surprised that I'm sur- prised. I expected to be." Colonel Egerton thought no longer of picking up stray remarks to make Doris rejoice. Ther& was no further doubt about the general appro- bation ; and it would not have been very hard to hea; opinions which we uttered now with SO much confidence. " Graceful, yet so vigorous 1" " Has genuine dramatic strength, and — ^what is rarer still — dramatic spirit." " Ardour of passion 1" « Intensity of sympathy 1" " True to nature, equally in its humour, its pathos, and its passion." Such words passed to and fro now, uncontra- dicted, to the music of the band. Presently the curtain "rose once more, and from that time the whispers ceased, and the wonder grew with every line of the glowing, ardent verse. And now that utter silence of strong and deep emotion held all hearts, and Kenneth's ideal of pure success was realized. He sat very still beside Doris, Mr. Bradford near, his VOL. in. T 274 . THE BQUIRS'S LEGACY. arms tight in their old attitude, and his eyes fixed only on the stage ; while Miss Joan sat in an nn-* usual nervousness, glancing from Kenneth to his father. And through all the theatre the wonder grew and grew, as this pictured life drew to its close. So that, when the last word was uttered, it was with one simultaneous impulse that the house rose, swayed by intense sympathy with those grand creations of the poet, which the actor's art had made so real. There had been outbursts of enthusiasm now and then through all the later scenes, but they were nothing com- pared with the acclamations which now rushed £rom the crowd as from one man ; there had been flowers showered on the stage before, but nothing like those rapidly flying trophies. Doris too had risen from her seat, and Ken- neth's flowers went whirling through the air, a willing tribute to one who had so well inters preted Kenneth's thoughts. Then she remem- bered the flower in her hair, and took that out and threw it too — ^but Kenneth's snowdrops were near her heart, and one of Scot's white roses waited for her at home. The actors passed before the lowered cur^ tain, but the shouts continued, wd the call now THE squire's legacy. 275 "was for the author, while the people rose to stand upon their seats. "They want yon on the stage," said Scot, leaning forward to speak to Kenneth. Kenneth looked down npon the stage, and then round upon the house ; and it only seemed to Doris that he hesitated whether to go or not. The calls were growing louder and louder for the author — ^while among them rang hearty and involuntary " Bravoes I" — ^when the man- ager of the theatre entered the author's box. " They are calling you before the curtain, Mr. Bradford," he said ; " and they mean it. Will you come? If not," he continued, with quiet tact, " they will be satisfied with your acknow- ledgment from here." "That will be best, Kenneth," whispered Scot; and Kenneth, moving forward, bowed very gravely. " Oh, Kenneth, do you see how they smile and wave their handkerchiefs t" It was all Doris could say as, in her pride, she kept beside him, unconscious that the others had moved back, and were clustered behind them. t2 276 THE SQUIRE S LEQAOT. " A splendid success," the manager was say- ing now to Scot and Colonel Egerton ; "almost unprecedented I There is not, as one may say, an order in the house, and yet witness this en- thusiasm. Mr. Bradford must feel to-night the consciousness of a great victory* The actors have risen to his inspiration, and he has already shown himself a thorough master of his art." Scarcely had Kenneth stepped back, when the calls were repeated, even more loudly than before. The excitement had been increased by the sight of the young poet, and the applause seemed literally to sway the building* *' They want you again," cried Colonel Egerton, his face a perfect picture of delight and pride. Miss Joan stood against the side of the box, trembling in her proud excitement. But Mr. Bradford's head was quite turned away now, and the muscles strained in his folded arms. ** Once more," said Scof, his kind face very grave and anxious ; as Kenneth stood at Doris's side, his eyes cleaving to her face. " Go once more, Bradford, or they will clamour on for ever. You — Surely rum you feel the * divine intoxication.' " THE squire's legacy. 277 Slowly Kenneth went forward, but, instead of glancing round upon the waiting facea, he look*- ed down upon the curtained stage. At that moment Doctor Boyd, 'whose eyes had sought his friend's box, with a pleasant glance of congratulation, hurriedly apologised to the ladies near him, and passed from his seat; making a way for himself through the crowd, while those opinions which might bave made Kenneth bo proud were uttered frankly around him. But other whispers, too, now passed from mouth to mouth in the groups. '' What kept him ?" " Is it true that he is not sober ?" " What a public exposure I" "Look at him!" « Pity I" " Our young successful dramatist has taken too much wine." "One would have fancied that such a full draught of success had been sufficient,— eh I" Through the shouts and roai* of applause there forced its way at last one long impres- sive " Hush !" Then the waving handkerchiefe grew gradu-r ally quiet — and the physician was still far from the author's box. 2 78 THE squire's legacy. " Dear Kenneth," whispered Doris, standing near hitn, '^ smile, and acknowledge this great welcome and approval." " Where ?" he asked, looking vaguely round the brilliant scene for a moment — looking past the hundreds of faces, pleased and curious ; and then again fixing his eyes upon the stage — " Doris," he said — and his hand fell on hers just then with a grip which hurt her — " tell them to drop the curtain." " Dear Kenneth," she said, most softly, " the play is over, and they are telling you how much, they like it." "Tell them," continued Kenneth,- still with the dazed look down upon the drop-scene, "that those are not my words that they are saying now — those are not my thoughts. I — oh, these hurried lines are horriUe to hear 1 Tell them to drop the curtain, in — ^in pity to me !" ** Oh, Kenneth," cried Doris, in a very passion of fear, as she followed that gaze of his upon tte silent st^ge, " come away — my love 1" "I will come," he whispered, below his breath, " when they go. They should not be there so long. These words are not ^" ** It was all exquisite," breathed Doris, very softly. « Come, Kenneth !" THE squire's legacy. 279 "There" — ^with a long quivering breath — "that — ^is well. The curtain can fall — now — at last." Then he moved his eyes to meet the cluster* ing faces, and with a smile he bowed. Doris was standing a Kttle way behind him, waiting for him to turn ; but, when he did so — his step uncertain and his hands lifted to feel his way-in an instant everything faded from her sight except his figure, and, in a sudden, overpowering fear, she clung to him. It was at this moment that the physician entered the box, too gravely in earnest to utter any apology. In that one first glance he saw a picture which was to haunt him many and many a day — the young man with that strange smUe upon his lips, as his eyes lost their hold upon Doris's face, and wandered £ir beyond the surrounding walls ; and the girl clinging to him in her pretty dress, her face so sad and wistfiil in its agony, but so beautiful in its great ten- derness. He had seen it only for an instant, when he had his fingers round Kenneth's wrist, and had signed back the friends who were gathering with hearty compliments. 280 THE squire's legacy. It was just as Mr. Bradford grasped his son's hand, moved as the old man never had been moved before, that the physician felt a strong convulsive shock run through a standing figure, and knew what it meant. Prompt and skilfal he was, and readj for the great need which met him-^but no thought, or skill, or tender^ ness could avail. When, with gentle hands — and treading softly through that hushed crowd, waiting with bowed heads — ^they bore the young poet from the scene of his one triumph, he had still that dreamy smile upon his white, dead face. 28; CHAPTER XVII. THAT Summer was wearing to its close, when one day, among the Eingswood hills, there gathered such a storm as had not been witnessed there for manj years, Margaret Chamberlain, dazzled by the yellow glare, had carried her book to the window, but could not see to read it ev^n there; for the storm-cloud came quickly on, until it stood like an impenetrable wall before her. Presently it was pierced by a flash of vivid lightning ; the silence, which had been growing heavier and more oppressive^ all the morning, was broken by a peal of thunder rolling slowly from the hills ; and with a rush the rain came down, sweeping through the air like smoke, while the shrubs bent and swayed beneath it, and the clouds whirled above. Margaret sat very still, in the stillness of an 282 THE squire's legacy. intense suspense. Through an open doorway at the farther end of the long room, she could see Steven standing befor^e one window in a smaller inner room ; and though she seemed to watch the storm, she was acutely aware of his every movement. His face was turned from her as he stood at the low window, but there was a quietness in his whole attitude which filled her heart with gratitude ; though every now and then, as he turned and restlessly paced the room, the old fear, which had become so habitual to her, made her heart beat rapidly. But when he had once or twice trodden the little room from end to end, he would return to his quiet watching of the storm, standing mo- tionless before the window, and then Margaret would draw one long breath of heartfelt relief, and feel — ^as perhaps she had never felt before —more than a momentary lifting of that weight of fear under which her life had been passed. Minute by minute the storm increased, but still Steven, after those brief fits of restlessness, would stand and look out upon it. The rain fell in torrents, the lightning flashed across the gloom, vividly and intensely blue, and the thunder pealed above the house, clap after dap. THE squire's legacy. 283 in rapid succession. Then, for a few minutes, there would be a pause, and Margaret would listen to the ivj clattering against the wall. Then once more the slender flame would cut the gloom, and the long, rolling peal rise from its distant muttering into a near clash of terrible menace. Once or twice Margaret nervously rose, as if she would have joined her brother, in her dread for him ; but a second thought always stayed her. Her presence might disturb him, and bring back all the old uneasiness which seemed to be stayed to-day, even in spite of this Won- derful turmoil without. And was it not happi- ness enough for her, just now, to know that he made no effort to leave th^ house ; though she could not see his face, to judge how little or how much the tempest might have disturbed him? It had raged for more than an hour, and the hailstones clashed almost like bullets against the glass, when Steven's old servant-man came softly into the room, looking anxiously about him. Margaret, so well understanding the fear which was her own too, pointed to the inner room. The old man's eyes were dim, bat he 284 THE squire's legacy. could distinguish the standing figure^ and he drew a long breath of relief, ^^ He has not attempted to go then, ma'am V he whispered, approaching Miss Chamberlain. «No." « Thank God 1" " And yet the storm is so terrible," said Mar- garet, wondering, while both her fear and her great hope were visible upon her face. Just as the old man left the room again, there was a ring at the outer bell. Margaret started nervously at the sound, then smiled at herself as she wondered who could have ven- tured out in such weather — ^above all, who could have cared to venture here, where so few strangers ever came. Just as she questioned this, Scot Monkton came in to her, straight from the storm. She met him with undisguised pleasure, not only the pleasure she felt in seeing him, but — ^though she was not aware of it — a subtle consciousness that she had a pleasure to give him. " How good it is to see you, Scot," she said, as she put her hand into his. '^ From where have you come ?" *^ From home, Margaret, of course — from the THE sqihre's legaot. 285 Black Birches. I could not rest in the storm nntil I knew that yon were not suffering the old anxiety and fear, Tfell me." For all answer Margaret pointed with her hand to her brother's silent figure, standing far offy with his face turned to the storm. *^ He has been quiet all through it," she said, in a whisper; "only walking now and then — still in that room ; quiet even through such a tempest as this* Oh I Scot, have I not cause for gratitude to-day?" " And had he been so I" asked Scot, speaking as quietly as she had done, "ever since my trial!" " Yes ; but he has never before been tested as to-day. My fear has been so great — so great, Scot — ^that I did not deserve this gladness." "Then that day did him good instead of harm t" " Yes." "That is good to hear, indeed. Whenever that day rises in my memory — as it does so often — I will try to recall only that one happy result." It was the mention of this day "which made her look at him with such anxious scrutiny, and 286 THE squire's legacy. they were its traces 'which she fancied that she saw upon his &ce. '^ If he keep calm through such a storm as this/' Scot said, breaking purposely this thought, which he could guess, '' we need not fear again, Margaret. Tou lie so sheltered here, though, that you can scarcely realize the ruin, the storm is working elsewhere. Across the rising ground there, the river sweeps through the valley with a deafening roar. It has carried away the wooden bridge below the Green Pits, and rushes like a torrent under the stone bridge in the park. "Yet you came through it all, to help me once more," said Margaret, below her breath. ^ I had a far more selfish reason. I came to set my own anxiety at rest about you both — not to mention that I also came to tell you how lucky it is that we have no com this year, as it would have been totally destroyed; and that we have not repaired the house, for some of our windows are already shattered by the hail- stones. It is like standing under fire now at the Black Birches. "But, Scot," asked Margaret, in astonish- ment, " why are you not at Kingswood ?" THE squire's legacy. 287 "Because/' he answered, very quietly, "my little fellow would not have felt it to be home ; and, as we only came for one day, it does not signify. Elizabeth had the house thoroughly comfortable, and as it used to be ; and Liath's pleasure at seeing us was worth something. To-morrow Willy is going to make the ac- quaintance of his tenants, and so we must needs be at Eingswood then. He is to give a dinner to them, and they are to be introduced to their Squire. Poor little lad 1 I wish it were over." "But you " "For his sake, I mean," Scot added, quietly. " He is so shy and nervous — ^so much more so than any healthy child of hiis age ought to be." "But I am sure you will spare him every- thing to-morrow, save the pleasure of the day." " Week after week we have delayed coming iome for this — ^but now it must be done. You see we have only brought him the day bdbre he need to be there, and we shall take him away again the day after." " Where ?" asked Margaret, feeling how real and earnest was Scot's anxiety over this child.^' "We are to try Ventnor, but I daresay we shall go on to Madeira. Perhaps it will be 288 THE squire's legagt. Summer-time of next year before we return, Margaret." "I have ^" She had been going to tell him how she had missed him, but she called back the words, for she would show nothing to-day in any light save a pleasant one» ^*I am so glad, Scot, that now I may thank you — hopefully, as I have never yet done — for your long, untiring help, and care of Steven ; yet I cannot even now thank you as I ought. See- ing him as he is to-day makes my gratitude al- most choke me." " How about yourself, Margaret?" asked Soot, gently turning aside her thanks. ''Are yott lonely, now that your neighbours seem so scat* teredf" '' Loneliness is almost second nature to me," said Margaret, smiling, '' and I have still one or two friends near." " The Vicar and his wife pre-eminently." " The Leveys are at Osborne House." " So I suppose," said Scot," quite understand- ing why she only mentioned their being there ; *' but I'm sure Violet's marriage, and the prepa- ration for her voyage to India, quite take up her time." THK squire's legacy. 289 ^^Yes," said Margaret, smiling, *^and Rose and her brother haVe never cared to call since — ^they knew our secret. But," she added, plea- santly, " why talk of them? Tell me, how is Miss Windish ?" ^' She it was who, most of all of us, wished to stay this time at the Black Birches," said Scot, laughing; '^yet she groans over the appearance of the farm, and says of course Liath has grown childish, or he would not cling to iU I believe he will never leave it." " Until it is pulled down," said Margaret, with a smile. " Or falls." ''Mr. Bradford will be at Eingswood to- morrow, I suppose?" resumed Margaret, pre- sently. *' Yes, he is always prompt and kind to come where he is needed." '' He has been very good to me," she said, her eyes brightening as she recalled the old man's kindness ever since that day when he had found out her secret, and she had promised to tell it for Scot's sake — a kindness which had never fafled through his own sorrow. '^ It is very sad to see him so changed now ; VOL. m. u 290 TBK squire's legacy. yet he is, as he says himself in harneBS still. Shrewd and skilfol as ever, though somehow his deepest thoughts seem always resting undis- turbed — ^with Kenneth." **Mr. Bradford has been more than once to Florence to join the Egertons, has he not ?" *^ Yes, he goes backwards and forwards," re- plied Scot, with an added quietness in his Toice. ** Those visits, and his work, keep him as he is." ^'He thinks of Doris Egerton quite as. a daughter." « Yes." " We have lost her for a long, long time, I fear,'* said Margaret ; " and you would hardly believe, Scot, how Steven misses her. . But he does so enjoy hearing her letters. She writes to me very often now — it is only like her to do that — and such pretty, kind letters, remember- ing everything about us ; remembering t«, as it is plain to see, even in what she tells of herself and of what she sees and hears. I — I cannot describe what I mean," said Margaret, thought- fully J " and so you will not understand." "I understand," Scot answered, with great THE SQXTIRE'S LEGAOT. 291 quietnesfl, and added no other word of Doris. He waited beside Margaret until the storm had lulled a little ; then he went in to Steven, and roused him with a gentle touch upon his shoulder. In a nervous tremor, Margaret stood to watch the result of this ; and when Steven turned and greeted Scot with his quiet dreamj smile, she covered her face a mom^xt, in the very intensity of her joy. For an hour Scot lingered with them, and Margaret rang for lunch, and made the rooms look homelike, and laughed and chatted as Scot had never seen her do before ; and a lump rose in his throat as he watched her, and wondered would her life never hold a gladness for herself alone, and a joy which touched her own life, apart from its sacrifice for others. When at last they had separated, and he had looked back from the gate to see the brother and sister standing side by . side in the heavy porch, with a new look of peace upon their faces, he felt as if a doud had been lifted from hisownUfe too. But there was no one to see this, and to wonder (as he had done of Margaret) if his life would ever hold a gladness which was for u2 S92 THE squire's IiEGACY. himself alone, and a joy which touched his own life, apart from its sacrifice for others. " Good gracious I" It was Miss Michal's only exclamation when Scot came in, and Willy clung to him, regardless of dripping garments. " All right, Aunt Midial ; I agree with you heartily about * Good gracious V — ^but then everything is good to-day." "You think so, do you?" questioned Misft Michal, with a mournful scepticism. " Well, I must say I don't. Who could, wten they had been very nearly killed f Oh, it's all very well to look concerned now it's too late/' she added, growing visibly more cheerful when she saw Scot's swift glance of anxiety ; " but you ought to have stayed at home to prevent it." "Could I have prevented it I What was it r "The— the — - Oh! Scot, it sounds so ominous, my dear, that I don't like to tell." " But you know it won't sound ominous to me," the young man answered, with no further fear. " The — ^the three black birches on the height THE SQIHRE'S LEGACT. 293 have all — fallen in the storm. Liath Bays they have snapped right off." ** But you weren't under them, Aunt Michal ; «nd^ even if I had stayed at home, they might have feJlen just the same." " Really, Scot," rejoined the little lady, par thetically, *^you never "will realise the full horror of some things. This is an awful spot I" ^^ Shall we go up to Eingswood at once, then f questioned Scot, with a laugh in his «yes. "It is ready, you know ; you have only to say the word, Aunt Michal." " Kingswood 1" — she repeated the word with a faint shriek, and clasped her hands — ^^ Kings- wood ! That shows how little you hear when you're out by yourself. It's awful to be left here to hear it. Scot" (Miss Michal's round eyes grew rounder, and her limp little features were all pulled into an expression of great horror), "what do you think happened in the storm? Liath told me. A — ^a — a cloud burst." '* So I should have foncied," said Scot, coolly. "" Were you frightened, Aunt Michal t" "And," she continued, dropping her voice stil] lower, with a glance at the child, but speaking in a peculiar whisper, which travelled 294 THE squire's legacy. farther even than a raised tone, ^' it was over Kingawood— just over." ^^ And did it do any harm f ^^Hamr echoed Miss Midial, giievoxisly hurt by this view of the subject. " Of oourse^ not. What harm could it do to Eingswood?' But — of oouise it means something." ^ Oh, I see. Aunt MiehaL Then suppose we take it to mean confusion to all clouds which try to settle over Eingswood — eh, Willy t Tour home should be free enough from clouds^ • dear, if I could have my wilL" 295 CHAPTER XVm. IT was the early Summer of the following year, and the chfld, for whom so much had been done, and so many efforts made, still faded slowly day by day. Without a struggle or regret, even without much pain, he seemed gently and gradually halting in his little race ; always "Vf eary, though, in his babyish bravery, he fought against this feeling as idleness or sleepiness. Often when the little head had dropped upon Scot's shoulder, and the tears fell slowly and silently, the reason which Scot won was— " Because Tm 'such a trouble, and can't get wakefal." " My darling," Scot would whisper, very tenderly, in his sad knowledge of what this meant, " we are never happier than when you are asleep." 296 THE SQUnufS LEGACY. But yet he would so often look in vain for the wistful eyes to close, and the frail hands to slacken in their clinging hold about him I '^I hope," mused Miss Michal, in an awed whisper, as she sat and looked wonderingly into the small, white &ce, ^^ I hope there are but few such child-liyes spent among us." This chill, dull evening, Miss Michal and- the <$hild sat alone at the closed window, where he leaned against the glass, gazing out dreamily upon the sea, which (from his first look upon it) had been one long wonder to him. The sky met it to-day in one universal grey, and only the boats, like dark specks dotting it here and there, told which was water. A tearful, heavy-hearted evening, thought Miss Michal to herself as she listened to the mournful, languid sweep of the waves upon the shore, and wished Scot would come back. Far off a band was playing, and Miss Michal noticed how still the child was until it ceased. ^' Did you like it, dear?" she asked then, only for the purpose of breaking his silence." ^' It's beautiful I" he answered, looking seri* ously up into her face. *^ Are those what the angels play?" THE SQIHRE'S LEGACY, 297 ^' I think, my dear," said Miss Michal, making the sudden discovery that her thoughts upon this subject were in some confusion— for with the old fancy of angels with their harps, struggled newer and more restive notions of their performing upon pianos ; while among all these strayed a suggestive recollection of Jephtha's daughter beating a tambourine — •* I « think, my dear, that we had better not make up our minds about that: because we shall know it all in time." " In a soon time." But Miss Michal, looking on the little fading face, and finding she could not answer this question steadily, would not answer it at all, and felt greatly relieved that Scot -chanced just then to return to the room. " It was you the gentleman wanted after all, Aunt Michal." " Me 1" exclaimed Miss Michal, starting. " I thought you'd a letter by him from Mr. Brad- ford, and I thought the gentleman was Arthur Egertori's partner. Why do you say he wants me I" ** Because he said so. Aunt Michal," Scot answered, cheerfully, as he opened the door for 298 THE squire's legaot. her. Don't be neryous : I just saw enough to know he is verj pleasant; certainly he need not alarm you." ^^ I shan't stay/' observed Miss Michal, as she passed him ; and the words made him smile for a moment as he went np to the window to Willy, and took his old seat beside him. " How they run ! Will they soon be tired, d'you think!" With Scot's arm about him, the child stood looking down at the children racing on the sands, pausing in groups to laugh and chatter, then flying on again- towards the sea — ^looking wistfully and wonderingly, but with no shade of jealousy or discontent. ** Yes, they will be very tired to-night," Scot answered, promptly, his dasp tightening round his weary child. "But not in Heaven?" " Not in Heaven ; no one is tired there, my darling." « Won't that be nice !" But for all answer Scot bent his face to touch r the pale one lifted so earnestly to his, with that faint smile upon it which nothing ever brought now save his own words. Under the window . THE squire's LEGACY. 299 a yacht rocked slowly on the water, saillees, spiritless ; and on the beach the waves broke with a hollow, dreary plash. The band had come nearer now, and while Scot listened — with a keen ear for all the instruments, thongh he fitted broken, meaningless words to the familiar air — ^the child was so silent that Scot fancied he had fallen asleep. The tune was changed, and presently the band put up their instruments, and passed on. Slowly, in the grey sky above the sea, there opened a little cleft ; and, from the sun behind, there fell a ray direct to the sea, making the waters sparkle where it touched them. Still sitting motionless, not to disturb his little lad, Scot watched it, only because it was the bright- est spot in the grey scene ; and, as he looked, the soft thin fingers of the child were lifted caressingly to his lips. ^Mustn't it be beautiful where that comes Iromr " Not asleep t" questioned Scot, steadying his tones, and struggling to make them cheery, as they used to be when the child had first learned to love them. "No, I'm not asleep, thenk you. Are the 300 THE squire's legacy. . other children looking at it, and saying it's pretty ?" " Of course they are," said Scot, glandng hur- riedly from the active children whom his child was watching. " Do they want to go to Heaven t" " See 1 There is a light already on the rock far out at sea." No answer, and Scot lifted the thoughtful face with his hands. "Willy, dear, what is it?" ** I want," said the child, simply, *' to write my will, please. Don't you remember I You said, if I was rich — and I'm rich, aren't I?" " Rich 1" — ^Scot echoed the word sadly. Could the child be ncA, and yet languish thus into his little grave, where riches were of no avail t " I haven't written any copy for such a long time, have I ?" asked Willy, guessing nothing of these thoughts. "I know I forget some letters; but you'll help me — ^you'll help my hand, won't you?" — with the old caressing touch. " Never mind it quite yet," said Scot, huskily ; " you shall write it some other day." THE squire's LEGAGT. 301 " But, please, I'd better now, if I might." "Some day," said Scot, tenderly, "we will write them together ; because, you see, when you write your will, I must write mine, too." " I want to give everything to you." "And I want to give everything to you, dear^ so let us both wait." "Will it be soon enough?" "Quite soon enough." "Thenk you," said the child, in his utter confidence, and lay so still and quiet then, that even when he fell asleep at last, Scot did not know it, until he had spoken to him, and miissed the ready answer* Then Scot laid him with tenderness upon the couch, and softly left the room. There was no sign upon his face of that sad look he had given the sleeping child, when he entered the room in which Miss Michal stood, gazing im- movably at a stalwart figure near her. " And so," said Scot, laying his hand upon the shoulder of this visitor, and speaking with a laughing cordiality, " this is Arthur Egerton's partner. Aunt Michal ?" " Scot," murmured Miss Michal, in a whisper of mingled pride and awe, " it's Luke." 302 THB squire's legaoy. "I shoald think it was, indeed/' rejoined Scot, shaking Luke Hawthorne's hand for at- least the fifth time since he had so unexpected- ly found him alone in this room. '' Who else could give us such a pleasant surprise, Aunt Michal ?" "No — one else," she answered plaintively, and slipped her hand back within her husband's ?arm, from which position she had rescued it hastily on Scot's approach. ^ Luke himselj^ indeed," said Mr. Hawthorne, presently, when, with a certain blufi^ frank fondness, he had given his little wife an en- couraging caress, '^ come back for good and all, Michal ; a more patient fellow, I trust." " You were not very patient, Luke," the little lady answered, with a pensive air. "I've thought it over, and I know you were not very patient; but" (with a lively change of tone), ''I've thought over other things, too, and I know I might have taken one or two things difierently. I know how it was, Luke. I'd lived so easily, and so — so narrowly upon my cousin's generosity at Kingswood, that I'd never thought of marriage except as a pleaaant change to give me the devotion of a husband THE squire's legacy. 303 all to myself-— and I'd plenty of time for the thought, too, for I was quite five-and-thirty vrhen you proposed for me, as I believe you knew quite well — ^and I'd never thought of having my own share to do in making married life cheerAil as well as endurable, I'd never thought of how there would come trials for us, as well as others. But I've thought more of it now, Luke. I've had leisure lately; and — I've Been more. But, Luke, my dear, let's keep to- gether just at present. I — ^I think I should like Scot to see that happiness doesn't make me any worse." " Or, rather," said Scot quietly, ** she has a little charge upstairs, whom she is too kind to leave just yet, Hawthorne, because he would miss her sadly." Of course, after that, Mr. Hawthorne had to hear the history of the child, and various other facts, to which he listened with much thought upon his healthy, sunburnt face, stroking the while his wife's silvery hair, with one broad hand which was burnt almost jcopper-coloured. ^'I see," he -said then, looking down with real pride upon her. *'Then, if Monkton has no objection, I will wait here too. This house is *• 304 THE squire's legacy. • too grand for me just yet, because I haven't thrown off the habits of mj mountain shed, but there's a square sort of hotel close by, which will do famously. " I declare," he added, with the very warmest accent of enjoyment, ^' it's the very best arrangement possible, and here's the finest sea I ever looked over— quite." There was a lagging sense of honesty op- pressing the ^^ quite," which made Scot smile, but he understood the bluff generosity which prompted this arrangement, and though he did all he could to persuade Afr. Hawthorne to join them, he remembered him too well to believe he would change his mind. ^'I shall be at large, you see," Luke Haw- thorne said, waving his hand towards unlimited space, " and yet I shall feel amongst you again. And, if it's all the same to you, my dear," he added, with a frank kiss upon his wife's Ups, ^' I would rather not lose sight of you again just yet." " Eg^rton himself is in England, too. Monk- ton," he added presently, when their plans had been discussed. '' Ah, I see you are glad of that. I suppose his &ther and sister will be delighted. He, too, has left America for good^ THE squire's legacy. 305 bnt he is a rich man. The mine we worked was his, jou know; for he had bought the land. Michal" — with a rueful expression, which yet coold no4 hide the merriment in his eyes — '^ it's a pity his partner could not get rich too, isn't it ? It's rather too bad to ask you to comeback to tiie old nncertainty, and occasional shortness of caria — eh, my dear ?" ^^ If you say that again, Lnkey" asserted Miss Michal, with meek energy, '^ you'll make me miserable for life. I am sure you really had excuse to be cross with me — as you certainly were— because I bought unnecessary things when money ran short, and screwed you up in other ways ; but I've a grain more sense now, as you'll see. Poverty doesn't — doesn't seem quite the same sort of affliction to me, Luke. I've learnt that — ^that a peison can be cheerfbl, and compassionate, and — and even generous, even if poor. As Tve learnt tliis, Luke," she added, turning to face him, with her hands ib hm, ^^Tm very glad yon are poor." ^ Bat SA youf ve learnt that, my dear — as you say," retuamed her husband, his ^os full of mirth, as be shook both herhamds energetically. VOL. m. X 306 ' THE squire's legacy. " I think youVe learnt all you need. And so," he said, his cheery voice raised alarmingly, « we'll be rich." " No, we won't, Luke," amended Miss Michal, with unusual liveliness, ^* because we can't." " Yes, we will," he answered, stoutly, " be- cause we must. Not rich, my dear !" he repeated, with a laugh. " Why, here I am with my wife back again, among my old friends, and you don't call me rich! Here I am with money enough to buy you any house in England, and you say I'm not rich I" *^ You're joking," said Miss Michal, briskly. *' Not a bit of it, my dear. When I told you I was going to Mexico, as you remember, and you declined to come, and told me you had quite decided to go back to Eingswood alone, though we were three thousand miles away; of course I thought you were joking. Even when I found you gone, I thought it was only a ruse to frighten me out of my decision. When I dis- covered the truth of it, I — ^but never mind all that ; we had tried each other's patience, and proved each other wanting. Let us never say a word of that again. I went to Mexico, and joined Captain Egerton. The mine was his, as THE squire's legacy. 307 I itjaid ; but I worked my way into equal part- nership ; and — we are both come home again as rich as Job. Now, my dear, what do you think of that!" What Miss Michal thought of that was ap- parently not to be known for an indefinite period ; for the moment she had become fully aware of her husband's meaning, and his riches were an incontestable fact in her mind, she lifted up her voice and wept. x2 308 CHAPTER XIX. THE sea was calm and bright next mornings as if other waters had taken the place of those which ebbed and flowed so heavily last night. The fishing-boats stood from the coast with sails spread, like a fleet in miniature. Young oarsmen, clad in white and crimson^ pushed their boats down the pebbly beach to lusty shouts, and launched them gaily, with flags waving from the prows. The children frolicked with the tiny waves, which broke upon the beach in sweet, fresh music, like the wind in Summer beeches. The sparkle from each boat gleamed white as silver; the sails dipped white and spotless in the breeze ; the waves, like tiny cataracts, fell and kissed the shore in creamy whiteness ; the pebbly bank shone white as ruffled snow; the plouds that ?«» THE squire's legacy. 309 sped acrosB the blae were like the embodied sunlight ; and &r j off one pore aail patised against the blue — all whitOi as if the world were still in childhood. '^ Isn't it nioe upon the sea ?" asked Willy, dreamily, as he stood looking out upon this fair morning scene. ** Should you like to go, my darling f " Scot spoke eagerly, because it seemed so sadly impossible to teach the child that what fae wished for could be his; so impossible to win him from the touchrng humility which made him (so far from asking anything for hims^ wistfoliy and earnestly grateful for the most trifling gift or care. "Please — when you oome. Will that little boat soon be in Heaven ? — that white one, a long way o£^ saiUi:^ into the sky V* *^ Listen I" cried Miss Michal, interposing hurriedly, with her finger raised ; " listen, Willy 1 There's the band. Now you will be happy. I like it best staying there, a little way off — doBit you, dear ?'* ** Yes, thenk you," Willy answered, with his rare smile, grasping the window as he stood within Scot's arm, and guessing nothing, of 310 THE 9(}CIBSrS UZI&ACr. ooone, of how the buid played eBpedaiBj Cor fann, ID tliiB ^ot irlndi Soot luid cfaoseo. ^Fm mgladr The band fdayed <Mi and <mi, and ilie little mn8ic4oTiDg lad stood Kiitfaiing with a real hi^pineaB upon hia bucei whiles faejrondy the healthy difldrai, who knew no wearineeB like this, lan out to diaae the tiny wares^ whidi kngfaed too, as they lan bac^ into tiieir aafe << Aien^t thoae cfaildien meny t" Iveathed the difldy sofily. ''Do they always play and ran and lan^ V *^ Not always/* answered Soot» as he da^ed his weaiy diild doser. ''If they did, they would be very tired, dear." "I thought so; but yoansed to say it was right — and when I played with yon I liked it. I wasn't so tired thm. Yon nsed to get tired first, and wouldn't rest less I did. D" yon rememb^y " They were grand games T* interposed Soot^ dieerfiilly, thoogh his eyes saddened as he mnsed how few weds of real diildhood his boy had known. "And," said Willy, turning from his hold THE SQUIRE'a LEGACY. 311 upon the window to put his gentle arms about Scot's neck, "you used to lose all our races, didn't you 1 — 'cept when I was on your back ; and then " — with a gentle little laugh — *' you'n me always beat Monarch — didn't we ? But " — thoughtfully — " I never played before. Father said he was grown up, and he didn't laugh never — ^nor me. But he held me like you do ; and when he didn't talk I felt him, and it was nice. If I could only find father " *' "Willy, my darling," Scot whispered, laying the little white cheek against his own, because he could not bear the piteous questioning of the puzzled eyes, "very soon you will feel your Father's arms about you, and they will never let you go again." " Never ?" « Never." ** Then why," said Willy, bending his solemn little face to Miss Michal, with a mute caress from one little wasted hand, " are you crying ? » Shan't we all be happy there I" "My dear," observed Miss Michal, briskly patting with one finger a spot of moisture which had fallen straight down upon her work, "this glare of sunshine dazzles my eyes until 312 THE squire's USGACT. they feel jnst exactly lus if there were tears ia them. They never were very strong ; bat snoh a day as this makes them quite — quite stupid, my dear ; that's all." The narrow boats shot through the water in a line, with their crimson ensigns flying. The diildren stood to watch them, clapping their hands and shouting in their glee, and the band played on. ^' D'you remember/' asked the child, breaking the long silence at last, as he looked up into Scot's face with wistful questioning, " when I found you in the train that day, and we had dinner — ^you'n me ?" ^^ Such a delicious dinner." " Yes — ^wasn't it ? And then — and then," he added, with a struggle to remember, *^you brought me home, didn't you? But &ther wasn't " '^ There was Liath," put in Miss Michal, with a gulp ; ^' don't you remember Liath ?" ** Oh ! I remember Liath, thenk you, quite — quite well. And it was so warm and kind, and you kissed me. Father didn't come, 'less it was so nice." The racing boats were resting now, rising and THE squire's legacy. 313 fidling daintily upon the waves. The ohildren sat in elnsters on the beach, resting too, and the band oeased ; but there was the tiny white sail still far awaj against the blue — pure as a child's spirit at Heaven's portaL ** When we go home," said Willy, ** I shall tell Liath how I've 'joyed myself. He said I should — ^'course he knew, didn't he ? Have you 'joyed yourself, auntie ?" Miss Michal made a huge effort to swallow ; but, as she could not, she nodded briskly. "And you I" he asked, laying one weak little hand upon Scot's face, so sad in spite of its great tenderness. ** I always 'joy myself when you do, my dear little fellow," Scot said, in his warm, loving tones. **Do you?" Willy questioned, thoughtfully. *' Then Tve liked it— thenk you. And we'll tell Liath. Are — Why," cried the child, starting up in a sudden shivering terror, " why — are you — going? Oh stay — oh hold me — please! Where's— father?" " Coming, my darling," Scot whispered, kiss- ing with an infinite tenderness the little raised, wan face. 314 THE squire's legacy. ^Is he? Tm so glad — only— don't loose me again, please. Its so nioe when — ^when you hold me — thenk you — so nioe. Now — father P « » m » » . « '< Scot I Oh, Scot r fidtered Miss Michal, each word uttered in a gasp, ** is he — is he ^ But, before Scot's gentle answer came, she knew the little one was safe now in his Father^s care. 315 CHAPTER XX. A SUMMER evening in Lucerne. The lake so calm and silvery — save where the green waters of the Renss went rushing from it — ^that the boats in the offing floated doubly, keel to keel ; and the three narrow bridges — stretching like huge centipedes from shore to shore— were mirrored so clearly that one could fancy even the quaint old pictures which adorned their walls were painted there beneath the water too. A wide, and rich, and tranquil scene it was, from the majestic summit of the Righi* Smaller lakes lay sparkling like gems, in their rich setting of mountains forest-tipped, and far away the glaciers of St. Gothard lifted their white faces to the sun. On the summit of the Righiagroup of tourists stood and wondered, but a little English party, who had discovered for them- selves a lovely spot below, were left to enjoy it 316 THE squire's legacy. undisturbed — a party of only three ; all rather silent now, while in this wondrous scene Heaven seemed so near, and all of earth so pure. Colonel Egerton, lying on his elbow in tranquil enjoyment, was idly pondering over the legend , of Mount Pilate — ^because the mountain rose be- fore him, rugged and mighty, with a cloud rest- ing on its haunted lake. Who could have been the man who first decided that in this lake upon the mountain top Pontius Pilate had flung him- self in his unbearable remorse ; and that when any human being touched it, his spirit roused it to that wild tempest whose danger was so well known ? And then, who was it who had been bold enough one day to swim across it, and thus break the superstition which for centuries had left it untouched and shunned ! Miss Joan, leaning back in her mountain ehair, with a closed book in her lap^ was follow- ing with her eyes a pilgrim troop descending from the coufessional of Our Lady, where they had left their gifbs and prayers. But Dons, sitting very still, with her head against a giant pine, and her eyes upon the snowy summits far away, only sat and listened dreamily to the mellow notes of the Alpine THE SQUIRE'S LEOAOT. 317 horns, as their distant signals rose from the bergs among the mountain pastures. And as they sat there, qnite silent in the un- utterable calm of such a scene^ the greeting of a familiar voice "mike the silence into an em- bodied sound, and at a touch brought the vague journeying thoughts into that small scene of home^ which yet, to each of us, is wider than the world. Guided by one of their foreign servants^ from the villa on the lake shore to which he had just arrived, Mr. Bradford had climbed to join- them, and after their most glad and cordial greeting, he sat down among them, as if they had only parted the day before. He had made several of these unannounced visits to them, during the fourteen months they had spent abroad, and now hb hardly could come quite unexpectedly wherever they might be. Unlocked for he could scarcely join them now, even on the Righi ; unwelcomed he could never join tibem anywhere. " And so," he said, Tooking keenly at Doris, whose face t(^ him so plainly of her real joy to see him, ^^you are eighty miles nearer home than when I saw you last." 318 THE SQXHRE'S LEGACY. " Are we T asked Colonel Egerton, answer- ing for his daughter. " We never thought of it, did we* Doris?" His voice was light and cheery, yet Doris (so keenndghted in her love) could read how this tone was assumed for her sake, and her thoughts grew fixed and steadfast just then, on a subject from which for long they had started and shrunk. Home! The old home which, crowded by memories, seemed to hold all her life, yet in which she had not really lived so long as she had lived among these foreign homes, which, however fair and tranqpil, she could leave without regrets The old home to which Kenneth used to come, to seek her, in his joy or his anxiety, flow different it would all be now ! She must listen in vain for Kenneth's quiet voice and step, and she must long in vain for his gentle care and guidance. Her thoughts touched no one else, in this regret which shadowed the picture of home ; the thought of Kenneth was so tender and so sad that, while it ever lay so near her heart, she saw no thought behind it. THE squire's legacy. 319 She had been selfish and thoughtless (so she mnsed to herself now, grasping the decision which she had shunned so long) she ought to have guessed that her father and aunt were hiding, for her sake, their longing to return. So Doris felt, as she listened to the talk of home ; but this feeling was injustice to herself, for neither Colonel Egerton nor Miss Bradford had any longing to return, until she should wish it. Unless she were to be happier at home, they, in their love for her, could never be so ; and she, of course, could not know how, in her love for them, she made this life as bright for them as could be the life at home. ** Don't you think, papa," she said, when Mr. Bradford had told them on what day he must be back in England, '* that we could go home then too f " Do you mean it, dear ? Do you wish it I" he asked, frankly betraying his'delight, " Of course she means it," put in the old lawyer, perhaps seeing how much better it would be just then to take the fact for granted. *^ I'm an old traveller, my dear, and, all my life long, a journey has been a trifle to me ; yet, thank God, the coming home is the pleasantest part to me— even now." 320 THE squire's legacy. *^ I am Bnre/' said Doris — and firom that mo- ment no doubt ever rose again in her mind — *^that I woold like to go home with yon." " Then we will go,'' exclaimed Mr. Bradford. *' ril take the jonmey in your leisurely style. And now, what questions have you to ask me ? I would not have you go honoe in ignorance of everything. Miss Joan's questions came first, and Doris sat and listened, wondering aU the time if it could be true that they were going home so soon — that in only a few days now she might be walk- ing in the old avenue at Eingswood, where '^ I suppose Eingswood is open and occupied now, Bradford. It will be like old times to see the fine old country seat in all its beauty again.' " No, they have not returned from Yentnor yet ; I told you they were there. Mr. Monkton has tried everything for that child. And as for Miss Windish, I should like you to see the one solitary letter she has erex written me. She wrote it on the night of her husband's return — I hope my tdegram made you laugh when I sent you that news ; it deserved to be borne by electricity, didn't it ?" THE squire's legacy. 321 ** It was gran^ news," said the Colonel, heartily. "You can scarcely guess how we rejoiced over it." " But her letter to me," continued the old lawyer, with a keen look into his fiiend's face, '^related to her husband's partner* He, too, has returned from Mexico, a rich man." *^ And you know him, I suppose ?" **I used to know him." No further questioning, and for a little time there hovered among the group that silence, of thought and wonder, which is bom upon the mountain peaks. Mr. Bradford, half lying on the grass, had rested his eyes upon the distant towers of the church at Stantz, while he saw more plainly still, just then, that English church where his son lay. But the memories of those sad partings, with which his life had been so filled, were calm and tender now to the old man upon whose working day the sunset light already rested. And so in this great calm the minutes glided by. The tourists left the Bighi Kulm, and halting at one of the little chalets scattered on the mountain side, merrily contested for draughts of warm new milk. The dazzling VOL. m. Y 322 THE squire's legacy. whiteness of the SDOwy mountain-tops tamed to purple, and the purple to deep rose tints. The floating sails upon the lake lay half in shade and half in sunshine, until the rays which touched each spire and pinnacle into a star, faded, as the stars fade at dawn. In the tender evening light, the chanting of a stray pilgrim sounded hushed and solemn, and while the sheep-bells tinkled in the pas- tures, a mellower and more distant chime sum- moned the villagers to prayer. "How strange," said Colonel Egerton, re- suming the conversation when the hush had been rudely disturbed by the shrill cry of a bird of prey above ; " was the discovery of that missing heir ; or, as Scot Monkton himself calls the child, the little Squire of Eingswood." " Strange and uncomfortable," assented Mr. Bradford, drily. '* My agency was thrown into the shade. Scot Monkton's prompt, unhesitat- ing kindness cut the Gordian knot, which no subtle handling (even of the law) could untie.'' ^*It was a cruel legacy to leave to one so honourable and staunch. I have not forgiven the old Squire, even yet." "Do you really think you haven't!" asked THE squire's legacy. 323 Miss Joan, with a smile; '' Remember he had the remorse to bear, and his son never had that. Besides, in his most troubled times, Scot has never fiEincied himself a martyr, making atonement for his father's faults. He just saw the course that was right ; and, in his fearless, manly way, he kept to it; with no idea, I firmly believe, of what a brave and difficult course it was." •* But we know," said Doris, gently. " Do we ?" questioned the lawyer, with his old sharpness. " I doubt it." " What's done, you know, Doris," put in her father, "we partly may compute, as Bobby Bums says ; but we know not what's resisted." " I've been mad with him many a time," said Mr. Bradford, presently ; " but, after all, 1 sup- pose we seldom understand these things for each other. A man's conscience is his safest jury, perhaps, in a question of right and wrong." **What about Stanley Monkton now? Do you know anything of him ?" " Nothing beyond the fact of his being back in Portugal, if not a Badder, certainly a ^ser man — on the subject of English legislation. Now you have asked after everybody at Kings- y2 324 THE squire's legacy. wood. Comely Place, Bichmond, and Gordoa Square, but you have all of you forgotten to en- quire for the Leveys. Ever since Captain and Mrs. Gresford went to India with the regiment, yoimg Levey and his sister have been abroad. They had lost nearly all the society of Osborne House, and therefore found it unbearable. The regiment gone, and you, and Monkton — what were they to do I What's that move for,' Tom ? We are to go, are we ? You shouldn't spring up in that ridiculous manner, in my presence — but then no man ever possesses any feeling until he has had the gout." "Doris, my dear," whispered Kenneth's father, as she dung to his arm on the mountaiu side, pretending she needed his support, ^^ are you sure you wish to return with me ? Much as I long to have you all at home, I would not urge it against your will." "Ever since I knew we were going," said Doris, in whispered earnestness, " I have beeu happier." 325 CHAPTER XXL A YOUNG Englishman, in a fashionable tour- ist suit, and with a not too brilliant expression on his aquiline countenance as he studied his guide-book, lounged in the doorway of the hotel, making up his mind what it would be the correct thing to see, during the three days which he had understood that it was right to give to Zurich. He bent over the pages in unwilKng study. There was an arsenal — fancy going to see an arsenal when a man came abroad for peace! There was a library — fancy travelling hundreds of miles away from London to see libraries ! Mr. Levey's thoughts, not too firmly clinging about the historical associations of Zurich, found it easier, after all, to lounge in the scene around him. They touched, for an instant, the artist on the water side, engrossed in his sketch of 326 THE squire's legacy. the donjon tower. Thej hovered, with just a feeble coriositj, among the pilgrimB, landing on their retom from a pious mission to Einsie- dehi. Thej followed, with taint interest, an open carriage, fall of pleasnreHseekers, who talked gaily, and rather loadlj, as thej passed the hoteL Then, when these were ont of sight, Bernard lighted a cigar, and attacked the guide-book again under that stimulant. What else was he ordered to see? Some spot where a fellow called Lavater was assassinated. Why on earth should English people go to see it? Weren't there plenty of spots in England where people had been murdered A diversion again. A travelling-carriage rolling up to the hotel door, and stopping with- in a few yards of Mr. Levey's inquiring eyes. Then the descent of a courier, hot and in^ portant. The close proximity of a busy and excited fellow-creature was never relished by Mr. Levey, and he sauntered apart with his cigar. But it was not to be supposed that he could concen- trate his interest, in its June languor, on a cluster of masculine students (taking their long pipes from their months to free a passage for THE squire's legacy. 327 their fatiguing laughter), "when perhaps, in the carriage behind him, there might be feminine students, who would value the advice and as- sistance of an English aristocrat who was au fait in travelling, and could tell them all the best things to see in Zurich. Pocketing his guide-book, and throwing aside his cigar, he strolled forward again, and watch- ed the party leave the carriage, one by one. A gentleman, tall, grey-haired, and soldierly ; an- other gentleman, elderly too, but with keen young eyes under the shaggy grey eyebrows ; a gentle, white-haired lady, in a mourning dress, and a fair-haired girl, in deeper mourning stiU. Bernard had known each one, but it was not until Doris alighted that he came forward, wel- coming them all to Zurich, as if it were a little private comer of his own property, and their visit to it was a delicate personal compliment to himself. It had never been the very easiest thing in the world to get rid of Mr. Levey after he had once attached himself. He had a general idea that it was a great addition to the enjoyment of anyone to share his society, and he had to- 328 THE SQXnRE*S LEGACY. day a very particular idea that it was a great addition to Doris's pleasure to have the com- panioDship of an experienced and snitably-at- tired tourist, who had money to do the thing handsomely, and who, being such an old ac- quaintance, had a hundred interests in common with her. **How tired she must be of the old fogies and the old maid ! Poor girl, I shall certainly consider it my duty to give her all my time while we are in Zurich.'* So he told his sister, when he joined her to tell of the arrival of Colonel Egerton's party ; and when Miss Levey, without the least change of expression, laid down her novel and listened. "You look excited," she remarked, chillily. *' What is there to excite you ?" "Oh, I'm glad to see — ^to see them all again, of course," replied Bernard, moving his fiu>e rom the range of his sister's straight, cold gaze ; and then, of course, you know I feel how glad they must have been to find me here." "Are they changed?" "Changed? I didn't notice. But now you mention it, I think they are. The old lawyer is improved a little ; he doesn't quite cut one's THE squire's legacy. 329 nose off every time he speaks ; he's unfeeling, though, still, for when I mentioned his son's name he made the iciest remark — and on quite another subject." "I daresay," rejoined Rose, superciliously. " What about the others?" *' The Colonel's just the same ; but Miss Brad- ford's hair seems whiter." " And Doris Egerton t" The tone was one of intense indifference^ bur- dened by mental fatigue. " I haven't decided yet. At first I thought she was immensely changed, and afterwards she seemed just the same. At any rate, if she is changed," added Mr. Levey, briskly, *' it is not for the worse." " Of course not," returned his sister, with a slow smile. "No girl of nineteen would be broken-hearted, or embittered, because — more than a year ago — she had lost a brother, how- ever dear." " A brother 1" echoed Bernard, turning again to face his sister. Rose's smile widened a little, much to his surprise, for it was but seldom now that she cared to exhibit her share of the dazzling white 330 THE squire's legacy. teeth in which the fomilj took such pride. ** You don't understand," she said, coldly. " But do you positively believe she only frets for Kenneth Bradford as she would have done for a brother?" " You couldn't put my meaning into words, if you tried for an hour/' she said, taking up her volume again. ^^ You had better leave those subtle distinctions to us women." " But if you mean what you seem to mean," resumed Bernard, anxiously, *^ it won't be too soon if I ask her ^" A laugh, harsh and unpleasant, interrupted him, " The truth of what / refer to, cannot affect you any way," Rose said. " If you are fond of mortifications, try it." "You must think I'm very fond of yoiir mortifications," rejoined Bernard, sulkily, *' for you give me plenty. I wish I knew what in the world is the matter with you, Hose. You seem to care for nothing." " At any rate," was the chill reply, " I care for myself and I want to rest until dinner- time." " We are going for a sail to-night ; it will be moonlight," said Mr. Levey, pausing before he THE squire's legacy. 331 left the room. " You will come, Rose V^ « No." " Not if Count Vehrens joins us ? I think he's smitten a little ; and you know you think sa too. Perhaps in the moonlight he might pro-- pose." *' That will do, Bernard," interposed his sister, rising tardily. " If Count Vehrens felt inclined to propose to^-any one, gaslight would be as agreeable to him as moonlight. Don't let your brotherly solicitude suffer for me. I have every intention of accepting Count Vehrens when he offers ; but — there is no hurrv." Left alone, Bose put down the volume which she had opened to hasten her brother's de» parture, and rose and paced the room, just as she had paced her dressing-room on the night she wrote that last letter to Scot Monkton. Long ago she had destroyed his answering letter, but its words — so pleasant, though so few — were remembered as distinctly as she remembered her own long-meditated sentences. Sometimes even now the shame of it all rose up and touch- ed her cheeks to fire ; but her mortification was in the defeat of h^r plans, and the disappoint- ment of that passion (or ambition) which she 332 THE squire's legacy. «till called love. True, it had been the strongest feeling which her nature had ever known ; but when, on its weak foundations, it tottered and fell, the selfish nature had closed above the gap, and left itself only a little narrower than before. It was but rarely that, as now, that taunting recollection faced her in the corridors of memory — ^rarely, because her life and Scot's were necessarily far apart during his wanderings— but when it did come, it was always with this fitinging sense of injury and resentment, which tinctured her life with bitterness, and could not yet hallow it by sorrow or regret. While she had listened to her brother, she had determined in her own mind not to betray to these home-returning friends any glimpse of disappointment ; but, on the contrary, to con- vince them how much she enjoyed this foreign tour. So when she took her place at the table ^Chote, the frigid indiflference to which her brother had grown accustomed, had deserted her, and the fragile little Suabian Count beside her grew dumb with astonishment at an added charm in a lady whom he had elected to admire. That an English girl of such a height, with €uch teeth and hair, and with twenty thousand THE squire's legacy, 333 pounds of her own, should be able to jest in two languages, and make herself smile so con- stantly, was a lesson to him. He must waste no more time. How she would adorn the hereditary Schloss — well, scarcely that, con^ sidering that it was at present mingling its ashes with its mother earth ; but how well she would suit his gorgeous Paris hotel I ^^ Yes, I felt bound to come," said Bose, as she and Doris went to prepare for the night-sail upon the lakew "Count Vehrens would have stayed with me if I had declined to go. Isn't it tiresome for me to have him so thoroughly devoted to me ? I'm sure my friends ut home will pity me when you tell them about it. Yet he is very rich, and has a theatre of his own in Paris, and he is of very high birth." " He is not of very high stature," said Doris, the corners of her mouth puckered a little, as she read the intention which Misis Levey fancied she had veiled so cleverly. " When I first saw him I thought he was a little boy in a dress-- coat. But of course that doesn't signify." " Of course not," assented Miss Levey, prompt- ly, "when he is so distinguished. I daresay people to whom you mention his name at home, 334 THE squire's leoagy. will know him — ^Mr. Monkton, for instance. Would you send me word if he does V" ^^ Yes," said Doris, in sudden quietness, ^* if Mr. Monkton mentions Count Vehrens^ I will 43end you word." ** Thanks, so much ; it's a promise remember. I'm sure he — ^Mr. Monkton, I mean — ^will be highly amused when you tell him of the Count's devotion to me. I really never saw anything like it before. Men so seldom now-a-days be- stow affection upon anyone. This is my room — I shall only be one minute." No one but Bernard Levey himself ever quite understood how it happened that he was at last left for a few minutes alone with Doris. In the boat she had sat at her father's side, and when — at Bernard's instigation — they landed at Bichterschwyl, she had linked her arm in Mr. Bradford's, and strolled with him. Tet Ber- nard's persistence, for all its frequent defeats, was to grasp its reward at last ; and he alone <30uld ever have explained the series of diplo- matic moves which he had found necessary for the result. He had brought her to a little natural terrace on the lake shore, where he had told her-^there THE squire's legacy. 335 was little fear of a mistake in his rash guess — that the view was magnificent ; and she stood looking upon it, every feeling harmonized to the fair, tranquil beauty of the scene. Above the summits of the Eastern hills, the moon rode unclouded; and across the lake sparkled a line of silvery light ; above the shore — with its wealth of vineyards, and groves, and orchards, and calm stretch of meadow and corn- fields, dotted with nestling cottages and snowy viUas— swelled the vine^jlad hills, behind which rose the mountains, whose majestic forests no moonlight could do more than touch. And further still, and higher, the Alps towered into the moonlit sky, with a faint changing flush upon their whiteness. " Is it not beautiful. Miss Egerton ?" She did not answer; and he was scarcely sur- prised. His eyes had not been upon the scene before him as he asked the question, for Doris, standing there so still, her hands locked before her, and that far-away thought in her face, was more beautiful in his eyes than that wonderful night-scene which had filled her heart with awe and reverence. But she would surely break her silence pre- 336 THE squire's legacy. sently, and so, though of course he had not too much time to spare, Bernard thought he would wait a few minutes. Softly and musically, now and then, came the rippling of oars in the water, as a boat would skim across the silver line, light and bright for a moment, then pass on into the darkness^ while the sound faded. Now and then the bay- ing of a house-dog reached them from the oppo^ site shore, and now and then the faint notes of a harp came from a cottage near. '*Miss Egerton," said Bernard, at last, his patience gone, ^^ I believe you forget that I am here." She turned her eyes at once, the long thought (so sweet even in its sadness) had fallen at his words, as a bird fiedls when wounded in its flight. " Yes, I had forgotten where we were," she said, gently. ^^ I wish you had not," complained Bernard^ with pathos ; " I could never forget that I was at your side." " I will not forget again," said Doris, taking one last look before she turned. Against the background of rich moonlit leaves. THE SQUntS'S JJEGkOY. 337 *with the shadowy pine forests oTerhanging her far above (while countless fragnuit flower-scents dung about her), she looked so pretty and so qalm, that Bernard forgot the old scene in the library at home, and took in his, the one hand she dropped beside her. ^^ Doris," he whispered — and for that instant even his placid voice was stirred — *Uet us never forget each other again; let us never part again. I love you more than I ever did ; and you know I always loved you better than anybody else — don't your '^ Mr. Levey," said Doris, looking into his face with simple, grave surprise, as she drew away her hand, ** I answered you this question a long time ago." " But since then " '^ Since then," she said, interrupting him, with a shiver, ^^ nothing has made me change my feeling for you; and I am sure that nothing ever wilL" ^^But it was because you were engaged that you refused me then," persisted Mr. Levey, in real and helpless astonishment at this sudden dissolving of the hope which he had placidly encouraged ever since Kenneth Bradford's VOL. m. z 338 THE SQumETs leoact* death; yoa said so — don't yon remember?^ ^1 remember everything^ said Doris, in her low, dear Toioe; ^and I never thongfat yon wonld speak to me of this again. I am veiy, ?eiy sorry," she added, gently, while a stranges, undefined sympathy crept into her tones, and prompted her to offer him her hand. ^ I shonld have been so glad to have prevented yonr — yonr caring for me in vain." *^ Perhaps," said Bernard, eagerly, the sym- pathy and the sorrow too subtle for his compre- hension, ** yon will feel differently — ^when ^ ^If we are ever to be fiiends at all," said Doris, speaking veiy firmly now, in her con- scionsness that Bernard wonld only understand the plainest negative, ^yon must never ask me this question again, Mr. Levey. I could never give you a different answer — ^and why should we weary eadi other with the subject? Thafa papa's voice. Will you call an answer, please V* But she was too kind to hasten finom him, even though the excuse was ready; and so they came up to the party, side by side, and only Rose could read tha whole truth in hec brother's sullen depression during their return* *'I shall be very glad to foUow yon to THE SQTTIRE'S LEGACY. 339 England," he said, ruefully, to Doris, as they landed hi the "noon of night"; "I would rather be at Osborne House than here." " Wait till you see the Zurich library," said Doris, gravely. z2 340 CHAPTER XXn. " TTOME again, Doris T Aa ««YeB — ^home again, papa." To Doris, as she drove along the familiar road in the early Summer evening, it seemed as if those wonderful scenes in which she had so lately lived had belonged only to a dream^ and she had wakened now all the more keenly to feel her sorrow. It was but natural she should jGstncy it so, ia tBese first hours of her rel^ to thThome i. which Kenneth's presence was so familiar, and while her thoughts rested on him. ** Yes, home again, papa," she said, answering as cheerfully as she could. '* Aunt Joan, are you glad?" **I don't intend," said Miss Joan, with a great appearance of determination, as she laid her hand gently on Doris's, '^ever again to travel &rther than Charing Cross." THE squire's LEaACY. 341 " Why, auntie," whispered Doris, softly, *• what would you not do for those you lovef ' ** What do you mean, my dear f Do you fancy I went abroad to please anybody except myself?" ^ Oh no," smiled Doris, with a kiss ; ^* but I know how you best like to please yoursel£" Mr. Bradford had, all throtgh the drive, been sitting quite silent in his corner of the carriage > but now that they were in sight of home he roused himself; and who could guess, by his quick words, how full his heart was ? " Well, here we all are — the young folks who revelled in mountains, and the old fogy who longed for the London streets*" ''If it does you good to abuse the well- meaning old lawyer with whom you've been in the habit of travelling all your life," remarked Colonel Egerton, as they alighted at their own door, " why, I've no objection to your laying on, Macdu£^ to your heart's content." That evening, in the quiet sunset time, while the excitement of the home-coming still dis- tracted everyone indoors, Doris slipped away alone; not through the shrubbery and down the larch meadows, along the path which had 342: THE squire's legacy. grown so familiar to her, but through the lawa, and out into the park. She had her hands full of white roses and azaleas, and she walked on rapidly, towards the church beyond the great, silent, empty house. The trees were in their richest Summer beauty, and all around her Doris felt the hush of a delicious peace. Her steps slackened, unconsciously to herself, as her tHoughts dwelt on what Kenneth had said of this scene one day when he came from his London rooms; and again rose that intense longing that others^ who worked as he did^ should now and then enjoy tUe pure, Bweet, oountry air as he enjoyed it. The light was fading when she reached the churchyard, but the gate was open, and she passed in and laid her spotless flowers on Kenneth's grave. Then she took back one white rosebud for herself (because it had lain there), and kissed it and held it tenderly. And the light faded very softly as she knelt. The Rector's gardener, coming along the gravelled path, with heavy grating tread^ started a little in the gloaming when the girl rose to her feet at his approach ; but seeing THE squire's legaot, 343 Vfho it was, he paused, and would have turned, but that she spoke to him. He had only come round to lock the gate, he told her, as she stood, with a last look upon the grave, recalling that day when she and Ken-* Heth had lingered in this very spot, and spoken of its restfalness. And when " " Can you tell me," she said, speaking ratheif hurriedly — for there were some thoughts she dared not touch, because they scared her, even now that the past was softened to a calm and tender memory — "can you tell me who lies in this little new grave beside me I" Yes; that new grave, the man told her, speaking quietly, was a child's. The grave of Mr. Monkton's child, who'd been called the little Squire of Eingswood. Then the man turned away, for Doris had knelt beside this little mound of turf, and laid there the one white rosebud which she had taken from Kenneth's grave and kissed. Though the dusk deepened so rapidly among the trees in the park, Doris still walked home- wards very slowly, a quiet, thoughtful figure in her mourning dress, so small and solitary amid the giant trees. 344 THE squire's legacy. As she passed nnder the walk of the closed house, in the heavy shadow, her step slow and her tisuce bent in her deep thonght, Scot Monk- ton met her. He too was walking thoughtftiDy in the dying light, clad in mourning as she was; and, thongh he qnickly smiled to greet her, there was something in his face which, through all his struggles, she had never seen before. He was alone, and he, too, had lost some on^ whom he loved. So, quite simply and natu- rally, while her eyes were raised to his face in sympathy for a sorrow she had known, she held out both her hands, and left them in his close^ warm clasp. 345 CHAPTER XXIIL IN the twilight of a September evening Miss Joan sat in an idleness which was as unusual with her as was the restless solicitude of her thoughts. Looking absently before her, as she lay back in her easy-chair, she pictured, vaguely for Doris. Now and then before her eyes rose Eingswood, a beautiful home, where Scot and Doris lived in an atmosphere of love and felicity. She saw Scot nobly filling his high place, and Doris a sweet, happy wife and mother. She saw a crowd of children, making the grand old house into a perfect home, with their caresses, and their love, and their merri- ment. There was a little Scot, sturdy, and brave, and chivalrous, but with no stem duty awaiting him in the life to come ; and there was a shy-eyed girl with sunny hair, who had the fairy brightness she remembered in her own 346 THE SQUIBE'S IaEGAGY. Doris years ago. There was a gentle, stadious, little fellow, who bent above the books he loTed so well, but who had constantly to dose and leave them, at that loving call for *' Ken- neth.'' There was a tiny Margaret, the ^ Daisy " of the house, who did not know what loneliness conld mean ; and there was an in&nt in the mother's arms, revelling in caresses, while he bore the name of that little one who had known no watched and cherished babyhood* But now and then over the picture there spread a vagae, dim cloud. In fency now Miss Joan saw Scot alone at Eingswood — doing his duty still, but worn, and grave, and soli- tary, while Doris, a pale and silent woman^ walked on her way alone, until one day when they laid her near Kenneth in that quiet church'* yard in the park. Miss Bradford roused herself with a shudder^ and took up her work, determined to think no more. But our thoughts are subject to no word of command, and hers was still skirmish- ing where they would on this debatable land, when Colonel Egerton entered the room, and laughed to meet her absent gaze. *' Dreaming, Joan ?" THE squire's legacy. 347 "Day-dreaming, yes," she said, with her gentle smile. *' Dreaming a ftiture for Doris* How I wish that she would decide it for her* self!" " So she will in time," the Colonel answered^ cheerily. "It is three months already since Scot told her of his love, and I'm sure she can see how dear she is to him. Trust me, his straightforward, manly wooing will win her." " If I felt sure she would say * yes ' at last." " Do you really think that she cannot learn to love him ?" "If I did," replied Miss Joan, smiling, "I should not be harassed with this uncertainty. Don't you know that we often shrink from a happiness which we know has been denied to one we loved ? — but all the better, Tom, if you cannot understand me." " I know one thing," said the Colonel, ear- nestly, " that to no one else could we give our child so willingly — eh, Joan ?" " To no one, indeed." "And Bradford is as anxious as we are. He loves very deeply — though so undemonstra- tively — where he loves at all, and for a long time Scot Monkton has been very near his 348 THE SQinBlf S LEOAGT. heart. As for Doris, she has always been nearly as much his cfafld as my own. By the -way, Joan, will yon come with me to the sta- tion ? I have a £incy Bradford will be down to-night, and the drive will do ns no harm, even if he is not." '« Where is Doris ?" ^* She set out with Arthur to walk to Comdy Place, an hoar ago." ^ Isn't it delightfdl, Tom, to have Arthnr among ns once more ?" She had no need of any answer beyond the intense gladness of his smile ; and while they were on their way to the village station she listened, in pleasure eqnal to his own, to his proud, loving mention of his son. But as they passed Kingswood, Colonel Egerton drove slowly. **How beautiful Monkton is making the house and grounds !" he said. *^ I suppose his wish personally to overlook the improvements is bis real reason for staying on at the Black Birches." ^' I doubt it," answered Miss Joan. *' I be- lieve he is hoping to go back— with Doris." ^' He deserves a smooth and happy life here THE SQUIRE'S LE6A0T. 349 now. Though I doubt," added the Colonel, with a laugh, '* whether his life can eoet be really smooth anywhere — I mean in Bernard Levey's acceptation of the term." Colonel Egerton had been mistaken when ho said that Doris had gone with her brother to Comely Place. She had only walked down the garden with him, and they had parted at the shrubbery gate. So when she returned to the house she found herself alone. But of course her father and Aunt Joan would return soon ; they would only have gone to take a stroll in the gloaming. She would wait at the window, then she could join them when they came in sight. — ^No, she would not watch at all. She laughed at herself as she turned away. It seemed so curious to be changing her mind about a thing which signified so Uttle. She sat down to the piano and began to play, softly and dreamily, as if the music were but the voice of her own thoughts; and while she played, some one came in to her, whose very presence in the silence (even before he spoke) made her heart beat, and her hands fail at their task. 350 THE squire's legacy. '^ Do yon know, I think, Mr. Monkton/' said Doris, striying after her vanishing ease, '' that on the very first evening I spent at the Black Birches I played this very lAed into which I had faUen." " Yes ; I recognised it in a moment." ^^ I did not — at least, I did not recollect it tmtil I saw yon." She had risen now, but stood before the piano, very pretty in the fair September twi- light, and looking very calm, though she was struggling with a nervous new timidity. '* Papa is out, Mr. Monkton ; but in a few minutes I think ^" ^<I came to see you, Miss Egerton," said Scot, standing opposite her against the table, for after his greeting he had moved back from the piano. *' I came to ask you if you forget that it is three months since you promised that * in a month or two ' you would give me an answer to my entreaty." " I had not forgotten ; but " ^^ I know," he went on, in her pause, speak- ing quite calmly in the strain he put upon him- self (which even such long practice had not made it easy to put) *^ that t might wait pa- THE squire's legacy. 351 tientlj for many more months, and even years — as I shall wait, Doris, if you bid me — ^but I want you to tell me if there is hope that you will in time accept my love, and be my wife, And I want " — his face had been very grave in its great earnestness, but an added sadness fell upon it now — " to tell you that, if you feel there is no hope, you have no need to hide the truth from me in your compassion. It will be easier for me to part with my hope now, than it can be when hope has grown into a familiar friend. This evening I have come once more to ofiFer you my love — the first and only love of my manhood ; I will not say how strong and firm it is, because that can make no difference now in your own feeling. If my persistence pain you, Doris, tell me now. If you cannot feel that you would be happy if you gave your life to me, then say good-bye, dear friend, and I will go and try to get accustomed to a soli- tude where your dear voice and face will be but memories. If" — ^the words were very low, but every one was clearly uttered — "if you would rather that I never urged again this ear- nest suit of mine, then tell me so to-night, and I will go." 352 THE squire's legacy. He held his right hand towards her, perhaps to help her in this parting scene, perhaps in the longing to touch the small clasped fingers ; bat she looked from it straight up into his &ce — questioningly, even wistfully. ^* I do not know what answer would be best." "Not know?" he answered, speaking very calmly, because all his thoughts were brave, andaUhispaBriontindercontroL "Itisarery simple question, after all. If you feel that you can never think of me but as an old friend, the answer to my prayer is but a simple one for you to utter. Do you wish to say it, Doris?" In his chivalry he tried to help her, even in dealing him this blow, but she could read his &ce so plainly now that no command he put upon himself could hide what his heart held of love and longing. " But if you feel that you can love me, per- haps some time " " Oh I Scot, I — ^love you — now I" The words had come softly from her lips, un- checked, and she stretched both her hands to him, as once before, in the grave Summer twilight, she had sought his dasp and comfort in her own sorrow, and offered him her own the while. THE SQUIBE*S LEGACY. 353 Before her face bent from his sight she had read the intensity of his gratitude, and seen that tide of joy which swept, like a wave of sun- light, over this manly courage which had been his armour. " Then, my beloved, he whispered, his voice shaken in this moment of utter content, " give me my answer.'* His arms were round her, and his glad, brave face was bont to hers. She had but to lift her eyes— bright in their joy and innocence, and steadfast in their love and trust«-to his, and the answer was given. VOL. in. AA 354 CHAPTER XXIV. THE beauty of the day was matchless, as are those rare Autumn hours whea the grave elder sister of the Summer puts forth her riper charms for a brief rivalry. Clear and marked against the purple sky, on the summit of one plot of verdant rising ground, just beyond the Kingswood boundaries, rose a long, low building, from which, in the bright sunshine, waved a flag at either end, bearing no English emblem, but the gay one of the stars and stripes. This long, imposing struc- ture was the model house and farm which Luke Hawthorne had built, himself overlook- ing and helping in the work, and living the while in the moveable wooden dwelling which Miss Michal — the old name still slips out — ^had grown to think home indeed. And the signals were displayed upon that Autumn day, to show that the great work was finished. THE squire's legacy. 355 So old fnends, looking up to see these waving emblems, smiled with real pleasure, and started for the spot, because it was an old promise that all Luke Hawthorne's friends should go up and wish him joy, when the last touch had been given. From Comely Place the flags were not visible, but that signified little, for no sooner had they been seen from the Dower House than Arthur Egerton rode off to tell Margaret. She heard his horse's step upon the gravel, and told Steven so ; and then, as her brother went to meet him, she stood waiting, her calm eyes very bright and glad. "Margaret," said Captain Egerton, as he came gaily in, ** Steven has gone to order your horses. Are you ready for a ride f " " I am always ready when you come." He was a grave, stern-looking man, his hair thickly silvered, and his shoulders bent — as old- looking as his father— but when he spoke or listened to Margaret his face wore a vigour and a tenderness which brought back his lost youth. " And I am always coming, am I not, Mar- garet? Tou have power over. me, dear, for everything except to keep me away from you AA 2 356 THE squire's legagy. any longer. I have accepted now, from your own lips, the fate against which I rebelled so surlily twelve years ago, but I will have my own way too, and make you my care. Say, is not happiness possible to two dear friends, al- though they do not wed ? I shall live near you always now, and we are old, old friends. I was thinking only this morning, dear, as I rode along — reminded, I suppose, by Hawthorne's com- pleted work — that you and I must plan some outlay for all my wealth. We shall have no one to inherit it, and so why should we not use it for all the good we can t" But you will " Now, Margaret," he interrupted, gravely, " you know quite well that what you are going to say is not true. If it had been possible that any one could have taken your place in my heart, it would have been taken while I thought you cold and heartless. My love, could you imagine it possible now, when I knctw you have loved me, and when you have even told me * yourself that my friendship makes your life a little less — grey and solitary ?" « " Grey and solitary 1" echoed Margaret, the glad tears rushing to her eyes. " Why, Arthur, (6 THE squire's leg ACT. 357 I can hardly yet believe in the great happiness of seeing you sometimes, and knowing that yon do not think me hard and unfeeling and un- grateful. That this should be through my telling my secret, and that I should have struggled so long against telling it! Do you wonder, Arthur, that I cannot believe it, even yet ?" " Indeed, I don't, as you evidently considered yours was to be a life with no happiness." " I could never tell you what it is to feel I have your friendship now, and your sympathy, -and your care." "And pray who else," questioned Captain Egerton, trying to make his own words very light, "should be my care? My father is far too thorough an old soldier to deign accept- ance of any; Aunt Joan has everybody's. Doris, you must own, has sufficient lavished upon her. And as for Mr. Bradford," laughed Arthur, " neither Scot nor Doris allows an op- portunity for anyone else to bestow any care upon him" "I see," said Margaret, laughing, in spite of her wet eyes. " But you haven't mentioned Steven." 358 THE squire's legacy. "Steven needs so little now," returned Ar- thur, lightly. " Besides, I can never recall my lost time, and rival Scot or Doris — ^but remem- ber I do not want to do so, Margaret. The way in which I want to make up for my lost time is in my effort to lighten your perplexities and troubles. In the meantime my own per- plexity is, why you caused that lost time I Ah, Margaret, you should have told me the truth at once. I never shall quite understand why you did not." " I think you do already," she said, with a smile. " You would have ^We were younger then," she added, breaking off gently, "In any case life would have been the same for you, and that time has done me good. Then think how it has made me appreciate the dear Mends I have now. Arthur," she added, looking earnestly into his face, " you can never guesa the difference there is in my life, now that I do not bear alone that secret fear." " I can- see a difference, dear," he said, " since I came back to you, more than a year ago ; but you are to me just the Margaret of eigh- teen, whom I first learnt to love. There comes Steven. How quiet he is always, and how happy, Margaret !" THE squire's legacy.' 359 "And does he not owe that to you, Arthur?" "So much more to Scot, though, and to Doris — and we cannot even say, as Mrs. Haw- thorne does, * that's all,' for chief of all has been his sister's life-long care and gentle company. Now here are the horses." Biding was a new pleasure to Margaret,^ one of those which her old friend had taught her — though Steven had been long ago tempted by Scot Monkton, and had only left off riding when Scot had been unable to lend him a horse which he could trust, and to ride with him, as he had so often done from Kingswood — and to both the brother and sister this new enjoyment was one of their greatest. " I am so glad Mr. and Mrs. Hawthorne have such a beautiful day," said Margaret, uttering aloud the continuation of a ^thought, as they turned from the highroad into the park, and rode down the larch meadows to the river path opposite where the Black Birches once had stood. " I don't believe the completion of his model building means quite a festival for Hawthorne,'^ laughed Arthur Egerton. " I am sure the daily 860 THE sqihre's legacy. inspection — and above all his own manual part — has been the most supreme enjoyment to him." *^ Tm sure it has ; bnt then he will have so much to do there still. Ton have just as much enjoyed helping him too, haven't you ?" ^^ Tes, it has been a capital idea altogether, and capitally carried out. He and I should have missed our old hard work, if we had had nothing to graduate us to idleness ; and then it has been such an amusement too, and I should think our laughter from that spot must sometimes have astonished the quiet country folk. Hawthorne has been such a pleasant tyrant over his work — such a hearty, cordial blusterer — and so amusingly staunch to his own opinions, while he invariably consulted ns; frankly acknowledging to me that Monkton's skill in matters of farming (and knowledge of horses and cattle generally) was far superior to mine, and just as graciously confessing to Monkton that my practical powers with a pick and saw were enormous. And beyond that, Margaret, his confidence in his wife's taste and skill, in her special departments, is unlimited, and a famous sight," THE squire's LEGAOr. 331 *' All have had a hand in the house, or farm, or gardens, haven't they t" " Everybody," assented Arthur, laughing. ** It has been a regular game for us all, and I sup- pose that is why it has taken so long. But at any rate, we are all to have the pleasure of seeing our work complete to-day, and the little wooden engineering house <iarried off — I believe verily that Mrs. Hawthorne will regret that. She has been thoroughly happy in it, in spite of a few efforts after what I fancy must once have been an almost chronic dejection — efforts which Hawthorne seems to know exactly how to treat. She smiles now at any idea of another separation between them, but sometimefl — in a moment of unusual content — she still likes to indulge in a few tears." "I often think," said Margaret, presently, ** how strange it was for you to meet with Mr. Hawthorne." " Not at all, dear. I advertised for a working partner who thoroughly understood engineer- ing, and was English — I made that stipulation, simply because I hoped I might catch some fellow who was solitary over there, like myself." " I see. It was a strange career for you to 362 THE squire's legacy. choose, though, Arthur! Why did not you, if you must leave England V « Why didn't I, if 1 must leave England," echoed Arthur, laughing at her tones, ^'go abroad, and idle away (in so-called pleasure) the best years of my life ? In my hot anger with you, Margaret, I did not wait to select very deliberately, and it has turned out well. Steven, what do you think of this valley now f " They had stopped to look around them, and the scene seemed beautiful to them all. The woods were brilliant and varied in their Autumn glory; the valley was rich with verdure and with harvest wealth, and through it the river ran glittering among the reeds and flowers ; while, in the utter stillness, they fancied they could even hear the leaves touch the tremulous waters. *' There is no more picturesque or richly-culti- vated spot on all the Eingswood estate," said Arthur, as they stood, ^^ than this valley where the Black Birches stood. Now let us canter to the bridge, or we shall not be among the first to offer our congratulations to tKe owners of By the way, 1 wonder whether they have fixed on a name for the estate ; we must ask." THE squire's legacy. 36& From the smooth square lawn before the new house on the slope Luke Hawthorne and hi& wife watched their friends coming towards them, on that wide, curved road, the cutting of which, through his own land, had perhaps been the achievement which had given Mr. Haw- thorne most delight of all. "Michal, my dear," he cried, as the first visitors neared the summit, ^'it's one gigan- tic triumph of engineering on a domestic s6ale, and I don't know what to say that's jolly enough to express my feelings. 'Rule Brit- tannia ' doesn't do it, because I had jilted her when I found my good luck, and * Hail Colum- bia' doesn't do it, because 1 had jilted her when I found my wife again. Could you sug- gest any exclamation in which the two ideas would be blended, my dear ?" " Perhaps, Luke," suggested Mrs. Hawthorne, looking pathetically up into her husband's face, as if aware he must be suffering a great deal, "if you were to say *Grod save the Queen' a few times it might relieve you." There was no further time for conjugal solace. In a few minutes, Mr. and Mrs. Haw- thorne were the centre of the wondering and 364 THE SQXTIRE'S I4E6ACY. admiring gronp of friends who had gathered to offer their cordial and sincere congratulations, and who, in earnest little clusters, were making fresh discoveries at eveiy step. And perhaps the only quite unexpected discovery among all, was the grove of newly-planted birch trees which gave the old well-known name to the house. When, after this investigation, they found lunch spread upon the lawn, and Mr. Haw- thorne's two men-servants, quick and deft, waiting to serve it, the surprise was laughed over, as if the day had held no greater. But a greater was to follow — a less pleasant one too, though that fact never went beyond the thoughts of any there. They were still sitting round the table on the lawn when such a dazzling equipage came dashing up the new road, that it was some minutes before any of them recognised its occupant as Count Vehren's wife — ^Bose Levey no longer. True, her hus- band was also with her in the carriage — so showy, with its rose-coloured lining and its vivid blasonry — ^but his diminutive figure was almost lost in the huge comer near her. Two footmen, in pink and gold, sprang down when THE squire's legact. 365 the carriage stopped before the gate, and Rose, in gorgeous apparel, laid her hand upon one pink sleeve, and alighted with that slow languor essential to the maintainence of a lofty position. She was complacently aware of the lasting benefit she conferred on the owners of this new house by a few moments of her presence to»day, and a few words of soulless compliment, but (for fear this fact might not have been fully impressed upon them under ordinary circumstances) she had ensured a dis- play -which would secure her from the chance of rivalry, even if her worst fears should be realized, and the Monktons should have ordered full dress livery, and gone in their greatest style. How many qualms she would have been spared that morning if she could have seen Scot and Doris walking through the park, and up the sloping road, the wife's hand clinging to her husband's arm, as if that support were dearer to her than a footman's — even in pink and gold. ^' I am glad you did not insist on our remain- ing, Rose," remarked Count Vehrens, with a fastidious shudder, as they drove back. ^^ Cer- tainly that appears to be a very perfect little ? \ 366 THE squire's legacy. estate — stupid name though, the Black Birches —each part being appropriately finished and compact. But what a fatiguing person; one feels in honour bound to doubt the fact of his good birth. And then for the Squire of Kings- wood to have personally assisted in this building, as well as that ex-Royal Artillery officer. Dear, dear, how your nation must be degenerating, love, to even alloio such tastes in its jmnesse dorie — ^it distresses me. Tell me what you your- self think on this question ; I have generally found your views commendable." " Oh I do try to be silent for one minute at a time," mattered Rose, pettishly ; " Pm tired." The Count subsided into a silence which was unusual, for, to do her justise, Rose rarely im- posed it upon him, leisure for thought being un- necessary to her as a rule. But just now her thoughts were busy in avague discontent. As she drove homewards, in her gaudy Parisian costume, her brilliant equipage flashing in the sunshine, and her husband's patents of wealth and no- bility stamped on everything about her, there hovered before her possibilities of warmer feel- ings, and of higher purposes which life might hold ; and, though they would fade in the next THE squire's legacy. 367 excitement, just now they made her heart — poor Rose ! — ^feel very void. A little later on Mr. Levey rode up from Osborne House. It being thoroughly against bis principles to be betrayed into any evidence of haste, he had postponed his visit until after- noon ; but it being equally against his principles to neglect any opportunity of mingling vith the ^^ county families," he had taken care to be in time. Bernard was unaltered since the time when he had first begun to mould himself upon Scot Monkton's model. If possible, this modelling was more indefatigably pursued than ever, now that the Squire of Kingswood stood so firmly on the highest place in the county ; but the dif- ference between the two young men was greater even than it had ever been. Not possessing feel- ings fine enough to discern why Scot's manner had had an added kindliness, since he had him- self won the wife whom Mr. Levey selected to woo, this kindliness had only added a pinnacle to the already lofty fabric of his self-importance ; and the reason he was still unmarried was, not because his heart had been broken by Doris Egerton's refusal, but because (was he not the 368 THE squire's legacy. brother-in-law of a Count?) he had made up his mind that a title would be a suitable appendage to the mistress of Osborne House. And so it naturally chanced that the suit he always coolly and complacently proposed, had not yet won any answer more encouraging than laughter or contempt. This constant succession of selection and pursuit might have its advantage in variety and excitement ; but there seemed danger of a time coming when Bernard would find it safest to seek some one to whom the charms of a well-filled purse, and an ostentatious esta- blishment, would have the added charm of novelty. But at last there came up the sloping walk one solitary guest, whom everybody recognized with such a glad, spontaneous shout of welcome, that when he heard it he looked up and paused one moment, as if the pleasure of such a gree1>- ing touched upon pain. And when they went beyond the open gate to meet him, and seized his hands so warmly — some the right and some the left — ^it was little wonder that the old lawyer uttered his words just then more curtly even than of old. » Then they had to lead him over the new THE squire's legacy. 369 model house and farm, and, though he took keen interest in all Luke Hawthorne said, and asked shretwd questions of Arthur Egerton, it was at Scot's side he liked to find himself. And, though he had congratulations for Mrs. Hawthorne, and pleasant jests for Margaret and Miss Joan, it was Doris's hand he liked to feel within his arm, and it was down into her bright; raised face he liked to look. The pleasant afternoon was nearly over, when Doris — ^who had been loitering with Steven Chamberlain among the foreign birds in Mr. Hawthorne's aviary, where he himself was now patiently entertaining Steven with their various habits and acquirements — met Mr. Bradford alone for the first time. She joined him with a smile of pleasure, and stood beside him at the new engine-house. " I cannot help thinking so much to-day," she said, presently, in her gentle, winning way, « of my own plans, Mr. Bradford. They have not even been begun, while all these are finished. Still, as you have promised some day to make them clear and practicable for me, I have no fear. But happiness always makes me think so much of Kenneth, and sometimes my thoughts feel VOL. in, BB 370 THE SQums's usaAGY. almost like his tlionghts. When may it be? IVe thought that if there were one large, comfortable, qtdet club-house, in grounds of its own, that there might be utter silence, and yet trees and grass and flowers — ^and not too far from town, of course — ^and where only those who find it hard to win their livelihood by their pen, may— -by paying just a little, you know, to make them fee l ' ^ "They'll feel nothing but laziness," put in the old lawyer, testily. ** We shall be overrun with scribblers," * "But — ^ pleaded Doris, looking up in sur- prise, as if she felt the old man's looks would belie his words. "It can't be done," he resumed, conclusively, "" until that house at Richmond is empty." " Your house, Mr. Bradford 1 Are you going to ^'And that liouse at Richmond," he con- tinued, unmoved, " won't be empty until T. & C. Bradford have won their last case. Tears, my little girl I I know you are in no hurry for the house, but you will find your plans all made easy for you then. I shall make them easy for you, dear; not for your sake, alone^ but for — my boy's. But old as I am, I can- THE SQUIRK'S legacy. 371 not rust out, Doris, I must wear out-r-as my « boy did. Ah ! at last, there's little Kenneth." " Yes. . Mr. Hawthorne made ns promise that even he should come here this first day," said Doris, with gentleness, as she noticed how tenderly the old man uttered her baby's name ; " but we thought he must not arrive too early, to distiurb anyone. Nurse took him to Anna Wakeley's cottage ; it is a favourite resort of hers, and Anna is fond of baby." ''I suppose she leads a peaceful life there now ?" ''Yes; it is even a happy one. Scot has given her the cottage for her liife, and she gets so much work to do that she lives very com- fortably; and I think everybody is fond of Anna. Of course, she could never have loved her husband, you know." " Think not ? Didn't Wakeley strike you as a loveable person ?" " Listen," cried Doris, laughing ; " they are calling us. Oh I Mr. Bradford, isn't it nice to see papa and Arthur together ? Certainly they do seem more like brothers than father and son; but then" — with a thoughtful air which was not free from pride — " it's all the better, I bb2 372 THE SQUIRE S LEGACY. think, because Scot is so like papa's son. And isn't Margaret happy f And did you hear Steven laughing with me just now f And ^" " Doris, my dear," interposed Mr. Bradford, with great solemnity, '^ I miss our hostess. Do you think she has run away from her husband again s It was Scot who found his aunt at last, sitting behind an ample laurSl in a distant corner of the lawn, rocking herself in a low garden-ohair and crying placidly. " What is it. Aunt Michal ?" he asked, sur- prised and anxious. « Has any thing distressing occurred to-day — of all days ? Why do you cry I" "Because — why, because," she sobbed, as if the answer to i^uch a question ought to have been self-evident, "it is so— so enjoyable— my dear." The rich Hght of that evening sunset glides softly into the long library at Kingswood; while the frescoed gods and goddesses, warm and ruddy in its glow, look down upon its sole occupant, as they looked one other evening long ago, when he had fancied that he sat there for the last time. Beautiful and dear as his home had been to him when looking bravely forward, he had left THE squire's legacy. 373 it at what he felt to be the call of duty, it ifl far more beautiful and far more cherished now. Handsome and happy as the young Squire had been on that day we first saw him lying back in this very chair, with his cornet in his hand, he is a far handsomer and happier man to-day. His life had never been a life of show and pomp — ^his nature was both too thorough and too earnest for that — but it is a life now which carries a wide influence for good ; and while his name is widely known, and his thoughts valued on all national and public questions, his staunch support is ever on the side of right ; and when that right seems hard to follow, he is all the better an adviser, friend, or master, from having known what poverty means, and from having been — what he still is proud to call himself, for he understands the wide meaning of the term— a working man. In many a private way, outside the world of politics and public life, he finds it easy to help his fellow-men, and there are times when Lewis Baine comes down to Eingswood with intelli- gence of some poor fellow who, in his despair, has tried to seek out Mr. Albert Mostyn — the house in Duke Street knows Mr. Mostyn no more — or such as he. And in such case of need 374 THE squire's legacy. —for Raine brings no word of cases which are not real cases of need— the gift or simple loan, without a thought of interest, passes, through Baine or Mr. Bradford, to the man whose trouble Scot can understand so well. None of these thoughts are passing through his mind to-day. His mental gaze has not travelled beyond the walls of his own home, when he takes up his cornet and begins to play* As he plays, Doris enters the room, and comes- softly up behind him with their baby in her arms* Within a few yards of the low chair — where Monarch sits beside his master just as he did on that first day we saw him, three years ago — she stops, raising her finger to baby with a' gesture of silence which she belieyes to be fully com- prehended, and obeyed, by that marvellous infant. It is a pretty picture — the mother's eyes brimming over with laughter, as her desire to keep her baby silent, does battle with her pride in the incomprehensible springs and thrusts which she translates into a perfect appreciation of his father's music. *' I'm sure," she says, when Scot leaves o£^ and she comes softly up and sits beside him, turning to him a face so pretty in its utter THE squire's legacy. 375 happiness, '^ that little Kenneth will be a great musician, Scot." ^' Not a doubt of it. I understand he is to be in every way the greatest man of his age. Of course I'm very proud to know it, but my one hope for him — always swallowing every other — is that he shall be as happy a man as his father. Can that be possible, though, my own dear wife, unless — near or far off — a little Doris will presently appear." "Just play one tune and try. Soot," Dorid says, demurely ; "while you hold him yourself, for he will be sent for in a minute." Scot plays a few bars, his eyes full of laughter as his boy's tiny hand is thrust into his beard. « You see." 'saya DoHb. ;with great gravity. " That shows how he likes it." "I see," rejoins Scot, with still greater gravity. " That punch he gave me shows how he likes it." " Do you notice his hair, Scot ?" inquires Doris, still declining to be betrayed into a smile on this subject, and surreptitiously ruffling the short locks upwards as she speaks ; he will have just your own curls." " That won't do. How am I to get on with- out them ?" 376 THE SQUIRE*S LEGACY. ^ Really, Scot," bis young wife says, leaning her bright head on his shoulder, ** if I didn't know yon so well, I might think yon were qnite calm abont baby. Bnt then" (with a bright low langh) ^Ido know you, yon see. And be- sides that," she adds, with sudden tenderness in her tone, ** I can always remember your love for Uttle WiUy.'' ^ Doris, my darling," Scot says, as his eyes meet hers, in their great warmth of love and pride, ^ dearly as I grew to love that little lonely feUow, this love is different. £xcept yourself my own beloved, the world holds nothing half so dear; and I wonder whether yon will ever quite know how much I love you." ** Do you think," she answers, smiling brightly into his earnest eyes, ^that it is hard to understand a feeling so entirely my own? I know your love for me, by my own love for you, dear husband." **I wonder," Scot says, presently, when baby has been carried away, while stiU Doris Kngeis at his side, ^ why my thoughts have been so busy with old times while I have sat here this evening waiting for you ?" ^Because there has been such a gathering to-day, and because we are to meet here again THE squire's legacy. 377 to-night. I am so glad you thought of that, Scot. It will be such a pleasant ending of the day." " 1 thought of it, eh ? But I wasn't musing exactly of the pleasantest of the old times, I'm ashamed to say. I was recalling one day when I sat here, just as I do now, and they brought me word a gentleman wished to see the picture gallery. That ^ gentleman ' was Monsieur Sourdet, Doris, and he was then prosecuting his search for the original of the photograph be carried." '^ And, when the thought was over, you found me here instead," Doris says, brightly. ^ Stay one moment, Scot, please — don't interrupt me yet. Talking of Monsieur Sourdet as a gentle- man reminds me, too^ of something belonging to old times. You won't remember it, of course ?" " Certainly not, if it touches upon you. . I remember nothing of that kind." "You won't remember — probably,** amends Doris ; " but it was one day I sat by the rirer waiting for Kenneth, and you came with him ftom the Black Birches, and asked me what I was thinking of; and I read you a few lines of Hare's, describing what a real gentleman should be. I wasn't quite open about that, Scot. It was you I had been thinking of, and bow little 378 THE squire's legacy. your busy life had changed you; and the words fitted in of themselves to the thought — only it luckily happened that I had just read ^hem, and so I could say so. But I remember you spoke rather strangely about it all, as if you knew nothing about such feelings. You often did speak so to me, Scot, I used to fancy." " Did you ?" he asks, quite coolly, while he bends to kiss her with great tenderness. " I have some recollection of those times — faint, of course, as you so correctly insinuate, — and I think, some day, beloved, that you may possibly understand what puzzled you then. Not quite immediately, but — let me see — ^when Kenneth grows up, perhaps, and tells his mother his love secrets. Ah ! what a blush ! Did you not know, my darling, how I loved you even then ? and how, in every word you said, I felt My precious wife, look up again, with that truthful light within your eyes. I will not pain you by a word. I have no more old days to recall ; I will explain no more cold words. I will just read my own love-story where now it is so clear to me ; and — as Aunt Michal says — ' that's all.' "  THE END. 