THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S. BETÖRE THE PLAY BEGINS. The well-known and always populär Common Lodging House in Sweet Lilao Walk, Spitalfields, has ohanged hands more than once since the year 1868. Had one nothing better to do, it would be interesting to follow the fortunes of the successive Chiefs of this Institution, as well as the fate of those who hav* enjoyed its luxuries. This research, however, must be abandoned for other hands, younger and stronger. As regards the appear- ance of the House in that year, it was very much the same as it is now. For public opinion in such matters is conservative : paint costs money : mere Ornament is useless ostentation : even if you were to gild a lodging-house you eould do no more than fill it: window eleaning, floor scrubbing, door-step whitening, furniture dusting, and the sweeping of stairs and passages all require the personal effort of somebody — who must be paid: and why perform a task which is neither needed nor appreciated ? Would our gallant Tars oontinue to holystone the decks if their officers eeased to require of them that duty ? Certainly not. Then why blame the Master, Warden, Principal, or Dean of the Common Lodging House in Sweet Lilao Walk because he neglecta what he is not caüed upon or ezpected to perform ? The least desirable, and the cheapest, part of the establish- ment twenty years ago — perhaps it is so still — was a oertain room in the basement. Here there were no beds, every man, woman, and child sleeping on the floor without either bedding or blanket. There was not so much as a wisp of straw to mitigate the hard- ness of the boards — you oannot even now, I believe, buy off THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S borrow mich & thing as a wisp of sir&w in the whole of Spitalfielda, For all alike there waa the fio&r to Üb upon, unleaa the lodger» preferred to lean against the wall. Yet, eince rootn must be always left for the exercwe otf choice and individual taste, there were favourite and eligibls "aitca in which the aleeper could be agreeably, gently, and epradually wanned all over by the fire, jua» aa there were otha,*ä"where one would be frozen by diatance or roaated by undue-preiimity. The rootn weä Mied every night. Its ocenpants were thoee whom we asaqclate with the Lowest Depth — ignorantly, becanae no one, apt ev&n a Hospital Nurae, has over found the Lowest Depth. The people who frequent euch ft room seera at flrat aa if they'onujät be an intereating folk, lroin whoae stränge and Tariaö'-Wperieiices we might be led to expect whole mines of accumulated wisdom and treasures of aagacity. On examina- _tiori,''.nbwever, we find that their experiencea have all gone for qäthing. Their min da are empty, entirely erapty. What they ??Jearn one day they forgot tho next : in faot, they necer do learn: -.'rtiey do not put tögelher eventa and draw conclusiona: they pay no heed to the wanta and desires of any but themaelvee ; they know not any past and they look not for any ftiture : their ideaa on the conduet of lit'e have nothing at all to do with the complex Ctvilisatioti which ia around thein but does not contain them. There ia a poasible Classification of mankind which no philo- ?opher, to my knowledge, ha.s hitherto considered. I mean, one based upon the wants, the desires, the aapirations, and the prayera of man, as they vary aeeording to his varioua social Eevela. Ton, dear reader, if yon were pressed to own the truth, would doubtleaa confesa that yon continually desire above all things the spiritual gifte and graces, and ask for nothing bat to »dvance daily in the practic« of virtuea too lofty to be even sus- pected f^y your humbler brother. You are, in fact, abont to take a Firat Class (Hononrs) in the Virtue Tripos. On the other hand, your inferior brother — he of the Bo-called Lowest Depth — if he ever prays (which ia indeed doubti'ul), or if he ever formu- lates hia wants (which he certainly cannot do), would ask for warmÜi first — warmth is the first factor in physicai comfort — and for drink next. Tbirdly, he would ask for food J fourthly, for "tobaeoo. Aa for aoeiety : conversation : respectable attire: eleanlineas : love: sympathy : self-culture : knowledge: godli- nesa — all Üiese thinga will come to him by degreea, as one «Beende the soale. But at first —down there — he asks for nothing but the simples! elements of physicai comfort. The lodgers, then, being such aa ihese, came to the bare room because it was oheap and warm. Here there was every night • great fire built up — one that would last from midnight nntil six in the morning : they had, t herefore, wamjth. Ä jet of gas wai »lao bm-ning all night, ao ttiat tho people had light. Thelodgers dropped in one after Ihe other and lay down; soon they grew warm : perhaps they were hungry — well, no great matter, betler a lmndred nights without supper than one in the co!d. The air of the room presently beeame bo foul that it might have re- minded the hiatorical Btudent (if any were preseot} of Newgate, Ludgate, or the Compter in the c" for the foul air; they were war Soor was hard : the place was crammed ; aa wretehed as themselvei " ' tnorning they would have ti again : meantärne, they were warm. He who is down, Bings the aweet poet of Eedford Clink, need fear no fall. The thought is doubtless a consoling boon to all thosa who are down. It should be graven on the pewter pote. These people were certainly very low down : their liiatorieB, had they been investigated, would have been those of the etoaebroka sporting man ; the clerk with a lost character j the workman out of work ; the pennilesa thief ; the unrepentant— though middle- aged— Magdalena ; the bankrupt sbopkeeper ; the onee brilliant masher of the music hall ; the prison bird out for a spell of freedom; the tramp of the oasua) ward; they were,no doubl, all here, with their wivea and ladyloves. But it is twenty yeara ago ; the goodly Company of this night must be nearly all dead, Why disturb the rubbish heap of twenty yeara ? BeaideB, their Buecessora we have alwayswith us; their Btories — which require a good deal of artistic dreseing — are always the same ; if any of that night'e eompany still survive, their remaining days will be few and evil indeed— füll of pneumonia, bronchitia, rheuma- tiam, lumbago, Bciatica and asthm» : they must now, those who are left, bo drawing very near to the clean white bed in the quiet ward, where, after they have undergone the last indignity which Civilisation has in störe for them — namely, that of being washed all over— they will be moBt tenderly cared for ; and when the last hour comes they will receive from the Nurae — or perhaps from the Sieter, or even from the Chaplain himself — a kindly and affectionate dismissal lipon that lonely journuy of which we poetically say that it leads — 'Whither? ' They lay asleep aide by aide all through the night. There was no talkiug : some groanod who had pains ; some snored ; some coughed ; some lay like logs, and some rolled and fidgeted. When the day began they got up, pulled their rags and duda iogether, and miserably sallied forth without so much as a good morrow, to look for windfalls and strokes of luck ; their hand« ?nd eyes keen to take advantage of careless coBters and purblind saleemen ; ready to pick up unobnerved tritles, oorner bita, block Ornaments, scraps, shards, and ahreds ; open to receive ahns and THE BELL OF ST. dolea if any ahould be ofiered ; professing to yenrn for Jobs and the hardeßt kinda of work, and lamenting tbe difficulty of finding employment however tough. But for the moat part theaepeople love not odd joba, and cannot abide regulär work — the tramp, cftaual feela the curae of labour mors keenly than hia Hoher brothera : for ehoico they wait on the Great God Luck, the only deity whorn they worship. Some of them have once been steady workmen, perhaps, in tho past ; but, look you, when a man haa been out of work for flüc months and baa pledged hia toola, and haa droppod out from the Company of former matea, he has loat more than hia wages : akill and eleight of band have gone aa well ; worat of all, the power of work haa gone. He cannot work. Whatever offere, he can work no longer. Let ua pity the poor casual aa muco aa we posaibly can : no creature ia more deserving of pity becaose ho cannot be helped upwards. If any one were to give him work to do he could not do it : ho can no longer climb, he can only eat. He ia condemned to remain, for the rest of bis miserable life, a larrikin, a loafer, a hoodlum, a tramp : a oreature who will ateal, devour, and deatroy, but will not produce. The lodgera, therefore, in thia warm room got up when the Ootober sun begau to ahine upon the atroets of flliilillfllMi Obaerve that the aun falls aapleaaantly and eheerfully upon theaa dingy atreeta aa upon the red and golden leaves of the Forest a hundred milea away. By seven o'clock the gaa was turned down ; the Are had bnrned itself to white aahea ; and the room, Bave for three children, was rjuite empty. These children were lying tortthM in a eorner, their arma and legs a good deal mixed, and their heads triangularly dis- posed, ao that each ehould find upon the other a Boft and warm pillow. Ab for tbe grace and beauty of the grouping, no young IPrincas could dispoaeofthemeelves more pictureaquely than theaa three little gutter children, all in rage, their facea and handa sniircliod, thoir feet bare. They were all three aleeping still. When the Company of the night got np and went forth, on» by one, they left open the atreet door. Then the air, which ii thei «,-? ii Win. bau; the moraing ia quite aa sweet, cool, and refreahing in Spitalfislda aa in Hyde Park, began to pour into the narrow pasaage, and thenoe to fall and flow in a soft, noiaeless, and copioua caacade down the Blairs and into the basement room, riaing by degreea, as a lasher riaes after rains have awollen tho mountain Btreams. When thia cold but invisible pool had risen to a height of four inohea and a half the children began to be restless. They rolled their hoada : they opened their hands : they began to dream. Natuially, they dreamed that, their headaches were gone —they always bad a headache in the moming : tliat they were neither hluigry nor cold: that there was notliing to be afraid of, no BEFORE THE PLA Y BEGINS ctuTb and kicks to axpect : that the whole of terror had gone out of their lives : that they were in Heaven — only they knew not the name of the lovely place: that they were sucking oranges, and that their pocketa were füll of brown sugar, Thia blissfiil viflion laeted for the space of a minute and a half. Still the cold air continued to niount higher. The children ahivered and kicked, Ölung closer to each other, awoke with a start, and then, with one consent, Bat up, rabbing their eyes, and looking about them, 0008010110 that another day had begun. And they wondered, being qnite experiencod people, though not yet in years, what the day would produce in the way of grub. To suah children there is neither breakfast, lunch, dinner, fea, nur supper; every meal is a moveable feast : they eat what they can get, and when it eomea, A hunch of bread may be breakfast, liinch, dinner, tea, or supper: a snack of fried fish— but oh I how soidom it is exhibited except in the sliop window I — is a banquet whenever it appenrs. Aa for the fresh air, it mounted higher and higher, inch by inch, driving before it the foul and poisonous breath of the night, Most of this, being forced up the chiinney and so discharged upon the roof, rolled heavily about, n deadly, poisonoua vapour, until it was blowu to pieces, clionncally chunged, and absorbed with the wholeBome smoke of the chimney-pots. It lay clingiug to the sloping tiles, it surged over invisible — yet it could be feit — npon tho guttera, and rolled into tlio spout. Herc it feil lipon three youug aparrows, who at the first breath of this deadly brew, gaBped, tumed back their eyca and dropped forward on their beaks with stiffened limbs, thus cruelly cut off in early promise. The Tom, who waa watching them with a half-fonned intention from the ambiish of the chiinney, escaped with typhoid and aix weeks of hospital. The three children ' belonged '—the word mttst not be taken in its narrowest sense — to a woman wbo waa atanding at the etreet door, her hands upon her hipe, a shawl over her head. 8ha waa a stuut and atrong woman whoae red and brawny arms pro- clainied a strengt h surpassing that of her sex in generol. Her face was weather-beaten, her eyes wäre black, and her coarse biack hair waa thick and plentiful. Kho was — alaa for perished yoatb! — fifty years of age or more, Perhapa in early daya her featurea might have been comely : perhaps not ; and to üb, really, it mattere very little. Her cneeka were Uotched ; her neck was thick and pufly; Vier eyeB were watery; her lipa trembled. These are signs which wa commonly assouiate, rigbtly or wrongly, with strong drink. She was a woman of terrifying aspect, before whose wrath the bravest man would crouch or fly. She atood at the open door, looking down the narrow street as if ?he expeeted some one. In fact she had an appointment ; and S THE BELL OF ST, PAUL'S while ehe waited a gentleman appeared Walking qaickly down tue street in order to keep that engagement. Twenty yeara ago tlie appearance of a gentleman in a Bpital- fields back street was rare— one should not throw mad at an- cestora, but this fact cannot be denied. Tbereforo, those of the iuhabitants who were in the street looked surprised ; those who feared the police in piain elothes eflaced themselvas ; those who wore in the upper Chambers regretted that they had no flower- pot to drop upon the head of the visitor : it was feit that if it had boen evening instead of moraing, if the street had eontained ite füll population, united aotion lnight have bustled the stranger out of his purse, watch, chorcs, rings, pins, handkorohief, pocket- book, silk hat, and broadcloth, and saut bim forth, aa ßatcliffe Highwny in the good old days loved to dismiss its sailors, into the wide wida world with nothing upon him but a newspaper — and that not the thick and solid Times — to keep off the cold and wind and rain. The gentleman, however, wolked along asif ho was not in the least afraid of receiving these attontioiis. In fact, he was not one of those who are afraid of back gl ums, and if anybody had tried to bustle him there would have been a surprise for that bustler, Ho was a man abont forty, Btrong, black bearded, well ' Well, old lady,' he said, in a clear ringing voice, ' I am not too aarly, I see. You ara up with the lark of Bethnal Green : you soar and sing at Heaven's. gate : your heart is fall of praise and your every breath is a hymn. Come down to earth, Alight upon the dewy eward. Where's the boy ? ' 'He's in the house,' the woman rcplied, with a flash in her eye which showed that Bhe was Bwift to wrath and that ehe only stood nonsense for commercial reasons. ' As for parting with one of those dear ehildren ' ' Yes, I know. Stow that and bring out the boy, Stay I Let me go and find him.' The woman led the wtty down the Blairs. The three ehildren were dow on their feet, shivering in their bath of fresh air, and wnndeiing why they had bceti left so long. As a rule the duties of the day — that ig, the cadj;e for eoppers and orusts, the ouffs and clouts, the buslle and business of the lively street — had already hegun by this time. They were hungry, of oouree, but that was no new thing. Thcre wore two boys and a girl. All three were dark-skinned and blaek-eyed; all three had thick tuasstB of black hair. The two eider looked as if they would grow np into oomely youth, if they only got a fair show and a sulfieiency of food. The yuungtit, however, was o most curi- ously ugly ohild : his hair wns like a coarse mat ; his forehead was broad and Square but much too large for his face ; his blank BEFORE THE PLAY BEGINS 7 eyes were large and hollow ; bis nose was almost fiat ; hü snnken cheefcs, wido mouth, and pale face produced tbe disagreeable impression of a skull with a skin drawn tightly over it. All three children, at Che appearanoe of their guardian, shrank back and hfted up their hands as if to ward off a blow. 1 Hers they are, Sir," said the woman. ? I aee. And thiB ' — he laid Ms hand upon the head of the youngeat — ' is the one I have bought.' ' Buy them all, good gentleman,' said the woman. ' Ton can have the lot, if you hke. Here'a Sal : ahe'e eight already and clever — why, there'a no name for her cleverneas. She'll be a oredit to any one who haa the brin ging of herup: there'a nothing you can't teach Bai. And as for looks, if you think of them, in eight or nine years more ahe'll be fit for ailk atockinga, and a carriage of her own. Buy her, good gentleman. You ahall have her cheap. There'a the other boy, too — my httle Pharaoh — the image of his father. Buy the lot.* 1 No,' aaid the good gentleman ', ' one ia enongh for nie. The other two jewels ahall remain to become your pride and joy, the atay and comfort of yöur age, my poarl of grandmothera.' He took the youngest of the three ctnldren by the arm and drew him gently from the other two. 'Now, granny,' be said, ' rem em l.i er onr conditions. I im to take thiB boy and you are not to follow bim up, or to aeek out wbere be is, or to molest him in any way. Ee goea out of your hands «ltogether. In return I take him and bring him up at my own expense, and I give you for bim five pounda — äve golden soveraigns.' 1 Right, Sir. And if you'll take the other two as well ' 1 What is his name, did you aay 1 ' 'We call him Sainmy.' ' Bammy — not as yet a aon of the Church : cot Samuel ; not baptised, I presume ?? Quite so — Bammy, or Sam. And his 1 His father'a name waa Stanley.' ' Stanley. A good old name. The excellent man ia now — whare ia that fnther, now ? ' ' How should I know ? On the road, aomewhere, he ia. He left her/ ' Her 1 His wife, perhapa f ' ' 8he was my daughter,' the good lady replied, perhaps with evasion — ' and ahe's dead. She died in the London Hospital and left the three kida to me. He's away aomewhere in the country.' ' That was hard lipon you. "Well, this little Prince haa a right royal inhoritanoe. His grau dm other is — yourself. His father ia one of the Nomada who love the black tent and the Cl caravan. Hismother ieanunknown factor. I should his inberitance, if he ever comes to his own, will be the t 8 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S Vice of all the ages. Lucky litüe devil I Could I have a bettat Hubject 1 ' The woman lieft rd but underatood not. 1 Well, old lady, here'a the money.' He opened hie pnrae and took out live aovereigna. She lield out her band greeiüly. ' Stop ! ' he said. ' Remember the conditiona." 'I'll keep them true. I will, a'elp me.' ' ShI ' — she had followed the gentleman to the door and waiched bim down the etreet — ' Sei,' »he cried, ' cojne up quick. Go alter the swelL Find outwhcre he goea. Don't let bim eeo you, Run after bim if it ia to the end of the worliL If you dare to come back without finding wbere he takea the boy, I'U ' A mere threat, howevor vigoroua and terribls, only demandi the recognition of history when it hae been actnally carried out. Thia threat was not carried out. For cight yeara of age Hai was remarkably clever and füll of resource. She followed the gentlemen along Commercial Street to Shoreditch ; here he called a four-wheelcr, which drove off briakly towarda the City. The giri's knowledge of Spitalfiekla and Bethnal Green — an intricate maze ofstreets — waa profound, conaidering her youtls, but of the City ahe knew nothing. And here ae tbe orowd grew thickar and it waa difficult to rnn on the pavement and keep a watch on the cab, she took the opportunity of a atoppage and olimbed up bebind. Tbe people hurrying »long Citywards were all, at that hour of tbe moming, namely, between eight and nine o'clock, the young ladies end gentlemen einployed in the City ahops : the boys MMng them too diapirited, tbinking of the day's work before them, to remind a cabmen of n out behind : Sal thercfore remained undiaturbed. The cab went down Biahopsgate Street and Graceehurch Street : it turned weatward at Cannon Street : at Queen Street it turned again to the aouth and crossed the river by Southwark Bridge. On tbe other aide it presently turned to the rigbt into a regton of Hmall atreets, with mean houaea atanding among great factoriea. In one of tbese streets it stopped. Sei alid down quiekly and retreated to the ahelter of a neighbouring lamp-poat, wbere, half hiddcn, ahe could watch. When the gentleman had gone into the honae and the cab had driven away, the child left her lamp-post and esauiined at her eaae both houae and atreet. Tbe house waa eaay to ramember. It was of two Btories, with three Windows at the top, and two below : tbe door between the two was not an ordinary door, but set back in a broad frame with two ahort pillara, not forming a porch but Hat witb the front of the honae. They were pillura of the Dorio Order, and BEFOFE THE FLA Y BEGINS the girl noted tbeir shape though ahe knew not its nune. The house was freshly painted- — a very noticeable point when one looked around. And there was a brass plate on the door — ihn girl could not read, yet ehe could reiueinber the apj>ettrance of the letters— they announced that^ Roben Luttrel, M.D., lived, and presumably practised the seien ee cf healing, in that houue. When Sa] had thorou/;hly mastered these dc-tnils, and was quite certain that she woidd know the houee agnin immediately and without the least hesilation, ahe turncd her attention to the Street. First of all, it was unlike any etreet she had over eeen in the Quarter familiär to her. A atreet in Saulhwark may be mean, and so fnr may resemble a sti'eet in Spitaltields ; bat in me&imess there are shaiies and variations. Thia Etreet had several houses which callod aloud for paint and washing, bat they were not like the houses ehe knew : it had also two great Works whero steamhammers wero already practising thair trade; at the end was a yard, belonging to other works, and in the yard were three or fuur great treos : there was also, though the ediflce conveyed no meaning to the chitd of nature, a Church ; and, though thia fact escaped her attention, it was as profoundly ugly aa they made them forty years ago. The other end ' gäve ' upon the river. The ohüd went to look at it. She had never betöre seen the rivor, and in fact knew uot whethor it waa the river Tbames or the river Oceanus which runneth round the world: there were borges on it, aome with rnasts and some withoat; there was a steamer or two plying on the stream; aoross the river there was a great buildrng, the biggeat the clnld had ever She noted aU these things, anä then ehe addroased herseif »ariously and with the conntenance of a responsible person to the task of getting back to Sweet Lilac Walk, To tbose chDdren of luxury whose senses have never been sharpened by the goad of daily necesaity, the task wonJd have been imposaible. Thia girl, ho wc vor, had remarked on hör way that the cab followed one line soutb, and anotber west,anda thirdsouthagain: she had noted the houses when they turaod. Therefore you will under- stand why she made straight for home on her return, as surely as an Indian in the forest finds bis way by the marks he has made on the trees. It was perhnps part of her inheritaneo that ahe sbould thua be able to find her way in a labyrinth of an- known streets. I dare say ehe would have had no more diffi- culty througb. the Hackest fog that ever feil upon the nnhappy city. More than this, she afterwnrds, with the greatest ease, conduoted to the Spot her grandinother, who could not read, any more than herseif, bat who noted with care both the brass plate and the appearanee of the etreet and begged of a resident to know its name. These items of knowlodge the good lady trea- I 001 the Bat 10 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S »tired up in her heart. They were things which might some day l>e oonverted, as all kinda of knowledge are every day niagically coii v«rted, into a rod and a staff for her decliniug years. If von had Inoked into the house wich the Doric pillars »bout eight o'clock that Barne evening you would have seen the boy called Saininy sittmg on the hearlhrag between Dr. Lnttrel and another. They oecupied each an armchair beside the fire and wore oontamplating the child— one, with the pleasurable curio- aity which attaches to a Subjcct ; the other, with nndisguised loathing for a oreature bo horribly ugly. His new dress, in fact, müde bis ugliness the more roiuarkablo. He had been washed in a frub : hu hair had been eut short ; hie rags had been east into a raging roaring furnaeß : he was dreased in a pretty garb of navy blue, including a jumper, a lanyard with a knife at the end of it, and knickerbockers. He had eaten during the day three Square maala. He was aleepy ; bot he looked from one to the other with the watohful and suspicious eyes of a wild crea. ture, ready at the least movement to eprmg to hia feet, to fly, to bite, or to kick. Presently, however, his head began to roll and nod ; his eyelids began to drop; hia Shoulders to Swing nn- steadily ; and he sank upon the hearthrug asleep. 'This,' said the Doctor, 'is going to be an experiment of the grenteat interest.' ' Is it ? ' replied the other. ' Meanwhile, the boy is lue seine dreadful dream in a niglitmare.' • He is, he is. That is one of the moat interesting points in the Situation. Not only doea le look the part, but he actB it, for the preeent, quite naturally. He steals; he lies; he swears. Why not? He belonga to a race conapicuoua for demoniae possession. I bought him for five pounds of bis grandmother, I have learned eome particulars concerning that dear old lady's family. Her grandfather, n, gipsy, is immortalised in the "Annual Register " for the year 1816. He was hanged outeide Newgate for a parücularly brutal murder committed on the body of a foreigu sailor at W&pping. Ab for her father,who was alinoat as illuatrious, he died in esilo at Botany Bay, in the year 1880, after a brilliant oareer of pig and sheep lifting; the lady Iieraelf bas slways been a tbief and the associate of rogues, vagabonds, gipsies, tinkers and tramps; ber daughter, now deeeaaed— the motber of this boy — was apparently of the same kiduey. The pedigree on the maternal side, therefore' — the Doctor Iaughed and rubbed his handa— 'promisea remarkably well. Something ought to come out of that. On the other side, I confess, we are not so rieh ; we have little to go upon beyond the Cardinal faot that the father, like the motber, was a gipsy. But the son of a gipsy may become anythmg. Through how iny generationa of outlaws and Wanderers hns tho blood of this ooy been running? ' 1 You propose, then, to conqner and eradicate these hereditary 'Not at alL I shall malte them stepa by which he ahall mount. 1 The Doctor leaned forward and Epoke with great ?eriousness. ' I have long wiahed, my friend, for such an ex- periment aa ia now before nie. I have dcsired a mind to mould according to my own views. Impatience of authority is heredi- tary with this boy : I espect it will rille him aa it ruled his fore- fathera ; but in his case it will take a nobler form : it will enable him to act and to tlänk for hiinself. Tho poverty of pnst gene- rationa will inspire him with dissatisfaciion and a craving for thinga. His ancestora never had enouga of anything ; they Craved for food and drinli. Thia boy will inherit the craving. rat not for food : he will desire, beyood measure. knowledge. Again, the instinct of sülf-preeervation ia niosl strongly developed in the creatnres which arehunted. Thia boy'speople have been hunted for hnndreds of years. He will thercforo inherit the instinct, strongly developed, of anspicion or watehfulneas. But he will underatand that the buhest applicntion of thia instinct ia to the advance of freedom and humanitj.' * Oh I ' said his eotnpaniun, doubtfully. 'Then, again, none of his peoplo have ever known morality, honour, truth, religion, or any of the virtuea which we were taught in childhood.' ' You will teach him these thinga ? ' 1 Not at all. I aball only put him in the way of Icaming them. He will learo thera for himaelf. He will deduoe for him- aelf, from hia own Observation, that the happinosa and the safety of the individual, as well as the Community, depend upon the observance of these virtnes b.y himself and oy hia friends. He will perceive that lio must give as well as take, in order to secura the posaibihty oi' getting and the security of having. Then there will gradunlly spriug up in his niind a Natural Religion oa which, if he pleases, he may buüd any ecclesiastical atructure that he may adniire. In all these thinga he will be quite free.' 1 And meantime— — ? ' ' Meantime he will be watehed nntil he lose hia pre- aent habita of stesling and lying. They will gradually drop off.' ' Humph I Tet I doubt.' 1 Ton, Clement, are a poet.' The other blushed with irrepreasible pride. ' An nnsuccessfid poet,' he murmured. Anybody may be unsuccessful, but to be a poet happena to few. Somehow, like tho child, he looked the character, having soft blue eye«, a gentle voice, and an im- THE BELL OF ST. PA UL'S praetical muriner, to say noüiii ig of bcautiful brown curla and a long lieard as glossy as ailk. ' Yet a poet. You have read, as well as written, Teams of stuff about ae real applied to lifo as tha coloura of aonrisa over Natnre.' ' Nothing is real except these coIootb.' ? Well, thia boy ahall read none of these things. He shall not become a aentimentalist : be sball be brought up in no illu- siona. He sball learn froni the first the bare, nnked trutb in everything. For instance, according to you and to your friends, neu are always doing the moat hsroic and aelf-denying things.' ' So they are — some of them.' 1 According to me, they are alwaya trying to eat np each other and fighting to prevent tbemselveü frorn being eaten np. I shall teach this boy from tha beginning to regard every other man as a possible devourer.' ' Poor little devil I ' Said tha nnsuccessful poet. ' Of conrsc he shall be inade a Physicist. I shall send him to a German University. If he imbibea a thirst for science, and if I aucceed in making hit>i aee thinga cloarly without the veil which hange before most men'a eyes, he will have a great career before him. The man without a Veil : tho man without Prejudice : the man who ean aee clearly— think of tbat I ' ? Again — poor little devü I ' said the unsymputhetic Maker. ' Then, about thia hideona face of hia. I know two men — both now old. They are brothers : they were originally oxactly alike. One of them haa given up bis lifs to science, the other haa been peddling in smrdl trade all hia days. The face of the first brother ia füll of nobility and of atrength : the face of the other ia mean and low. Now look at this little wretch.' He atooped and rolled over tho sleeping head. ' In twenty years the wild-beast ayes will be steadied with thought and learning: the nose will have emergcd : thechoeka wülhavefilled out : the ugly wide mouth will have cootracted. Out of a mere savage, common and brutal, of the lowest type, I shaU hwra madea apeci- men of manhood, such as there are few. He ahall be a gentle- man, thoagh with no gentle blood in hia veins : a acholar, an artist, and a physicist. And he shall look as well as play the pari. He shall have a face — not like this wretched degraded type which bis father and ruother have given him ; but a face which beloogs to such a man as he will be.' 'I doubt,' hia friend repeated. 'Are you still going to call him Sammy Stanley ? ' ' No, He must be cnt off altogether from hia own peopie i he ?hall never know whenoe he came or to whom he belongs. He shall bear my surname, and I shall call him m; Eon. As for Christian nuse, now — what shall I call h im ? ' 'Give 'Vcty Be : Et BEFORE THE PLAY BEGINS 13 Give him one that will do for either event — failure of ' Very good. What shall it be ? Not John or George. Say Bernard, Bertram, Guy, Harold, Oliver." ' Call hirn Oliver.' ' I will. Oliver LnttreL Sleep on, Oliver, unmindful ol 1 on, Oliver Lnttrel, late Sammy Stanley.' OHÄPTER n, i SUN3ET ON BANK SI the evening of the longest day in all the year. For once asion— which is too often neglected — was reeognised and honoured. There had been ordered, at the Weather Office, a day of aky bo doudless and blue, with annähme so warm and air so soft, that all the Italian organ-grinders feil faint and sick with nostalgia, and Bat down on the kerb while the women did the work for them : and those etrangere who were newly arrived froui New York, Melbourne, Paris, or St. Petersburg, asked if this was truly the City of Perpetua! Fog. And sicco it is gen«, rally the practice of the Englifih day, if it begina with sunshine, to end in cloud, it was for this occasion spocially enjoined, nnder penalty of the Office and all the Clerks being transferred to Labrador, that the evening should, until the very sotting of the Sun and afieT, continue clear, bricht and boautiful. About a quarter-past eigtit 011 this day a young man waa leaning over the wooden wall of the old, firat, and original — for many years the only— Embankment, ealled Bank Side, watching the river and the City on the other side. He atood at that apot — it is on the west of Southwark Bridge, where there are Stairs. They are not ancient Stairs: they are not thoae at which the Elizabethan Citizens landed to eee the matinee at the Globe, to catch a fieeting raptuie at the Baiting of the Bear, or to make love among the winding walla of Paris Gardens. Fonnerly there were no Stairs belween thosc of Mold Strand on the west, and Saint Mary Overies on the east. These Stairs are mere modern thinga eonatructed in the laat Century. But some tlioughtful Resident, ancient or modern, haB caused to be bullt above them a sniall pen, enclosure, or fold, fumished with two wooden benches, capable of holding at least four persona, and forming a gazebo or belvodere from which to view the river and to take the air. This young man had bo luckily diesen hifi time ' was ao singularly fortimate in the day, that he had before eyea quite the moat niaguilicent Spectacle that the world " 14 TUE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S »fforda. Owing to the aina of London this splendid show is seldom indeed vouchsafed: and no man ia injbnnad befort-hand, not even tue Meteorological Prophet, when it is going to be per- formed. Again, the places where one can Ret a really ßne view of it are so fow and for the most pari so inaccessible— who knoweth, for inatance, the way from Piocadilly to Bank Side 1 — that the greater number are hindered even if they wiahed to aaaist at the representation. And lastly, the lime for which the Pageant is fixed is, dtiring the summer, inconveniently connected with the dinner-hour. For all these reasona there is never any crowd to see the Show, and the newspapers never send a re- porter. Tat those who have been privileged to behold it go »bout for the rest of their Uvea declaring that there is no place like London for such a Spectacle ; that the mist and moisture of the air cause the colours to be innre splendid, and their infinite variety and change more wonderful, than in any ollier spot upon the world: and that no Transformation Hcene was ever preaented to an audience, even at the Laue, which can coinpare with the effeote protlucod by Naturo'B own seenc-painter. They are simple and massive, yet they are conlinually varying; there are no colours known to the artist like unlo those which show in the West for a moment and then pass into aomething different yet as beautiml ; no pigment was ever yet made which could represent them : they have no name : they have never been imüated in silk, satin, jnte, llai, or clotn of gold : and as they Vary and change from one moment to the next, advaneing in splenäou» as the aun sinks lower, they form such a pageant as would bring tears to the eyes of the oldest Acsulernieian if he ever saw it — but he does not, being entirely oecupied with the painting of portraits. The sight and the aplendour of it would alrfo cause the most coneeited young poet, if he ever did see it — but he does not, being oecupied wholly with Society — to oreep softly and limply out of the press, and away from the Company of man, for fear he ehouM be asked to describa these glonea in iini[ii»rtal verse. Where the yonng man stood, if ha looked down the river he could see, close at hand, South wark Bridge, and, beyond it, tbe ngly Railway Bridge running into the ugly Railway Station: both together ehut out the view of all that lay beyond — London Bridge and the Tower and tha maets of the ships in the Pool. Even the most splendid Bimset oannot make the Cannon Street Terminus beautiful. But if he looked up the river he saw, first, Blaekfhars Bridge, Standing out with eharp, clear lines, as if eut out ofblack cardboard; abo>ve it, the da zzling golden light of the western sky; and below it, the broad bosom of the river at the flood. The waters of the river, which under the grey sky of a oloudy day are as brown as the watera of the Arno, and even A SUNSET ON BANK SIDE \% ander the bluest sky of middsy lack the brightness of tlie Tyne and the sparkle of the Usk, now refleeted back the wandet* oi the evening, and were themselves »s splendid as the skics above. ' Then he looked across the river. Immediately opposite rose the pile of St. Paul'*, vast and maiestic — Bank Side in now the only place where you have a really good view of St. Paul's. On either side of St. Paul'* tose in leeaet glory the spire of St. Bride, the Dragon of Bow, the picnaclea of Aldermarie, the Tower of St. Michael'a, and I know not how many more of Wren'B masterpieees ; für though the Great Fire deetroyed many Churches which were cot rebuilt, and though modern barbarians have pulied down many more, London ia etill a City of Churches, and there are plenty left for those who, when the Great Beturn takes place and the mercbant* once more go back to live within the City walls, will look to worship in the old Churches after the mann er of theit forefathers. Below the Churches, on the northcrn bnnk, are the wharves and wäre- houses— PauTs Wharf, Baynard'B Castle, and the ancient Port of Queenhithe. Thia old haibour Etill retainc-th its former shape, though its buildinge, which were once low, mean, and ngly, yet picturesque, have long since been transformed into others, bigger and uglier, yet not picturesque, and even its old Church with the Golden Ship bae been wickedly deetroyed by tbe modern bar- bariana aforesaid. Below bim, floating bravely on the flood, were moored tbe broad barges which now, for their nnmber and their goodliness, make the glory of Bank Side. Not one or two are here, bot fifty or siity or a huniired, if you were to count, all of generalis tonn&ge and capacity not to be guessed. There were, Ibis even- ing, so many of them that they extended even more tlion half- way across the river. Some had maets and brown canvas sails. now furled, ready to drop down as far aa the Nore, if necessary : all were painted gftily with streaJts of red, b!ue, yellow and green : some were empty and waiting for their fraight : eome were laden, and these seeined to be carrying away all the worth- less jotsam of the City; tbey were heavy in the water with broken glase bottles : they were füll of rusty and broken iron : tbey were piled as high as tbe arohe* of the Bridge with empty Petroleum barreis. There were no gnards or watchmen on board this great Seet — the River Police pay no attention to thia marine — for who would lift a lighter ? How wonld one dispose of a stolen bärge ? Whut poor wretoh is there in all the wotld flunk so low as to fill his knavish pockets with broken glase ? And on all thoae thinga alike — for the sun, whether the sun in Splendonr, or the eun at his setting, knows no differences and halb no favourites— on the Dome and Upper Windows and the Ball and Cross of Paul's, on the Dragon of Bow, on the spirei ST. PAUL'S and weathercoeks and chimney-pols : on the warehouaea, which in the white light of noon make bot a dingy show, 011 the clurnsy bargen with thcir brown sails, lay the splendour of the Bimset, so that all was illuminated and transformed : the spirea were flam.es of fire : the Towers belonged to sonie Castle of Phantasy : the warehousea were of precioue marble, all purple and crimeon, or veined and streaked witli colour, grandar than anypalaoes of Venice : the barges were ships of fairyland : and the river, ra- flecting the glory of the sky, rolled along in a broad and glow- ing flood finer even than the Grande Canale when the Italian Bunaet lies upon its waters and painta its marble stairs. For the Birn of ltaly is not so soft, and linder the sky of Italy there lack the mists which in England asHume euch depth and chann of colour. 1 Veaterday,' said the yonng man, ' it was all so gloomy and grey that it made ono trembla and abndder, To-day it is trans- formed. Oh I it is like Borne poet'e vision." He was, for his part, neither painter nor poet : he had no kaowledge, save from books, of Venice and its palaces ; there- fore he oould not make the coropariBon indicated aiiove. There was nothing like Thames above bridge in the city of his birth or in the country to which he belonged. That city was Sydney, aad that country was New South Wales in AuBtralia ; and this was only the second day of hia first visit to London. Only hia second day. And yet he was actually standing on Bank Side, Southwark, at a quarter-past eight in the evening, looking at the Bimset, instead of sitting in the stalls listaning to ths overture of an Opera Bouffe. No other Colonial haa ever so mach as visited this spot : vory fow even of the rtatives of thia great city know of it : yet thia was only his second evening, and he was here watohing the Bimset. One would think that he had come all the way from Australia to See a sunset. Once there was a New Zealander who came to visit the land of his ances- tors. He was persuaded to take np hia quarters at a hotel in America Square. He stayod there for three montbs. Not an amusement was there throughout Batchffe, Shadwell, Wapping and Poplar but he found it out and took hie fill of it. Then he retumed home, satiated with the pleasureB of London. He confesaed that for the rest of his lii'e — thank yon — he would want no more of London'« pleasures. Laurenca Waller— this was the name of the yonng Australian, and he was the son of no less a Personage than Sir David Waller, K.C.M.G., Premier of New South Wales — knew more than this. Vet, for a reaeon, he had taken a lodging on Bank Side, and thia was to be his first night in that lodging. He was not a conspirator : he was not a social reformer ; he was not collecting statistios or facta ; he was not compiling a A SUNSET ON BANK SIDE 17 boolt on the lower levels : lie had no theorioa to defcnd : he even disliked ihe lower levels, and luvcd s ueU-behnved inan and a welldressed girl vevy, vevy miich better than those who nre roughly mummd and IH-d*es»e& He was a rieh young man : he was as fond oft&king liia pleusure asunvotherwell-regulatad young man ; aud ha found hie plcasurc in much the same pur- BnitB : that is to aay, he loved to ride, shoot, act, Bing, play erieket, Bit out with a pretty eiri, d-ui(.>o with hei*, walk with her, talk with her. He also loved to Bit at his club and talk to the men. And yet he ivjis mi Bank Si-lo. WIilu uii- In? doing there ? Laurents Waller was in etat iure somenhat taller than the nverage Englishnian, and rather moro slightly built : Ins face, aunburnt froui a long voyage, ma unmistakably F.nglish.lhougb. I suppose that Australia will develop her own types of face for herself in the courae of a few innre generations — ehe miist, if she respects herself. Clearly it was a cheerful face, belon ging to a yonng man who has no quarr el at all with the world, and as yet haB found no cause of coinplaint as to thegeneral manage- meut of mankind at large, or his own personality in pai'tieular : a face whieh inspired confidence in old ladies, young ladies, women who are not ladies, in chüdren and in doga ; but cot in betting men, welshera, and those who praotiae the Confidence Lay. Yonng- gentlemen who walk as if they were aecuatomed to rely on themselves, and carry tbeir hands ae if they knew how to nse them as fists, do not attract these honest tradesmen. Eis hair was of a not unuBual brown, and his features were regulär enough not to mar his expression. His age was well within the twentiea. Since the whole of the world that iaworth anything at all — love, friendship, ambition, hope, enthusiasm, goöd digestion, strength, and fighting power — bclong eBsentially to the twenties, he ought on that aecount alone to be enor- monsly envied by all who have paased into the thirtiea, or — poor beggara 1 — even beyond. Tliis said, it aeema an unllecea- aary detail that he possesaed somewhat remarkable eyes : they wereeyeaofa olear, dark blue: eyes which were pereeived at once, even by the most shallow oliserver, to be capable of con- taining and of reflecting a good deal of ligbt : auch as the light of laughter, the hght of generous wrath, the light of pity, the light of aympathy, the light of entbratiasni and the light of love. It is by auch lights that Australia will be advanced. One does not dann for this young man special merit on aecount of his eyes. Many young men betray these emotion? in a aimilar manner. On the other hand, some young men never bang out any auch aignals, perhapa beeause they Feel these thinga imper- Laurence preaently turned from the river and looked at tha place itaelf where he was standing. tat Bank Side is not & fasLuonable promenade, It doea not poBBeas any of tho popularity which belongB to the milch grander South Einbankinent higher up the river— that which runs from Westniinstor to Yauxhail, and is adorned first by St. Thomas's Hospital — which inclines Che heart of the working man to works of benevolence ; and noxt by Lambeth Falace, which, on account of ita venerable appearance, makea bim for the moment tolerant of orthodoxy. Bank Sido, again, never haa been fashionable. Many parta of London have at une tiroe 01 the other belonged to the great world : there wäre Royal Palacea at Baynard'B Castle ; at Tower Royal ; at Cold Harbour, and at St. Bride'a; there werepalaces in the Strand ; illuatrioua poople lived in Drury, and great nobles in Soho. Onoe there was a Biahop'a Palace at Bank Side, but eo long ago that the very memory of it haa gone long since, and people have forgotten how a certain atreet there has guttea its nume. There was a period — it only lasted twenty yeara or ao — when the people came across from Paul'a Wharf and Queen Bithe to the Faleon Stairs to see Shakespearo'a new play at the Globe, the Sivun, or the Rose. Then the place was inhabited by the player ful!;, who drank, and saug, and revcOed, and laughed. and quarrelled, and fought in the taverna which Etil! — aome of them — stirvive in obscure oouita and comora of thia forgotton place. The players had, for the most pari, ahort livea, but they were merry : their frienda were the poeta and such as loved poetry. Their manners and niorals were deplorahle : their wivea and mis- tresses were as disrepu table ae tMmselvM, and were constanlly getting ducked for their yuarrela and their jealousies and their noisy tongues. Now they all he buried in the churchyard of St. Saviour's, formerly St. Mary Overy. When the theatrea were built aeross the rivtr. tl ic [Oftyi -rs und the poets exchanged Bank Side for Portugal Street; and presently even the Clink itsebf, where bo many of the poor players had been laid by the heels, was pulled down. There was no longer any use in keeping up the Clink. The young man, then, turning fi-om the rivor, conaidered for a moment the old Embankment with its wooden walls and the lwiiw. 1 » lii!'!t!:; ii. The hl. Mi iiitamd with coüs of rusty ohain and bite of rusty machinery. There were cranea for the hoisting of tliings in and out of the barges ; there were staira to the water; there were planks lying in poaition for the wheel- barrows between the Embankment and the barges : on the other aide of the road were gutes leading to faotories, works, an I wharves. Between the gales were one or two pnblic-houses of a qrüet kind, such ae Legless Tom — the Dominio's Dux, in Jacob Faithful '? — might have frequented : a ehop or two of a marine or rtautical description, and a few private bousss, Ths A SUNSET OS BANK SIDE lißht of Bimset feil lipon thia place, whiah at other times is cer- tBJnly dingy, as well as upoa tbe river, and made it look beauti- ful and mysterioua. It ia generally unknown who iire tbe private residents of Bank Side : if a man wiahed for perfeet re- tirement, a place whero bis frienda would never thirdt of look- ing for bim, where he could breathe the freahest air to be fonnil in all London, ho could not do better than to take one of thea» hou&es — there ara not many— and live in it. Retirenient ha would have ; but as for quiet, one would not promise him that, because the works, and the cranea, aud the yohoing of the barge- men would dopriva luin of the Ius.ury for fourtepn hours out of the twenty-four. But, within oue of these private houaes, he would be as retired as ia the heart of the great African Desert. By eight o'clock in the evening, however, work ia over on tha Bank : the voiees of those who yo-ho on the bargea are Bilent : there ib no more rolling of empty caaka or hoiating of crates füll of hroken glass ? the paying out of chains haa ceased : tha hammering at the Stcam Bodor works has Btopped ior tha day : the Viuegar yards are deaerted : the workmen have left even the public -housea, which stand open but have no cnatorn : and Bank Side ia left for the refreshinent of those private folk who may chooao to come here for tbe tasting of the i'resh air. Two or three, in fact, were Walking to and fro or lounging on tha wooden wall whieb proteeta the Bank from the river. Tha Australian atranger, obaerving these people, became aware — although be was a stranger and an Australian tbe thiog Struck riim as incongruoua — that thoy wert, aomehow, gentlofolk. No- thing had prepared him fot gentlufotk in Bank Side, rieither bis fir6t Impression of the prcvioua evening wheri he engaged hia lodgings, cor a certain doonment in bis pocket which bad brought him there. Two of them, who walkod together, were men advaaced in yearB— though atill vigoroua. They passed him once, twice, in sdeDoe. As he looked after them he obaerved that they re- mained ailent. Therefore he right-ly concluded, they must be habitaal companions. Ünly men whoknow each other well are ailent when they walk together. That ia the true companion- ship of the soul when oue om follow out, undisturbed, a line of thought, ready to stop at a word from the other, or to reeeive a Suggestion from him for tbe fiirtharance of that line. One of them was a tall man, but narrow shouldered and atoopmg. He wore a brown velvet jacket and a feit hat : hia long white hair Sowed in curla over hia coat collar and hia white beard flowed over hia shirt front. His jacket was old and, as an old friend should, it clung tightly to the arma and to the figore : hia trouaers had acquired a certain awelling of the knee— a dieotder or deformity which is the terror of yoimg men who love to go THE BELL OF ST. in dainty raiment yet have a Blender purse. This gentleman, therefore, was not rieh. As for the velvet jacket, the broad feit hat. and the long white locks, they looked liko outward signa and professional aiiornmentB, like the epaulettes of a Naval Offioer, or like the liiilliTlWWKil'B apron. These signa may ba asaumed by the impostor. But the impostor cannot assume a face of delicaey, finely cut and lined, whiob marks the life of cultnre and lof'ty thought : nor oan the impostor at nixty years of age clear his eyes of the crows-feet and bis inouth of the deep trenchea which betray long years spent in greed and gobbling and money-grubbing. 'An artist,' aaid the yonng man, wondering that an artist shonld be found on Bank Siile wandering aboüt, an if he was an kabituS. ' Clearly. an artist. But, perhapB, only a photographer." The man by bis aide wore a hiack frock coat and the tall hat common to the City and the West End. There was a certain oonfidence in hie walk ! he earried bis stick as if he would use it as a weapon of offence on small provocation : his head was thrown back : his black be&rd, streaked with grey, looked as if it was not going to turn quite grey without a struggle : he ad- vanced one leg as he walked, somewhat like the knave of eluba, but with less OBteutation. ' Looks like a solioitor,' said the yonng man. ' Yet a soli- eitor on Bank Side 1 May be, however, a Book Agent — or a Tout — or a Temperance Lecturer. Both of them here, perhaps, because they are down on their luck.' He eame from a country where it is not unoommon to meet with gentlemen newly arrived from England, down on their luck. Here there are also many taab m n, but tln.y shrinkfrom Observation. Formerly, gentlemen down on their luck found tliemselves in tbe long run conifortably scttled in the King'a Benoh or in ita Bules, where there was abundance of good com- pany with the tradition of mirth and jollity. Both King'a Bench and the Bules having been abolished, there is now no recog- nised Ketreat. Yet in theae days there are so many gentlemen down on their luck that there must be, somewhere, a colony or settlement of them living retired in some suburb, whither their nid acquaintance will not follow them, I have sometimes thought of Dalston as a likely spot — there is none likelier : it ia oleon, airy, and remote from Pall Mall : there is no obtrasion or oatentation of wealth — it is not noisy and vnlgar: yet, sofar, my reeearches have not resulted in the proof that Dalston poa- sesses such a colony. Some day it will as certainly be found as the present looation of the Ten Tribes. Wb.cn found, it will prove to be a ourious colony, preservmg many of the manners, onstoms. commonplaces and jokes which belonged to tho feahionable worid when the colonista retired into obscurity. A SUN SET ON BANK SWE On the Fourth tiiue of paasing, one of the two was speaking. 1 will be President of the Royal Society, I teil you. Yet something troubles the boy. He ahould be triumphaut, and he is uiieaay. At his age ' ' Do Presidents of the Boyal Society come &om Bank 8ide, I Wonder ? ' murinured Laurenc-e. ? Tet, why not ? ' They passed on their way and out of his hearing. Besidee, it ia nieau for any one, eicept a Novclist, to baten in the streit. Theo Laurence saw, Standing at the open door of the houso opposite — quite the eloaneat and nioat reapeetable honse on Bank Side— a person of spare and alight figure, with a head one or two sizea too large for hia height. This is a defeot by no meana common. His face was smooth and yonng, yet hia hair was gray. Ä large nose, assiated by a self-respecting carriage, gave him an air of quiot dignity. Hia dress included a black frock coat buttoned, a tall hat wost carefully bruehed, and an um- brella tightly rolled in ita ailk case. He alao carried a pair of kid gloves. No part of bis dreaa waa in ita firat youth, or even in ita early manhood, bnt the whole of it taken together con- ferred npon the wearer that now aimoat obsolete quality which used to be called Primneaa. The Prim man may linger still in old-fashioned counting-houaes— I know one in a Bank — bnt ha haa beeoine so ra.ro that the younger folk havc lost knowledge of his kind. Lesser officiais of all kinds, fifty years ago, affected Primneas as a part of that Personal Dignity whieh haa been since so largely lost. ' Here ia LueiuB,' aaid Laurence, sigMng. ' My dear mother, I hope you are eatisfied, so far.' It was, in fact, none othar than Mr. Lucius Cottle himself, whoae lodger the young man had that day become. He deseended the two door-steps with aa much dignity aa if they had been the staircasa of a Venetian Palazzo, and aa alowly as if he had at his own disposal all the time there is. ' Take off that coat of yours,' said hia lodger. ' Give yon a swallow-tail with black silk smalls and atockinga and a bunch of gold seala at your fob — and yon"d do for Charles Lamb. Put you into a velvet coat, with a flowerad waiatcoat and a powdered wig, and give you a anuff-box- — and you'd do for — for — Oliver Goldsmith himself, or the whole of the eighteenth Century.' It is popularly auppoaed, thanks to Mr. Fraed and Mr. Austin Dobson, that the eighteenth Century was a period of profound repoee and universal leisure. Ab a matter of proae it waa crammed füll of hurry and buatle, driving and goading, sweating and oppressing, cursing and kicking, beating, euffing, and impriaoning. Everybody who waa in aervice of any kind had to hurry up all day long, and the day was then very mach longer than it is at preaent, Had Mr. Lucios Cottle, for THE BELL OF ST. PA WS csaiuple, lived in the last Century, he would liave descenflecl tlioso stepB ftDd gone about hia buainess with a surprifiing »Jacrity. 1 He ought to be a Justice of the Peace,' Said Laurenoe, ' or the Proprietor of a Pill.' When Mr. Lucius Cottle had sccomplished the desccnt of the stepa he looked np and down Bank Side with a criticnl air of ownership. So the eountry gentleman anrveys bis stablea and hia gardens. Then he tin-ned and contcmplated the houae — thie at least was hia own— with infinite pride. Certainly the liiighlost, the most recently painted, and the cleaneat on tha wbole Enibankment. It was eveu provided with a Virginia oreeper, now rapidly becoming green with its first ahootB of spring. There were denn white curtains to all the Windows: tha iron railtngs in the front were clean : the windows were bright: the brass knocker a.nd the handle were pohshed: the door-stepa were white : and on the door there was a brass plaie as bright as a min-or, on which was engraved, in largo black letters, the nauie, ' Mr. Cottle.' 8ome brasa platea might have announeed' Cottle' — short; or 'LuciusCottle ; ' or ' Mr. Lucius Cottle.' There is, however, e, simple greatnesa in ' Mr. Cottle,' as if all the world ought to know him and sbotdd speak of him rospceifully, and shouhlbe glndto betold where he hved. When he had looked up and down, he eroaaed the road daintily, as one who goeth in white ailk atuckinga, 'You ouglit,' aaid Laurence, ' to have white silk stoekings to set-of[ your thin legs. You were born for them.' 'Goodevening, Mr. Waller,' he said, giving his hand. 'You havedone well, Sir, in Coming to Bank Side.' He spuke slowly, as if his worda were valuable. ' Here we breathe.' He es- panded hie ehest and waveii hia hands. ' Here we catch the pure breoze fresh from the Gennan Ocean. If tbis place were generally known, thoae who now live in Eaton or in Berkeley Square woidd gladlv exchange with us who live upon the Bank.' Lwrenea w pp r öwwd u IVivoloua romark about a run upon the Bank, and wondeied whether euch an exokange would be afterwardd considered quite fair to both partiea. ' When you came to me loat night, Mr. WaOer,' Mr. Cottle went on, ' you referred me to a very rtsspeetable firm — in the I<ower Branch. Their aeaurancea made me resolve to aeeept the responsibility of reeeiving you as my tenant. You are m Englaiüi, llii-y l.ulil me, on huainess.' ' On businesB, Mr. Cottle.' 'You are yourself alao, perhapa, in the Law — in the Lower Branch ? ' ' No, I am not, I am sorry to aay, in the Law at all — not even on its Loweat Brauch.' •Well I hope, at Soor buai A SUNSET ON BANK SIDE 93 *WeIl:we cannot, unhappily, all belong to the ProfeKi I hope, at least, that your Btay may be pleaaant to you, and that your buaioess may be sntisfnctory.' He waved his hand with an old-fiwhioned ge sture, 'You will find tnueh that is interesting in the Quarter. As for ourselves, we are, I believe, the oldeat Family of Bank Bide.' ' Dear ms,' said Laurence, smiling pleaaantly. ' The oldeßt Family of Bank Side I For my own part, I only belong to one of the youngest in New Sonth Wales.' ' "We have livod here, Sir, for one hundred yeare. Eiaotly a hundred yoars ago my grandfather, whoae origin ia unknown, commenced schoolmaster in that very houae. The Academy was carried on after hia decease— he was boried in Ctobb Bones Yard— by my father for forty years with great distinction. Viceaimue Cottle, indeed, ia the only English author, ainca Shakespeare, who haa adorncd Bank Side, You are aoquainted, Sir, with Cottle'a " Practica! liloc-utionist " ? ' The young man murmiired Bomething. He feit that in aome important pointa his education had besä neglected. Yet he had taken Honours in the UniverBity of Sydney. The Colonial, on his Srat viait home, often experiences tbis feeling. What ia the uae of the best education that the Colony afforda — they pretend it to be aa good aa any to be had in Great Britain— if auch gapa are left ? Why had no one taught him that he must purchase, and diligently peruse, Cottle'a ' Practical Elociitionbt ' 1 ' The work,' Mr. Cottle told hkn with aeverity, ' waa eompoaed or compiled in the houso where you will tliia evening aleep. You are an AuBtralian : which may explain and eieuse your ignorance. The name of Cottle haa not yet— it would appear— reacbed your ehores. Tlüs ia Strange ; bat it is on ita way, Sir. It ia on its way there.' * Perhaps it bas already crosaed the Line, by thia time.' ' You Bhall have an opportuuity, Mr. Waller, while you are with ua, of studying that Coliection.' Laurence mnrmured his gratitude. 1 The Society of Bank Side,' the little man continued with an incraase of primness, ' ia limited, it is true, but far more eelect than ie generally supposed. I learn at my Chambers that we are Bupposed to have no Society here. The Bärge and the Bank, it is believed, belong to each other. The Bärge and the Bank,' he repeated, to mark the alliteration. ' That belief, you will find, is a inistak e.' ' I asaure you, Mr. Cottle, that I have no belief or any opinionfl at all upou Ui« subject.' 1 Houaeamake not Society, nor doeeaerowdoreateeiviliflation — myfather'flobBervatkm.Sir. Someherearoworkingmen: well, Industry produee» our boasted wealth, It must thereföre be »- U THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S Bpectad. Again — my Falber. BntwehavothoLearciedProfessKiii repreaented. Thoae who form our Society are in the habit of rueeting here on warm and ßne evenings. Here we have, in tuet, establiahed an Exchange of Thought. As merchams asseinbla to exchange gooda, so do we draw together on summer eveninga to impart and receive the ideas which we conceive and form in winter. One of Vicesimiis Cottle's plane, Sir, was the formation of euch an Intellectnal Exchange, on a larger acala.' ' lndaed,' aaid Laurence, respectfully. ' Por inatanee, there ia Mr. Indiigine ' ' What 1 ' the young man stört ed. ' I know that name." ' Mr. Clement Indagino, the l'uet.' He indicated the man ia the velvet jaclset ? Oh 1' cried Lanrence, atartled. ' That ia Clement, ia it ? And he ia a poet, ia he ? I don't think I ever aaw a poet before. Clement Indagine I I hardly expected — ao aoon. Clement I Ilad he not & brother 9 ' 1 Tmly. Yoa know that 1 The brother, JLneas, went awsy a great many years ago— we were all three at achool together — and baa never eince been heard of. Mr. Indagine's companion is Dr. Luttrel, of great distinction in Science. As for nie, I am in the Law — the Higher Br&nch, Sir,' he explained with much dignity. ' Law, Foetry, and Science. Could the great Einbank- ment on the other aide boast of more ? ' Laurence laughed. He was one of thoae who laughed easily and pleasantly, and never give offence by iaughing, ' Bank Side,' he aaid, ' ia a buay place. That is evident frora the wharvea. And it haa its history. That I know. Bank Side ehould have its intcllectu&l aide, that, I confeaa, I did not suspect.' 1 We have more,' said Mr. Cottle. ? Law, Poetry, and Science, I said. The noblest virtue of mankind, aa my father haa ob- served, ia Patriotiam. The gentleinan now approaching— look at him attentively, Mr. Waller — is a distinguiahed Patriot. Hia native country is Hungary.' So that there were fonr great roen of Bank Side, at least, and all of them elderly. The distingmshed Patriot wore a flat clotri cap : hia coat waa grievoualy old nnd wom : he had on hat Slippers, wbich caused him afterdark to be mistaken for a ghost or a g&rrotter, aacording to taste or Imagination. Ha waa amall of atatnre ; hia hftir was white : ha wore no heard or moustache, and his eyea were corioualy aoft and gentle. He looked as if he muat have carried on his Patriotiam in an Upper Chamber, among the ladies. Chevalier, 1 said Mr. Cottla with a little natnral pride at having a titlod friend, ' this ia Mr. Laurence Waller, from Ana- tralia, Mr. Waller, this ia the celebrated Patriot, the Chevalier having a tralm. 1 A SUNSET ON BANK SIDS Armin ms de Heyn. He has giren hia name its English eqoiva- lent. Chevalier, present Mr. Waller with yonr Card.' While Laurenee wondered what might be the Hungarian form of ita Änglicised equivalent Do Heyn, the Chevalier politely lifted bis lünp old cap with oqo band, and with the other feit in bis breast pocket. 1 My card, Sir,' he aaid, producing a crnmpled piace of folded papsr. His voice was aa gentlo as bis eyea. ' I hope you will read it, Sir. I wiah that we ruay meet again. I have no other place to meet my friends. To those who chooaa to listen I have sometimes a great deal— oh ! — a great deal to eay. An revoir, ßir.' He again lifted his limp cap and passed od his way. On the paper which he callod bis card was printed the fol- lowingannounceinent: 'ChevalierArmiaiusG.de Heyn. K night of the Legion of St. Sauveur and of San Martino. Honorary Member of the European Philotecbnique for the Protection of the Unemployed and the Fatberleas. Author of the "Noble Plan," as challenged by Lord Salisbury. Proscrihed by the Auatrian Government. CorreBpotiding M umher of the Scientific Societies of Ecuador, Honduras, and the Argentine Republie. Lactureron the New Humanity. TTor terms apply to the Cheva- liar, care of Joseph Mayea, 183 South wart üridgo Road.' The yorag Auatralian read thie docuiuent and gasped. 1 Are there any more great mon on Bank Sida ? ' he aaked, fresently recovering. 'Lei us get through with the great man efore we go on.' 'There are the children,' Mr. Cottle replied, 'my father's grandchildren. It is reusonable to hope that his gloriea will be revived by them. We live by the Past — my father'B Observation, Sir : we live in the Presetit— is it not beautifully true ? — we live for the Future. And here come two of the children,' CHAPTEE HI OUT OF TBE SÜNBET. The stio was now on the point of sinking, and the 'Western eplendour was at its best. On either side to North and South were rolling miste threatening to elose togetber and so to spoil the show. But as yet they refrained and wäre themaelvea resplendent with borrowed glory. And then, out of the very heart of the sunBet, as it seerned, there appeared, lightly floating on a golden cloud, a litlla boat. She might have been, for the glowing ligbt aronnd, for the deep red gold of which her frame seemed to be made, and for her pair of golden oars, the Koyal gig ? THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S belonging to Cleopatra'a Bärge, in which case thaThameB wonld hai'e been the Cydnus ; or she might Luve been that very iden- tical shell which once — Heaven knowa how long agol — was wafted over the aeos at Bimset— it is iinpossible at thia diatance of time to learn whonee it cnme, who was its maker, or bow il waa propelled — to receive tha Queen of Love and Baauty rising from the waters. Heavenel Waathiaonly the turbid Thames ? Ware they only standing oni Bank Side— ehabby, mean, and common Bank Side 1 Aa this charmed vesael dröw nearer it lost eomething of its onearthly light and eolour, aad gained soniething in diatinctneea. Then one made out, distinctly, figures, which before were only spectral ahnpea of coloured light. Tbey becanie well defined, yet wore a gbostlike air. Ae the boat floated down, they aasumed the appearance of two goddesaea, or rivor nympha at least, aeated in the boat, bathed and wrapped and lapped in light and aplendour. One of them had the aculla and the other sat in the storn. Laurence gazed upon this viaion, wondering. Whcn tha boat drew near the Staira, belog still in the miiidle of the river outaide rows of tha barges, ahe who rowcd turned her haad. Sha had thrown off her hat, which lay in the bottomof the boat; the sunant painied her auhurn hair the deepeet red gold : it made a golden aureole round her head ! it made her check glow and iilled her eyes with a light thai no painter would have dared to give them : and changed her dreas, which waa of some light soft atuff, such as girla love to wear in an mm er, into a splendid eloth of gold. Nay, this light, marvel Ioub and magical, continued to lia oround her and upon her, so that, when ahe landed and ran up the Stairs, aha waa still a river nymph or a Queen instead of a piain and simple girl, and he who looked upon her for the first time trembled. The anciciita alwaya trcmLled whon they looked npon a nymph for the linst time. Love might follow, bat trembling came firat. In the days when Love and the Muses had only just baen introduced to each other, and Love waa still under the charm of thoae cold, yet gracefn] ladieH, and eschanging hia old ruaticity for sweetness and poetry and politeneas, the swains were happy in that they had these viaions aforesaid of nympha in the woods and an the river-banks and on the aea-shore. They Bang, danced, Struck the lute, bathed, played hall, and Bomotimea condeacended to permit the ßhepherd to tanke love to them. In appearance they were chicdy distmguiahed from mortal girla by the glowing light that lay upon their faces and lapped their ahining limbs. And although, in the matter of love-making, they certainly did come down to the level of short-lived man, that glow never left their limbs nor did that light -ever die out upon their faces. In "n the time to follow, Lanrence was always to aea envy Jtf.' OÜT OF THE S UNS ET lipon the head of this girl the golden aureole whioh erowned her when Erat he saw her in the Wut, Che sunsc-i füll upon her ta.ce. Now while the boat was yet aXat off.thereramenewfootstepa sJong tho walk, and Laurenee turned iiupatiently. Anothergreat man of Bank Side ? 'Ton, Oliver?' aaked Mr. Cottle, 'Ton. were nneicpeoted this evening. Your father haa not yet Rone within. Althea is out in her boat with Casaie. There are the girla ' — he pointed to the boat and called the two figurca of glory ' the girla.' ' Mr. Weiler, this is our friend, Mr. Oliver Luttrel, destined to illustrate the place where he once resided — for he haa left Bank Side — by his diseoveries in Science.' Yea. Still another great man on Bank Side, Laurenee perceived, and this time not elderly. ' Oliver, thia ia my friend, if I iirny be permitted bo to call him, Mr. Laurenee Waller, from Autitralia, who honoura na by be- Coming a temporary resident on the Bank.' Laurenee saw before him a yoimg man of his own age, hut of alighter build and k-sser sliilure. If he waa as great a man aa the others — surely Mr. Cottle ought to know so simple a thing— he waa rauch better dreased, anil in bot, he waa groorued after the manner of the young man of Piccadilly, ratber than him of the Bank — if there were any young men on the Bank. He was remarkable in personal appearance : his face was pale, and his hair was a tbick btack mat : his eyes were black and quick: his features were by no means regulär, hia mouth being too wide, and his nose too broad : yet, taken together with his hright eyes aud quick glanee, they made a atriking and mtcresliiig face. He lii'ted his hat politely. Hut in hia eyes and in hia smile there was plainly to bo read the question, ' Who the Devil are you? And what in the world has brought yon to Bank Side?' Laurenee, reading this unapuken question, wisely refrained from giving any anawer. liut Oliver continued tolook athim curiouely and suspicioualy. Who waa this new friend of Mr. Cottle's ? Why did he come to Bank Side? What did he want there? What right had Mr. Cottle to introduca the stranger to him ? When the boat tonched the St-aira, Oliver called to the girla — or the goddesses — thal he would carry up the things, and ran lightly down, and they all three laucjhed and talked aa old frienda and ooiDpanioiiB nhould. Then the girls — ot the goddeasea— monnted the wooden Staira and Oliver followed them, having tied up the boat with a painter long enough to allow for the tide, carrying the aciiila, the eusldons, and tho rudder. They aü three crossed the road to the Private Residence of Mr. Cottle. The envy, hatred, jealouay, and inalice vhieh inBtantly filled the ' «rt of the new comer waa nothing more than the tribute due the be.au ty of the girla. Any young man with a proper feeling [Dl Od THE BELL OF ST. PAULS towards the Sei would have experienced the aarne e One recorda it aolely in order to ahow that thia young man waa endoived with a proper fccling towarda the Sex. Then the ann went down, Inatantly, a little of the aplondour went out of the aky and the river : and as the miata rose and rolled togeiher, the glory of the evoning bogan alowly to depa.rt ; the eoluur and warmth and Jight to die away upon the river : the illuminationa in the upper windowa of St. PauJ's to be extinguished : the marble Palaeea to beoome commonplace warehouaca. Tho niagieian of the Evening had done his taak, and the City and the Hiver and Bank Side itself were going to bo left for the night to the hard and ugly truth, Perbaps for raany eveninga aa well, for auch a sunset ia rare indeed. And tho girla had gone indoors. And they were ia the Company of Mr. Oliver Luttrel. Oh I a great deal of eplea- dour went out of aky and river wlien the boat touehed the Staira and the girla crossed the road and went indoora. ' I teil you, Clement ' — it was one of the two elderiy gentle- rnen still Walking togetber — ' some thing troublea the boy.' ' Mr. Waller,' Said Mr. Lucius Cottle, ' it ia your firet evening, Beforeyou go to your owaroomlet nie present youtoniyfamily, We aim, Sir, in the worda of my lainentcd Fatbtr, at Siinplicity without Coaraeneaa, at Eefin erneut without Affeetation, atCheer. fulneas without Noise. Follow me, Sir.' CHAPTEB IV. DI tu On entering the room where a.11 these fine thinga were to ha found, Laurenca waa inatantly and myaterioualy eeiaed with the senae of having been in the place before. Now, aeeing that he waa born in Sydney and that ho had ncver until now been in London, thia waa clearly imposaible. Nor had ho ever aeen a picture or photograph of the room. Yet he had aeen it before. Everybody knowa, and haa feit, thia vagiie Sensation; it ia hy Borne accopted aa a proof of previoua exieteneo, or of the traoa- migration of souls. The leaat thing cauaea it; neuralgia ia not more unaoeountable : an uneipected word, a aong, the aigbt of b, flower, anything may bring it on. It ia uncomfovtable be- cause it cannot bo esplained ; and it is aa unaatiafying aa apirit- rapping, bacauae it never leada to anything more. I mean that if one could actually remember when, how, with whom, and nnder what eircumatancea, the thing partly remembered ac- tually happened on the previoua occaaion, moat interesting TUE ACADEMY Hb to historical knowledge might be eipected. As for -tho flower whieh I noiv hold in inj h&nd was once — will aay, five hundred yeara ago— given me by a Houri in (he Garden» of tho Old II im of the Mountain, just half an hour before I jumped off the lofty Tower at bis command and was swept np in fragmonts at the foot of it. Bow channing if one could rtcall the beauty of those gardena and the delights of those three days— all too ahort— spent in that mediieval Syrien EoBherville— the only genuine earthly Paradise I But no : the mewory refuses anything bayond the mere shrad and rag of fact : it aays, in;. BterlOU Ij . ' '1 Ins ia not the firat- time,' and saya it with a snap — that and no more. In the case of this room, I beliove that the Sensation was caused by meniory conneetmg what was before the eye with things read in books. For any- one who had read of interiora in the daya of tlie Third George would at once pereeive that here was a room which, in all but tbe mere perishable materials of carpet and curtain, preserved esactly the honrgeois parlonr aa it used to flouriab ander that benign eovereign. Tbe Windows were cloaed, though the even- ing was so bright and warm— Windows in the daya of the great George were alwaya kept closed : there still hngered in the air — a Burvival of the Aeademy — a aense of scholarly tranquilhty. The late Vicesimua Cottle hiinsolf rnight have been sitting m one of the two horsehair annchaira (wbere, indeed, he had sat every day for fifty years and more) discuaaing Moral Philoaophy, selecting speeimena, or in anufa ctu ring Maiiina, for his ' Practi- ca! EloiMitioniet.' Perhapa the scholarly feeling was partly due to the presenco of a large bookease filled with books. They were not, aa anybody could aee at a glance, the mereflimay pro- duetions of modern writers : in fact, most of the vohuues on the ahelvea had attained their tenth lustrum and some had achieved their Century. They were bound in leather, aa all booka ought to be — the fragrant Russia, tho sorviceable CaJf, or the polite Morocco. They had formed the Library of the two great scholars, father and aon, who had succesaively conduetod the Aeademy. Consequeutly they were chiefly classical works, Enghsh and the lighter literature being represented by Blair's ' Sermone ' and the ' Pursuits of Literature.' Sinco the deceaae of Mr. VicesimuB Cottle the books had remained altogether un- touched. This is the stränge, aad fate of booka — such as eecape the waflte-paper man— at last to stand in rowa upon the ahelves, nsver more to be taken down, never more to be read, to do no longer good or härm, to be at last aa much forgotteo as their authorB. Everytbing in the room belonged to a Georgian, pre-sjsthetio time. There was a sideboard bighly polished, made of rose- woort, three drawera on top, a cupbuard on either aide ; in the 30 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S iniddlewas the home ofthe coal-scuttle — not a coal-lios— and this was of Mppw bwnisheJ libe mito fine red gold. Thxchnirs were of the ancient kind, heavy, of poliahed inabogony, with slipjiery horeehair seats : there was a blank horsehair aofa : an ancient cloek tickcd in one cornor. On the ßideboard Btood a punch-bowl — yea, the very bowl in which the first Cottle, Aeademician, bad brewed for liis friends and on feative occa- tione many a jorum of steaniing punoh. Within it lay, now inactive, ita silver ladle, On eitbor band Btood candlestieks, two of silver and two brazen : and betneen tliem, in its tray of braes, the eminers still lay, as in old time, ready for daily nee. The table was spread for aupper— it was a supper of bread and cheoso — the platee were of the old willow pattern, and the beer was drawn in a Brown George, which made one think of oountry taverae, knee-breechee, and povvdered hair. The two Windows were furuiahed, beaides thcir wliito blinds, with that now for- gotten form of lower blind whk h only lingers in eertain eeaeide places. One would espect to find it in tlie more ancient parta of Ramsgate, for inatance. It conaista of a frame set with green latus which may be tumed in any direction by a kind of Bcrew at the top. You can thus look out, yourself unseen, or you can shut out the view as you please. On the walle, which were wainscoted and painted drab, in panels, with a projecting dado, hung coloured prints in frames which had once been gilt : over the mantelshelf were aaniplcra workeil by feminine Oottles long since passed away; there were also eertain works, once of the highest art, in was, represouting fruit and flowers ; and in the middle hung one of those prefile portraits common when the Century wae still yonng, esecuted with a pair of scissors in blaok paper, the hair, one eye, one ear (all that were vieible), and tho outline of the nosiril in dicated by fine touchos of gold, The poi-trait represented an elderly gentleman, partially bald, with coinmanding features, a splendid laea shirt front, and a double ehin : a person of great dignity. It was the portrait of the flrst historical Cottle. Soinehow, in conteraplating this. Portrait one feit as if no mere modern photograph could possibly oonvey a more lifelike umlerütanding of the man. The fire- place was of the lofty kiiu!, wiiii a son iceable hob and an open chimney, and before it Btood a high brasa fender of like date. Nothing, in short, had been changed in tho room for sisty years at least : not wbolly from a conservative attachment to old thinge, but j artly from a tightness olways chronic in the family which forbnde any expenditure except euch as was necessary to prevent tho soul from leaving tho body and going forth on inde- — ident traveL The owner of the house, precise and prim, with set lips and big nose, mig-ht have belonged to the aame period and might have sat, hiinaelf, *<a the proöle portrait =»5 JMTB of 7W£- ACADEMY 31 taken opposite to Bieter Change. He looked, indeed, once thia fancy posneaaed the min il, incomplete witbout the big lace ahirt front. At one of the windowB Btood the two girls who had oome straight down frora heaven in an open boat nnd a cloud of glory. With them stood Oliver and another girl. Their voicea, aa they talked and laughed, were not out of keeping wich the old faahion of the room. Tlicre were young people even when George the Third was king. Why abould thoy not talk and laugh together? In the other winilow was aboyof aixteen, amail for hia age, and pale, who gut with his face in a book — not one from hia grandfather'a Library, but a novel— -devoturing, ab- aorbed, not to be diaturbed. A buokiah boy of aisteen with a book in hia hand ia like a bcast of prey over a caresae. Tonch htm — epeak to bim— disturb hira — if you dare I Beaide the ampty tireplace, in one of the two horaehair armchaira, aat holt upright, her handa croesed, an elderly lady dressed in blaek stuft with a widow's cap. She waa so exactly like Mr. Cottle with her prim attitude, her alight figure, large head, tbin lipa, and goodly noae, that ahe was olearly hia aigt-er. ' Cornelia,' aaid Lnciua, ' !et me preaent to you onr lodger, Mr. Laurence Waller. Tbia, Mr. Waller, is my Bister, Cornelia Sorby — a widow." Then he whispcred, beliind hia band, ' In the Church.' Laurence bowed. Bank Side grew eontinuallvmoro wonder- All. In the Church 1 Was ahe, perhapa, the widow of a Dean, or an Archdoacon ? 'I truat, young geutleman,' said the lady, eeverely, 'that yonr mannora aro ordorly and that your hours are early. Ton are plaeed, remember, in the Beat Bedroom.' ' We heaitated long," her brother explained, 'before we put up the Card in the window. We are a quiet household. There. fore we are afraid of introducing gtrangcra to the honae. We do not like thinga to be broken. The abuae of Hoapitahty, in the worda of my father, is eondemned even by the barbarian. The Card waa put up fivo yenja ago, after the death of Mr. Polter, Q.C — he sighed heavily — *but there are few paasere-by in Bank Side, and no one haa evcr applied for the apa.rUu.ent except you. Therefore, we are naturally anxioua. ' You will find me both early and quiet.' ' Why,' Cornelia looked up aharply, ' I know that voiee — enrely — and I remember that face. Whoae voiee ia it, Brother ? ' 1 1 do not know, Sister. Mr. Waller, we have another Bister, Claudia — also widowed, Thie is her aon Felix — Felix Laverock.' Laurence had not aeon the yoiing fellow who now ahyly advanced from a dark corner and ahook handa with him — a large-limbed lad of aix feet two in beight and twenty-one of age. ' My nephew— Felii— on a Wharf. My other 32 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S eister, Claudia. \s not, herseif, in the Church. Yet «he prophe- ?iea.' At thia remarkable Statement Felis Laverock blushed crimaon and hung hia head. ' Wa had a third Bieter,' Lucio« coutinued, ? the eldest vf the family, the unfortunate Julia, Sha married Mr. Norbery, of whom you may have heard.' He apoko aa if hia Bieters were known to all the world by their Christian names. ' And these,' he continned, ' are my children. Cassandra ' — he indicated the girl who had Leen sitting in the stern of the boat — ' is my eldest. Cassandra eiercises the responsible duty of receiving the visitors at a photographer'a in Cheapeide. Flavia, my second, is in the Telegraph Department, My son, Sompronms, ia still at the City of London School. We beloag to a family of scholars, Mr. Waller, and, thongh the Academy ia closed forthis generation at least, we kaep up the connection by namea taken from Classic sources. This young lady ' — he indi- cttedthe other goddess of the sunset — 'itwould give me tha greatest happiness to clahn for a danghter. But I canriot. She La the daughter of Mr. Clement Indagine, whom you saw npon the Bank. Althea— permit me — Mr. Laurence Waller.' The room was atill füll of the glowing light of the aunact, though now it was passiflg qaickly into twilight. It seemed to theyonng man as if the girls had brought the glow with them from the west and that it still düng to their figures. Certainly there was snnshine in the face of Althea which seemed to lie there aa if it were at home and meant to stay. 'If,' thought tlie young man, ' there are in Bank Side many such girls as this, it ia an unknown country which deserves to be esplored.' The girl was of generoua height and fear proportions, her figure ronnded, her aands ruther large — it would be a groat artistie mistake if Nature, who, however, nevei makea auch mistakea, and never frames her real modela with any false pro- portions, were to give tiny hands to large, as well as to little, women : her cotnely head, which reached the height of flve feet Beven, was erowned with light brown hair which curled abont her head wherever the wind had blowa it ont : her ample eheek had the warm glow of hcalth as well as the bloom of youth. Her blne eyes were soft and somewhat heavy, but not altogetber of the pensive kind. Sha laughed ae one who rejoiceth in her youth and beanty. ' Mr. Cottle,' aha aaid, ' if you are not satisfied with Caasandra and Flavia, you are a very wicked and discontented man.' 'With all three,' Mr. Cottle replied, with the old-fashioned bow of one who paya a compliment, 'I should have been truly happy. With less than all, there ia a void.' She laughed again, put on her hat, nodded to everybody, and raii away. Oliver went with her, or after her. And Laurence THE ACADEMY 33 obaerved that, »t the departure of Mr. Oliver Luttrel, the other youngman. Felis Laveroek, asaumod instant ly a more cheerful air ; that Cassandra, for her part. looked depressed ; and that Flavia breathed a short sigh of satisfaclion. These aymptoma were not lost lipon him. Also the show of cwnaraderia with which Oliver went off with the gir] caused bim a second paag, more severe t-han the firat, of envy, hatred, and mahee. The two daughters of the house belonged to that very larga elass of London girls— the little woman. Thoy were little in Btatare, and their Shoulders were carrow : their featurea were little : their handa were very little. But Cassandra, the eider, was pretty as well an little. She was pretty, eo to speak, all over : in the shape of her head, in the outline of her face, in her slight figure, in tbe curve of her ehin, in the contour of her ear, und in her little well-shaped handa. She was extremely pretty. Her hair waa of the commonest brown colour, hut it auitod her face and her oomely head : her eyes were not partioularly fine or unuaual, but they were merry eyea ; and her lipa were laughing lips. Flavia, 011 the other hond, waa also amall but not in the least pretty. As ia often observed in familiea, the aisters closely resembled each other, and yet onewae pretty and One waa piain. Flavia, liko her father, waa prim. She showed thia quality, as he did, hy her dress, which wag neat and correct, and, as be did, by her manner and her speech. She also inherited a nose of more than nanal magnitnde. ' You nave now seen our family,' aaid Mr. Cottle. ' We shall be glad of yoiir Company, for couveraation, any evening before aupper.' He looked aa if the Beception was conclnded. In Anstrahlt, one would have been invited to aupper aa a matter of eourse, But the custom of hospitality, ia the days of George the Third, was not prevalent in the rank and Station to which the Cottle« belonged. Besidea — which must be considered — where there is a neceaaity of amall eeonomiea carried on to tbe third genera- tion, one doea not haatily ask people to eat and drink thinga which ooat money. ' Thank you," aaid Laurenoe. ' With yotu; permission I will go to my own room. You do not objeet to the euiell of tobaeco, There waa a dead silenoe. Sempronins raised hia book to hide Hb face. Bus sistors tnrned their beads. The widow tossed hera impatiently. * Permi t nie, Bister,' aaid tbe Read of tbe Family, hfting bis hand. ' Our fether, Viceeimns Gottle, would never during the whole of bis life suffer the Sanctity of the Academy — he called it the Sanctity — to be profened by tbe presence of tobaeco. The habit of anuffing he deplored, but, he seid, it waa the vice of 34 THE BELL OF ST. PÄUL'S gentlemen : that of smoking he considercd the Tics of eoal- heavera. During a hundred years tbis house has nerer known the smeU of the weed eicept once ' — he looked impreBsively at his eon — ' once, I aay, wlion a thoughtleBs boy introdueed a cigarette. Before we plaoed the oard in the window ' ? Five yeara ago,' said Cornelia. ' After tha death of Mr. Polter, Q.C.' ' Ob 1 if yon ohject to smoking ' Laurence interposed. Mr. Cottle again motioned with his hand '— — we then dis- cnaaed the subject in all its bearinga. We agreed that if we received a lodger eligible in all other respects we would, if ne- cessary, waive any further objeetions, witbin certain limita. It is aow true that moBt young men take tobacco in some form. Yon may therefore amoke in yonr own room, Mr. Waller. Wa do not forget, also, that the Academy haa now been closed for many yeara. Ferhaps, if I may snggest, a Beat near the open window — and — and— perhaps you will not be annoyed if we cough should the nimes pa.es through the doora of the Chambers.' Laurence laughed and retreated. > I remember his face and Ina voice,' Cornelia repeated. ' I likc hie face and I like bis voice,' said Caaaan&ra. ' And I hope we shall see a great deal of him.' 4 1 dreamed of beea last night,' Cornelia said thonghtfully. 'That may mean profit. Then I drcamed of caterpillars, and that means change.' ' He looks as if be will make a dreadful litter, and break thinga,' Baid FUvia. ' Father, shall we put away the punch- bowl for feax ? ' ' I hope we have done wisely,' Mr. Cottle replied. ' He looka qniet, but, after all, he ia a stränge young man. And from Aostralia. One never knowa. He may turn out to be a Driak- ing Digger. He may break qiianuties of thinga.' ' And we have given bim the Best Bedroom,' aaid Cornelia, Bhivering. 1 He cannot, my dear Sister, break the Beat Bod. And after all he may be qniet. Let us hope that he ia qniet. They told me in Lincoln'e Inn Ficlds that he belonga to a most respect- able family. I do hope that be will not break thinga. Yea, Flavia, carry the pnnch-bowl to your own room. It is well to take precautiona. He may brandish a cane. I do not think he can härm the candlesticka. And to-morrow I will lend him the " Elocutionist." We must remember, Sister, that he pays na thirty Bhillinga a week : and at the present moment,' he sighed heavily, ' there ia little doing. I should not be Burprised if the screw — I mean — the Guarantee were lowered once more. One of the gentiemen in Chambers talke of going to Bombay, and THE ACADEMY ?nother writes — aetually writes — for tlie daily papers. Triea to carry it off with a laugh. Bul it ia a poor prefence. It was not alwaya thus with the Higher Branch. Not in such a epirit, Benipronius — reineinber— did Lora Eldon rise." CHÄPTEE V. THE BEST BEDROOM, Tee lodger waa placed, as he had been warnet!, in the Beat Bedroom. Formcrly, no famOy which reapeeted itaelf wae without a Best Bedroom. It was the National reeognition of the Duty of Hoapitality. But just aa the tobacconist uaed to show outward reapect for the Sumlay by the aingle ahutter, yet duriug that day carried on a ruaruig trade, ao the establishment of the Best Bedacknovv!i.-il;_'i.-.I ? ^ trtus whieh was never practiaed. Por no one ever occupied the Best Bedroom, Honest bourgeoia folk, when, which waa rarely, they did have a guest, put him in an inferior apartment, For a hundred years, ever ainee the opening of the Aeademy by the firat Cottle T had thia room been kept in readineaa for the guest wlio waa never expected and waa never asked. It aeems remarkable. Some custome linger in decay : thia eontinued in ita priatine vigour. One might have thouirht that a lumber room, an unused garret, even ncupboard, mi'jlit have bccn act apart and lnbollcd 'Beat Bedroom' in de- ferenee to anceatral cuatom : anything wotilddofor the phantom guest, But no : the Law waa piain : it muat be carried out to the letter : and so the family were equeezed and packed to- gether in obedience to the rule which demanded a Best Bedroom. A vaat four-poater with mahogany cominns, a oanopy with faded velvet fringe and heavy red curtains looped np, stood in the midüe of the room. Lying in aueh a bed the aleeper might dream of Koyal funerals and fancy himself lyingin State. Thia conoeit would naturally conduct hia thoughta into a profitable field of meditation aa edifying to the aoul aa Tonng's ' Night ThoiightB,' The reat of the room aeemed only regardcd aa a eaae or big box for the holding of the Foor Poster. There was a ehest of drawera in mahogany ; there were two chairs also of mahogany j ? waahing-atand ; and on the walle hung two or three prints of an allegorical kind, auch aa ' Ignorance put to Flight by Reao- lution,' and ' Perse vertu: c-c- 'llic-iiil by Knowledge,' sllggeating the aeverely moral atmosphere of an Aeademy, Lawrence, in hia ignorance, thought that thia uuu.it have been formerly the bedroom of the Jäte VicesiniuE, and wondered how that reverend ELL OF ST. PA UL'S ghost would take the smell of tobaeco. He waa wron™ : it had always been the Beat Bedroom, and no one for a hundred yeara had ever alept in it. Between the colossal Eed and the window had been placed (by the fair hands of Flavia) a small table with a eover — only a flimsy modern thing with a common deül top, put there for the convenience of the lodger, who perhaps might wisb to write letters. A pair of candlea Btood upon thia table. Laurence opened the window and Iooked out. The sanset glory had deriarted, and a tranquil twilight reigned, But the river was dark : there were no lights upon it or any movement i Bank Side itself, though it was not yet ten o'clock, was de- eerted. There came no aound of voices from the 'Watermen'a Arms ' cloae by. To outward view, a secluded Bpot and quiet, But caba and carts rolled over Southwark Bridge; and enginea whistled and traina rnmblod continuously from the railway atation beyond. Many placea there are in London which have n> «ecluded look and the appe&rance of a aolemn calm. Bank Side on a Summer evening is one. Or there is the Cathedra! Cloae of Horselydown : or the Crescent, Mmorios : or the Garden Churchy&rd of St. George'a, Ratcliff. They are quiet and im- disturbcd, but around them and outside them rolle the noisy River of Life which is never still. Laurence lit the caodles, sat down, and began the desecra. tion of the Academy by the amoke of tobacco. Presently he opened bis pooket-book and drew out a letter, * Now, my dear mother,' he said, ' we will read your letter again on the Spot. It will be mueh more intelligible. M.-'H.n- time, I have done already mora tha» you desired. I am actually lodging with the people. My cousina, Lucius and Cornelia, little think that they are entertaining an angel.' ' My dearest Son," the letter began. ' When you have aeen the aig'hts of London and been to all the gay placea and are able to apare a little time, I wieh you to find out for nie what has become of certain people who at one time had a great deal to do with my life. Perhaps they are all dead; perhaps they are dtspersed and loat aightof: but perhaps you will und some of them. ?Oo, firat of all, to a place on the aonth aide of the river, call od Bank Side. It is a poor and shabby place' — ('Not at sunset, mother'} — 'on the river side, with factories, worke, and wharvea. There are, however, two or three private houses, and one of them on the weat side of Southwark Bridge used to be the residenee of my uncle Vicesimus Cottle, who kept a sehool there. I do not suppose that he is etil] living, because I apeak " ' 'me thirty years ago, but the house was his own, and perhaps of his childran live there still. He had one aon, Luciua, and three daughters named Julia, Cornelia and CkuJ ROOM Claudia, my dear mother,' said the reader, laying down tho . >r, 'ia now in the Church. She is the widow of an Arch- deacon or even a Bishop — ehe eertainly wears an apron : Clandia ia a Prophet : and Julia is the unfortunate Julia, now no more. Lucius is now in the Higher Brauch of tho Law — that is, a Bamster. Perhape a Queen's Counael, though why a Barrister ahould live »t Bank Bide However ' ? The eldest of my Cousins was married to a certain Mr. Norbery, about whom I have to teil you a great deal. He was twenty years older than his wife. Of tho three cousina Julia was my friend. Tne others regarded me with Che affection that ia generally bestowed upon poor relationa, hut Julia was really kind to me. Therefore, it was a great grief to me when she caught aome kind of bad thront and died. 1 My sister and I were the poor relations ; though iuJccd there was not mach wealth in tbe family. We were so poor that we had to leave school and go to work at a very early age. My sister was employed in a City shop where she niade tritn. mings, and I presently became a daüy dressmaker. That meanti that for a Shilling a day and dmner and tea I went out to people's housea and sowed for them. In sorao houaes they were kind to me, I remember : but in many they tried to got as muoh work »8 they could for the smallsst amount of food.' 1 Mankind,' Said the reader, out of his vast esperience, ' are made up of beasts and humana. Moatly beasta.' ' Presently my sister heard of a good place in the country and went away. We wrote to eoch othor for a year, and then niy letters came back. And then I weat away too, and so we quite lost siglit of each othar. And I know not what has be- come of my poor dear Florry, who was once so pretty and so bright. It is a hard thing, my son, to be a poor girl in England. My uncle, upon whom I called regularly on the firat BoM» of every montb, received me with etately condescension : my two cousins with the kind of warmtht which comes frnirt a sense of duty. How stränge it ia that, even now, with all our wealth and aucceaa— when I have my can-iages and great hotiseB and the people call me "my Lady," and we are far, far grander people than my cousins aver dreamed about — I slill think of them as oooupying a position so much higher in the world than my own. Teil me if their houae on Bank Side proves over- whelming to you.' The reader looked about him and aniilod. ? To me the i; .?? bjgbwl ptMaSde ^.mtility, and no one eertainly could have had more dignity than my uncle VicesimuH. 1 Soon after Julia died Mr. Norbery greatly astoniahed me by »sking if I would hecome his housekeeper. He said that I wa» no Htranger to him : that I knew the waya of the houae, and 3« THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S that he knew me for a careful giil and onewho would not waste and lavish. He offered roe sixteen poundH a year, with board and Iodging. His offer soemed tu open a door of releaae froiu my precarions way of living, and I williiigly accepted it. For Home unknown reason Cornelia and Clandia choae to be offended. They made me foel that they rcsented my taking tbeir siBter's place, thmigh only as hounekeeper : and they said ho many un- kind thinga tbat I lefi off going to tbe house and afterwards saw nothing more of my cousins. 1 Now, my son, pleaae read carcfully what followa, thongh it will not at first interest you. Wben you have read it yoa will underBtand wbat I want you to do, and wby. ' I knaw very well, when I accepted Mr. Norbery's propoaal, wbat he meant by hie ways. It was no Beeret that Ins ways wera niggardly. I knew that ho was paraiinonious in the higheat degree. He would dole out the tea, weigh the bread and the meat, do the markefciiig: put the house on allowanee of every- thing — all this I knew very well — but at the worst he conld not keep up a more thrifty way of life than I had been compelled to follow. Besides, I knew him to be a man who would not treat me with personal unkindness, Thereforo, I accepted hia offer and became his housekeeper. 1 My eruployer lived at a houee in Southwark Bridge Road — I forget the number— but it was one of a row on the eaat aide near Anchor Terraee. It was dingy, beeanse the owner could never make up his mind to spend money in painting it. Within, the furniture was continually being changeJ, becausa he was always buyins ihim/s aii'l sdiin^ tliem at a profit. One day we would be sttting in tha midst of the moat beautiful and preciouB carved cabineta, tablos, and chaira, and the next lipon common ehaira taken out of the kitchen with a deal table. And 8ometiro.es the walls would be hung with paintings, and at other timea they would be qnite bare. 'Therenever waB any man bo friendlesB as Mr. Norbery. He had no friends : he seemed to have no acquaintances : he only knew other men by doing bannen with them. No one ever came to the house : he went nowhere. Sonic men go to taverca in the evening, for Company. But Mr. Norbery sat at home every night, alone. He courted no society. Once I aaked him if he had no relations. Heheaitated awhileand then replied that he had none. Afterwarda, however, I diacovered that this was not true. He had relationa, aa you shall learn. ' He was a money- lender, to begin with. That is to aay, money -lendin g waa bis prinzipal business. His house in tha Southwark Bridge Boad was, 1 suppose, a good central spat for auch buainess. His olients were not young gantlewen of profli- gnte habits, auch aa one reads of in nuvels, but the tradosmen of the Qnarter. He knew them all and their private affairs: he knew what mortgngeB were od their bouaes or their Stocks; what money they had borrowed, and who were bchind them : if any of them gave a bill of aale he found it out ; if one of theru took to drink : if one began to haunt tho tavern and tbe billiard room : if one began to bet npon rares or to follow any kind of Sport : if one had an extravagant wife, or a worthless son : if the buaineBS of one waa falling off : if one was a fool and certain to cause bia busineaa to decay : he learned it, and traded to hin own ad van tage ort the knowledge. 'He waa not only a money-leader: ho wag alwaye attending sslea and auctions and buyiug thinga which he aold again : ha waa alwaya looking out for people who bad thinga of wbose valne they were Ignorant — piotures, fnrniture, china, plute, mirrora, books, anything. Wien ho Grand such thinga he knew no rest nntil he had bought them — of course for a tenth part of their valne. He had an agent, elerk, or aervant, named Joseph Mftyes, who waa his jaekal, and found out thia and all other kinda of In- formation for hira— I think he got it from pot-boys, bailiffa, men in poBBBBaion, marine-store dealera, and so forth, gathering it in the publie-houses. He was a fellow of a jovial appearance, though aa cold-hearted in renlity aa hia maater. 'Inahort, as I now und erstund, Mr. Norbery'a whole buai- neas waa to mako money out of the neeessities, weakness, folly, and wickednesa of hia fellow-men. It ia not an hnnourable buaineBS, though men becoine rieh by meana of it. And, in the purauit of that buainesa, he knew no teuderneaa, sympathy, or oompaaaion whatever. He exaeted hia bond. ' Hia hahits of life were uniform. In the morning he went out upon hia affairs, and generally reinained out nntil one o'clock. After dinner he Bat in hia oflico, whichwaa the front room, until half-paBt eight in the evening, reeeiving his clienta and trans- acting buainess with them. Hither came the oöhatrpy mau who hoped by the help of a loan to get clear of hia dittkultiea : hither came the same man, Liter on, when be had discovered that he had tied a millstone about his neck. There was the widow who had borrowed inoiiey to pay her rent, and given a bill of aale upon her furniture for security : the tradesman who bad mortgaged his stock : the elerk who wanted to renew hia bill : tbe spendthrift who wanted to give a bill in exehange for money down— they all came. At the opening of LuainesB no- body could be more friendly than Mr. Norbery : tbe tbing waa vory aimple : it could be arranged in ten minutea : terms of re- payment wonld be eaay. Later on, he became harder: he would eiplain quite clearly what would huppen if the agreement waa not carried out. I, who Bat in the room behind at my Work, could hear the poor crearturea weeping and praying for THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S I ime, er eise, as aometimea happened, cursing the man wlio lind made them sign that bond. Neither prayers nor curees moved liim any more than they wonld have moved the rising tide. ' After supper he had a pipe and a glass of brandy -and -watet — his only eiiravagance— and. aornetirucs he talked : always of hia affairs and hie wonderfid deverness in getting the better of somebody or other. I understand eow, that in these conversa- tiotiB he tried to represent himself as he wished people to re- gard him, and to think of him as a perfoctly just man who wanted no more tban the agreement entitled him to demand, I also underst&nd, now, that he waa always seheming and cou- triving to overreoch and get the better of his neighbours. ' There was one part of hia property — in fact, the most im- portant part — of which he waa continually telling me. First he would teil me how he acquired it, and this with so ronnd- about a Btory that it waa easy to pereeive that he was conceal- ing some portions of his history and altering other portions. Evi- dently it was a story which might be told from aoother point of view. I also gathered that, in faot, it bad been very dif- ferently told. It waa property which ahould have belonged to a oertain Sylvester Indagine ' The reader here laid down the letter, the name naturally canaing hia thonghts to wandar to tbe girl who came out of the boat- Then he remembered a oertain fellow-travellur. ' The Profesflor'a name waa Sylvester ' he said. ' Sylveater Indagine, bnt Mr. Norbery jierauaded him into selling it. He owned that he persuaded him ; bnt then, he explained, Sylveater Indagine waB auch a poor weak oreature that aomebody eise would have persuaded him. Ee knew this, he admitted — that the property was bound to go np in value : the nnfortunate owner did not know this. What then? He might have known : it waa » matter of business : in busineas one Luve and sells and makes profit by getting knowledge. Then, be had given ft good price for the property — a much better price than some men would have offered. If Sylvester afterwards died in the Quoen's Bench Prison, what had that sale to do with his death? And one evening he said a new thing. "As to what they said about my sister," he said, "that ia rubbish. She was dead, and he owed me money. He owed me money." I did not then understand the worda, but I re- membered them — so that, as I said before, I found out that he had had relations. And this, I am certain, none of my oousina, not even hia wife, ever knew. ? Another evening he told me that Sylvester Indagine'a son was likely to go off in the same way as hia father. ? " There sie two boya," ha said : " Clement and .äüneaa. I don'tknow ftt thiamoment where Clement ia, Mub&b is in u THE BEST BEDROOM 41 mlicitor's Office. And I am afrnicl he has taken to büliards and drink— yes — to büliards and drink like hia father." ' O11 aeveral oecaaiona he returned to this subject, so ae to show that he was watching tliis young man with interoat. And I learaed lhtle by littlo that there was a smull property Coming to the sona of Sylvester Indagine, and that he hoped to get that property for himself. I confeaa that I feit a gre.it pity for these Sjung men, round whoao feet I eould see the snares were spread, ut I never saw eitber of them. 'Now, one night, just before closing time, there was a lond and angry conversation in the offlce. Bitting in tha back parlour with only a glase door of Separation, I heard all that was stiid. ? " 70131 1 " cried the Speaker, " you thought to do for the son wliat you had already done for the father. You would persuade them into parting witli the little property that ia Coming to them. You expected -3Lneaa thia very evening, and you have got the papera ready for him to sign. Well — he will 1 " If he will not seil, Dr. Lnttrel, how will he get out of his difficulties ? I shall not give hiin any money." ' " He has already got out of them. I am oome to teil yon that he haa gone away." '"Ohl yon have advised him to ran away, have yon, Sir? ITo run away 1 " ' " At all eventa, he haa run away. He knowa now how you have bought up hisdebts, and why. And he has gone away out of your reach." ' Mr. Norbery aaid nothing. ' " You ! " The Speaker was a certain Dr. Luttrel, who had receutly eetUed to practise in the place. He was a young man and aaid to be clever. " You I " — I eould feel that he was poüiting his ßnger at Mr. Norbery — "you — towhomhe should have looked for help and advioe — have done your best to com- pass bis destruction for the sake of a miserable houae or two I The very atonea »re calling out upon you." ">I do not hear the voice of thoae atonea. Say what you have to aay, and go." '"You sent your own aister's husband — ^Üneaa Indagine'a Jather— to die in a Debtora' Priaon— and now you are trying to rob your sister's sonst " 'He aaid more, but thia was enough. Mr. Norbery, then, had relations. He had nephews. They were Clement and JEneaB, the two aona of Sylvester Indagine, the man who had died in the Queen 's Eeuoh Prison, whose pro]ierty he had ac- quired. And he was scheming to get from them whatever they had. There was never a harder-hearted man,' Dr. Luttrel ' — snid the reader. ' That was the man I aaw had. 1 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'!, to-night. And Clement Indagine was with him. Very well. If Ihe old man ia dead, it harrtly looka aa if he ho.il left his wealth to his nephew.' He went on reading the letter. ' I was by thia timo engaged to your father : he was a boat- builder at Eotherhithe. I had not venture! to teil Mr. Norbery, becauae I was afraid. I knew he wanted tue to Htay with him, and that he would be very angry. Bot my lover grew im- patient and I had to teil him. First of all he feil into a great rage, and deßtared I was behaviiit; wiÖi the grOPBOrt ingratitude. Nest he feil to cajoling me, and aller all sorts of flattering words he offered to double the wagea if I would etay on with him. Lastly, he even offered to msrry me. " There ! " he said, " I will make you the richest woman in the Borough, and I hops that will Batiafy you." He aeemed amazed that any woman shonld refuae such an offer. ^Vhen he uuderstood that nothing could bribe mo to give up my ewealheart, ho became quite calm, and Baid in hia drieat mannor— I remember the words aa if it waa yeaterday — "Then, eouain Lucy"— he always called me cousin. — "you leave my houae in an hour. And now, listen. Bis months ago I made my will. I muat leave my money to Bomeone, and I left it to you — all of it " — hegroaneddiamally— "thewhole of it; all my beautiful houaes and shops and my eharea and invostments. Eackler the lawyer drew the will : Mayes witnesaed it : and it ia kept in my box at Backler'a. Very good. Now I ahan't alter that will. I won't leave a aix- pence to — to the aona of Byh ßstar Iii'.b.;.'in.c, and I won't leave a sixpence to Julia's relationa. But I will punish you another way. I am going to live for thirty yeara yet— why not for forty ? You shall apend all those yeara in poverty : your hua. band ahall be a bajikrupt : you shall be ruined : and I will not help you. Not until you are an old woman, and have paaaed your life in misery, will you sueoead to your fortune. Mean- time, no one will know that it ia to be youra, and you will not be able to raise a penny on your eipectstioiiB. Your husbaud, I aay, ahall be a pauperaud your ehililreii bi-jrgara. Now, you oan go." 1 An hour afterwarda I left tbe house, taking my thinga with me, and I have never aeen >iiiti since. ' But hia worda were partty prophetic, becauae in two or three montha after our ivoilrtii i£ mv hiislKiiid waa made a bank- rupt. I do not nnderstand exactly how the thing was managed, hut it waa Mr. Norbery who did it by meana of aoma mortgage that he had acquired. The mortgage waa of long atanding and troubled my husband no more than if it had been rent J but the value of the Yard had gone dowu, ao that when the mortgage waa foreclosed it waa not possible to raise another to pay it off with. At first it really Beemed ax if the reat of his worda were to S£! BEST BEDROOAf e trne, becauae my husband fmind it difficult to gct work.to ?ay cothing of recovering ma position. At last we reaolved npon trying a new country where Mr. Norbery could no longer pureue na, and in a happy day we came here. ' I am quite certain, my dear ln.y, that Ue spoke the truth : I jneati, that he really had made that Will and that he was re- solved cot to n uilis another. ' Go then ; find out, first, if he still lives. If he does, teil him who yon are, and aay, for me, that I do notwant any of his fortune, however great it may he, bnt that it helongs to his nephows, to whom ho ought to lenve it. If, on the other hand, he ia dead, which is more than likely, ascertaiii what has been done about that will, and put the matter iuto proper handa so that the property may be restored to his two nephows or theii children. ' As regards my Cousins, I do not know whether they will reeeira you in a friendly apirit. But raake their aeipiaintanee, tmleaa they are ecatlered and bave left their old houae on Hank Side. It may be, perhaps, that some of them are poor and want aasiatanee. Lot ua help them for the aake of Julia, who was always my very loving friend and cousin. ' As for my aister Florry, I know not whore you can look for or how you may find her, or if she atül lives. I'erhaps, if any- le can teil you about her, it would be Cornelia. Be happy, y dear son, and como back soon to your loving mother, 'Lcct Waller,' . a the old days, was supposed to require more than an inch and a half of candle in lii.i hedroom. It was on this limited Scale that Flavia had furniahed the lodger's candle- Bticka. Therefore, at this point, just as tlie letter was finiehod, both candlea began simultan eously to flicker in their sockets. Laurence eitinguished them and sat awhile pondering, in the twilight. ' Things," he saiil, ' coincide in a truly wonderfnl faahion. I am haunted by Indagines. The Professor waB on board the ateamer — his Christian name was Sylvester, too. He wag coming to England in order to remedy a great wrong, he told me. What great wrong? Did the ghoat of the firat Sylvester lug off to a debtors' prisnn tha glmst of old Norbery, and is he kept there still ? And on my very firat night on Bank Side I meet Clement Indagine himself — what relntinn can he be to tha Professor, I wonder ? And he is a poet— I bave heard of Swia- burne and Browning and Locker und Dobson, bnt I never heard of Indagine. Perhapa he is EhräntxnlM in disguise. Can any wrong haveheen done to Althea? . . . Althea 'herepealed the name softly. ' She came out of the suneet. She desuendcd THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S from heaven. Is ehe the one who is wronged ? In that case I ebould like to take my coat off. And ia tbe Proporty big, or was it big only in my motlier'B imagination ? Perhaps it consists of half a dozen hoaseB in & Bank Side bIueü. Hang it ! I hope Althea will get it all. She ahould buy avelvetdress— ahewould look splendid in crimson velv-et. Althen— the beautiful Althea, She oame atraight out of the clouda — with an attendant Nymph.' Here he jawned, being sleepy. ' I am in the honse of my anceators. Vicesimus — wond-er why my ruother never told me abont the "Practical Elocutionist " — was my gwi unole : my grandmother was a Cottle : the original Acadetnician was my gi'oat-grandfather. Lucius — of the Higher Brauch — ismy cousin: Cornelia — in the Church — how the Devil can ehe be in the Church ? — ia also my cousin. So is Claudia, who ia s. Prophet — a Minor Prophet: it would be presnmptuous to espeet higher rank ; and pretty little Caasandra and Flavia the Prim and Sempronina and Felis: — they are all — all — all — my Qi"~ have ii ofa d out of the window again. The broad river flowed, black and silent, at his fect : beyond the river tbe great Cathedra! loomod, high above the warehouaeB, vast and majestie, solemn in the dim twiligbt. Aeross the waters came the boom of the bell striking a half-hour, Then this young man'a heart was fillcd with a atrange emotion. He forgot, for the first time in hia Life, the Sydney home ; he forgot the Australian thoughta : his mind went back to the old time, thirty yeara ago, before ever he was born, when hia mother went from houae to house earning a Shilling a day and her huinble food — hia mother, now so aweet and gracious a. lady — and meekly called onee a month at the house of her gentcel relationa to receive the eon- descensioa of the learned Vicesimus and the chilly kindneas of Cornelia : and trampad about the mean streets of Southwark with her Bister, aa poor as herseif— the sister who raade trim- BimgB in a shop and took a country Situation and disappeared. What became of that sister ? Whither had she voyaged ? Why did ahe leave off writing ? Where was ehe now ? He now understood for the firat time— he had read theletter a dozen timea on hia voyage home, but with little coniprehen- siün — his mother's old lifo. Ab he had stood that night to watch the snnset upon the river, ao might she have stood a hundred times — with her Bisters— with Florry, loat andvaniahed. Behind her the respectability of the Academy: before her the river and the great Cathedra! beyond : her preBent, a life, hard, iU-paid, uncertain : and for her future nothing but the hope that always Uvea and mostly dies with youth. He was ajnong his own people, unknown to them, perbaps bringing gifts from foreign landa. Among bis own people. One THE BEST BEDROOM 45 cannot choose Cousins t they aro aerved out: one is helped to cousine : it is good manners to receive without a murmur what- ever oousina are helped. These were, at least, interesting, tiiough not wealthjr, cousins. And they were his own people. To a Colonial this may mean more tban to a home-born Englishman. Whiie he nat pondering the&e things, the clock etruck twelve ; elowly, every stroke of tho bell ringing and circling in the air. It was midnight : everi the railway Station was (juiet at last : the night was very still and calm. And then Lauronce eaw things ghostly. He clearly saw, standing at the river aide, the figurea of two poor girla catching each other by the hartd. He oould see them quite plainly, and he could hear them talk- ing ; and one was aaying, ' Florry, we are alone in the worlil — let us never lose each other.' The voice came up to him with the dying echoee of tho bell. It was the voice of bis mother. As he stretched hia legs between the sheets he heaid a little stifled cough which made him eit np and look round, for it seemed to come from the bottom of the bed. 1 Toat's Vicesimus,' he niunnured. ' I tbougbt he wooldn't •Und iL The Sanctity of the Academy is profaned at last.' Tbc name of Joseph Mayes may be read uport a zinc plate oo the doorpost of No. 483 Southwark Bridge Koad. The plate is of zinc because tbose of brass are cften atolen and may be aold, whereas he who Bteale a zino plate finds him seif in possessio ti of a property which he oannot seil. He might as well ateal Honduras Stock. The house, a narrow three-comered strueture, bas been of a deplorable dinginess for a long time. Tbe door, however, Stands hospitaLIy open all day without even a Satnrday half-holiday. In the window is a large printed bill annooncing to the world that Joseph Mayea, Snccessor to S. Norbery, can be conaulted from «in in the lnorning until nine in the evening. Many of his clients, in fact, prefer ?calling ttpon bim under cover of the night. The bill also informs the paaaer-by that this use- ful and aecomplisbed person undertakes many and varied Offices, He will advance you, he asys, on your own personal security, without fees, promptly. with seerecy, and on tnost moderate terms, from 51. to 5,000£. ' he will attend auetiona for you: Ibe will valne your furnitnre, library, pictures, and plate : he will utgotiate the aale and tranefer of your stock, goodwill, and CHAPTEB VI. TO 8. H0BBBRY. 46 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S connection : he will receive your rents, dividenda, and iuterest : he will collect your reute : he will estimate your dilapidations : he will trinke you an. inventory of gooda : he will eell or let yotir hause ; he will find you a partaer : or he will &ct as your General Un the moming after hie arrivfil Lanrence sallied forth with the vagua idea of lookiiig about liini : one alwaya learne aomething by looking about. He found himself in the South- wark Bridge Boad, and ae he atroüed along looking about him with the interest belonging to anew place, his eye feil lipon this hill in the window and be stopped to read it. ' Successor to S. Norbery.' Then Mr. Norbery bad rotirad from buaineaa or had been culled aloft. ' Joseph Mayes.' It was the nauie of Mr. Norbery'a jackal. Well, if he wanted any Information about Mr. Norbery, he would probably get it Lere. He hesitated, read the bill agairi carefully, and then knocked at the door in- acribed ' Office." The room waa furnished with a high railed ilesk, auch ob one seea provided for cashiera in ahops. Behind the deak, in the corner, stood a aafe, and beeide it ivu a large table. Two choirs were placed in front of the taUo ready for clients, and one behind it in readineas foc Mr. Mayea himself, but at this moment it was occupied by liis clerk. A bündle of papers lay 011 the table before him, and he was apparently reading them and making noles of each. He looked up aa Laurence entered. It was none other thon the distinguished Hungarian patriot. Laurence feit ashamed of the old couutry, which could suffei ho great a man to baconio clerk to a money-lender. Australia, he thought, would have given him aomething better. The Chevalier, however, made no sign of recognition, but weut on with bis At the deak atood a man, peu in hand, over a great volnma of accounts. By the way in which hin filigar asaisted hia eye ; by hia method of holding the pen ; by the aprawling big hand. writing; and by the iü-ahaped figurea, was cleorly betrayed thB lack of education. That be belonged to the baser sort was also proclaimed aloud by bis appearance, hia voice, and bis monnera. He woa now advanced in years : his white hair made a simple Coronet or glory round his red bald bead : his face was red and his cheeka füll : he waa fat : he looked the kind of man who feels really happy only when he Bits in a bar-parlour with a glase of aomething hol, and a few congenial companiona : one of those who laugh like ten tuen over the choioe qnipa and deli- cate atoriea aud deflly tumed epigrama with which tha eyening would be enhvened : one who would be populär with theae tavern friende: and whose popularity would be in no way d by the knowledge that he spent hia busineaa hours iu ?0. SUCCESSOS TO S. NOREERY 47 aveireaching his clients, bpsting hü friends, grinding the noses of the poor, und exacting the letter of his bond. For to these tliinkers, of such are the truly adnairable among businoss inen. Mr. Mayea laid his broad forefinger on the book to mark the place. ' Well, Sir,' he said, ' what may be your businesa ? " ' May I hftve a few worda with you ? ' ' On busineBs 1 Certainly. On private busineBs, I presume. Certainly. Principals only dealt with. Chevalier, get out,' The Patriot rose meekly and retinsd through a glass door to an inner rooni, carrying with bim his papers. 'Chevalier' — Mr. Mayea ran after him — ' go round to the Bank and get my book. Buy a Shilling' g morth of postage-stampB. And, on your way, Dali at the butcher's and get (wo chops — pick out the biggest and the leanest. And four pounds of potatoes — I won't give more than three farthingB a pound. You can have the euld pork for dinner. Look sharp about it. Now, Sir.' Mr. Mayea cloflüd the door and took hiaown armchair, assuming a patemal and beniguant softnesa of voice, with a aympatbetio Bmile, wbile he stuck his thumbs in his waisteoat araiholes and stretched out his legs. This is an attitude which invites eonfidence. 'Now, young gentleman, if you are in trouble and your credi- tors are pressiug you : or if you've got to Square somebody — young men will be fooLish : I've been young myself— and per- haps foolish ' — he smiled very sweotly and broadly — ' or if you want to raise money on reversionary interests, fürniture, or note of hand : or if you've got anylhing to seil — this js the right shop. Speak out. — Don't be afraid. My clerk is gone, and there is no one to listen. I have been called the Young Man 's Best Friend.' ' I do not want to borrow money at all,' Bald Laurence, abaahed at his own aolvency. ' Oh I " Mr. Mayea showed a certain amount of diaappoint- ment. Not much, but perceptibly some. The smile in his eye« and on hie Ups alowly faded away. He was no longer one who knew and could sympathise with the follies of youth ; he was again the man of business. 'I fear I shall only waete your tinie.' ' Not much of it, you won't.' Mr. Mayea rose, leaving the chair of benevolenee, and assunaed an attitude of mastery, Standing with his back to the ftre and his hands in his pookets- ' Not much, young man. Therefore, so as to waete as llttle as possible, go on quick 1 ' ' You are, I believe, the suceeseor of Mr. Norbery ? ' ' I am. Formerly Hb eonfidential — ahem — partner." Can you give nie bis prescnt address ? ' ' His present address 1 — Why— Ho ! Ho I ' he laughed aloud. 4* THE BELL OF ST. PAULS i bim. He'i ' It's a permanent address. Ton can't pied the surne quartere for flvo years. it'a Nunbead Cei netery .' 1 Mr, Norbery is dead then ? ' ' Dead aa a doornail. Yoong gentleman, if yon didn't know tbat Mr. Norbery is dead, where have you beert for the last five yeiu-B 1 If your hair was ahorter I ähoold think you'd beeo enjoying a spell at one of the Queen'a Hotels.' ' Mr. Norbery is dead, ia he 1 Exeuse my ignoraoce, I have just come from Australi».' ' Ob I From Australia. "Well — the papers were fuU of it. But I auppose you've got no papers in AuatraJia. What might yon be wanting of Mr, Norbery now ? ' ? I believe that Mr. Norbery left a little Property bebind him,' ' A little 1 Ho t Ho I Ho I A little Property was it 1 ' ' How shonld I know whetber it was little or big ? * ' Come now, Mieter. I don't, aa a general rule, give away Information, because I find that it keeps well and sometimes gete to be wortb money, But I'li give yon tbia, because thera isn't a man, woroan, or cbild in Southwark who couldn't teil you äs much. Mr. Norbery died five yeara ago, in thia very nottse. He left a hundred and forty tboasandpounds—a hundred and forty thonsand pounds— think of that — a hnndred and forty thousand poimds I Come now. Call that a little Property ? ' 1 Indeed, no.' ' Well — bnt that wasn't all. Thero waa honsea and ahops — whole rows of houBea and shons. I thonght I knew most of hia Property ; bnt I didn't— not the quarter. To be eure, he alwayg colleoted his rants himself.' ' A great Property, truly. And what beeame of it ? ' 1 What beeame of it ? Ali I ' Mr. Mayes rubbed hia chin and shook hia head. ' What beeame of it 1 If Mr. Norbery oiily knew what did become of it, be wonld come to lifo again. He would, indeed. Thero was no Will found among his papers, and there were no heirs to claim the Estate.' ' No heirs ? ' Laurence thought of the Poet. ' No Will ? No heirs to claim the Estate? ' ' No heira. And so the Treasnry — aetually the Treasury — aeized it for the Crown. The Queen got it. Think of that— the Queen I They soooped up all that money and gave it to tha Queen. To think that Mr. Norbery eliould have saved and scraped all hia lifo — only to make the Queen rieber I ' ' No Will ? " Lanrence repeated. ' There waa no Will. Everything waa in order : all Ha in. veetmenta were found entered in hia private booka— not a paper out of its place. But no Will. There was a box — one of those very boies '—he pointed to the rows of tin boxea— 'in Liwyer SUCCESSOR TO S. NORBERY ikler'a office, with Mr. Norbory's name upon it. Bnt the papera in it were old and worthiess. No Will.' No Will I Mr. Norbery dead 1 The Estates claimed for the Crown ! And no heira. Theo as to Clement Indagine — wbat was he about ? Nothing ever happens aa we expect — thia was one of the firat diecoveries made in philosophy — bat this turn of events was ruore than unexpected. It changed the whole poaition. If the rightful heirs did not choose to elaim the proporry— and such a property — they muat have known the relationship : what waa tbere left to be done ? No Will : then bis mother had nothing to do witb the busineaa, nor he either. ? His late wife'a relations,' Mr. Mayea went on, ? aent a Petition to the Treaaury. But they got nothing because they eouldu't show that they bad any call to eipect anything. Why, they had no more ri'ght to the money than I had. Not so mnch, because I hylpeil the old man to make it.' ' This ia very wonderfol,' said Laurence. ' Perhapa you're another of 'em,' aaid Mr. Mayea. 1 Perhaps I am. No doubt I muat be another of 'em. Wbo are they ? ' 1 Belationa. Thay've tnrned np by hundreds. No one conld have believed there were so many Norberys in the World. They've heard of it in America and crossed the ocean to prove their olaim. But they coolem 't. They could prove that their name waa Norbery, and they coTildn't get no further. P'rapa your name is Norbery too. Yet you didn't so much aa know that he was dead. Aa for whero he come fronj nobody knowa. Nobody ever heard. They found half a dozen certificates of baptism, any one of whieh might have been the old man's, bat tbey couldn't prove it.' ' But he had a aiater ' Laurence atopped ahort. ' How d'ye know that ? A aiater r Well, I was once told a cock and a bull atory about a sietcr and the old Queea's Benoh Prison. A aiater?' 1 Perhaps I was rnia in forme d,' said Laurence. * I wonder if it'a trae. A sieter. How do yon know, and who are yon, Mister ? ' ' Come, Mr. Mayea, let na be buainesa men. That is my concern.' •You can't be one of tbe sister'a sone — or grandaona. Yet you may be — why not 1 There'a a something io your face that I seem to reoollect. Look here, young gentleman.' Mr. Mayea resnmed his seat, and with it bis aapect of smiling benevolence, with his thumbs in their former poaition. ' If you can prove that you are a Cousin oranephewor anytbing, this great fortune ig youra — it is yonra. Tbink of that. A hundred and forty THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S thousand pounds ; not to speak of the house property I All your own. And you only about five-and-twenty. Wliy, yoa might more thaa double lt by the titne you wäre fifty. Ton might mako it a mülion before you diod. A million I Look here, young gentleman. Confide your case to me. I know all about Mr. Norbery. I'll carry it through for you, and when it ia finished I will take, for my own trouble, just a little ten per cent, on all I have made for you. Ib that fair ? Ten per cent. for me, and ninety — ninety per Cent, on a hundred and forty thousand pounds — for you. Why there's no proportion in it.' ' Nothing could bo fairer, Mr. Mayes. Unfortunately, how- ever, I am not a couein or any relation.' ' Ah ! that'B a pity now.' Onco more he abandoned benevo- lenoe. ' Well,' he said in an altered voice, ' if that ia all you came to know, you've had as much information aa you are going to get Anything eise, you'll be charged for. Time'a money here, fOBM Du, whalever it may be ia Australia.' 1 There was a Will,' said Lnurence. Mr. Mayes looked up sharply. ' How do you know that ? What do you know 1 ' ' There waa a Will. I know bo muco. I know, too, where it was signed and witneBBed.' 1 Where was it signed and witnessed ? ' ? At the office of a lawyer namod Backler.* 'He is dead. He died two montha after Mr. Norbery. But he'd gone silly witb. too much nun- and- water, and he couldn't answer any questioUB. Go on.' 'The Will was drawn by that man: it was signed and witnessed in Ins office, thirty years ago. And you youraelf were one of the witnesses.' Mr. Mayes opened the door of the inner room, but it was empty. The Chevalier was still absent in quest of the potatoes. ' I don't know who you are, young gentleman, but ' — here hia voice feil to a whisper — 'so far, your information is corroct. I was one of the witnesaea, There was a Will.' * What beeame of that Will ? ' ' I don't know. I am still looking for it. Mr. Norbery may have destroyed it, but I don't think he did. If he had he would have made another. What ? Let all his money go to the Crown ? No, Sir. As for the contents of that Will, I supposa if you know so much you know a Etile more." 'Well,' said Laurence cautioualy, 'when the Will is found you will know as much as I.' 'And pray, Sir,' asked Mr. Mayes, with as much an approaeh to a bullying tone as the superior appearan.ee of Uns young man Would permit— ' pray, Sir, who are you ? ' 'That concems myself.' TO S. NOR B ERY S» Ton are not a claimant : you know there waa a Will : you pxetend to know the proviaiona of tha Will.' ' No,' said Laurence, ' I make no pretences. Never mind me, Mr. MayeB. Go on searc]iin.g for that Will. If you find it, we will Ulk abont the next Step. You go on looking for it. How are you looking for it ? Wliere are you looking 1 ' ' That's my business.' ' So it is— so iE is." ' If I do find it, them that beneßt by it will have to benefit me first.' 'Find it first. Find it first, Mr. Mayea.' ' As for me ' — Mr. Mayes coiitmued to follow the Game line ofthought— 'I do myself woll whenevcr I can. And I don't look after my friends tili I am dorne well.' ' Praiseworthy indeed,' Laurence murmnred. ? Therefore, if you want me to search, you will have to pay me for my tiine and trouble.' ' Oh, no ! No, Mr. Mayea.' Laurence laughed pleaaantly. 1 Find it first. Search for it or not, just as you like. I will look in oow and then perhaps, just to inquire, you know, if the property is left to me.' Mr. Mayea betrnyed in his fece rising wrath. But he re- membered that, his vieitor might know, perhaps, more than he himeelf knew about the Will, and he resisted the temptation to nse swear words. 'Well,' he said, 'it's your own look-out. You know best. Whateverlfind I shan't give it away. Don't expeotit. Every- body knows me. There's nothing to hide, with me. I buy cheap and I seil dear. That 's uiy motto. I make a bargain and I stick to it.' ' Quite right, Mr. Mayea. Quite right. You are, indeed, the succeGsor of Mr. Norbery.' Five minutes afterwards, the Chevalier came back, bearing in a basket the potatoea and the chops. 'Chevalier,' his master called, 'put down the thinge and come here. Do you remeraber going through the papera I bought out of Lawyer Backler'a oflice, when he died five years ftgo?' The Chevaher ahook his head. ' You forget everything. I believe you've got a softening. If you took the intereat in your work that you ought, cousider- ing what you cost, you would remember.' ' How can I remember what happaned eefora I came here 1 Five years ago I had not the honour of serving you." ' fiumph I Come upstairs,' Mr. Mayes led the wiiy to the first floor. He unlocked the door of the back room. Tbera was no furniture in it at all, but 'Hur, Mr. I door of 1 1 find, finäi THE BELL OF ST. PAUVS the floor was piled with old Ictlcrs and papera, tied with red tape and covered with dust. They were lying just aa they bad been thrown out of the sacks when Mi. Mayes bought them. 'I got themoheap, Chevalier. Mr. Norberybegan theeolleo- tion. He Bhowed mo how to bny up old papers and to learn tba Beeret«. Wban he died I bought all bis. After tbe Trcasury people bad gone through thein in search of a Will, they sent theiu ofE to be deetroyed. But I st<ipt>ed the man, Just in time, I was. Said hia ordere were to take 'ein to the Mills. Orders be blowed I Let 'em stay wbere theyare.I says.giving him a peep at half-a- crown. Ob I I got the bundlu chatp. And then old Backler died and I got bis papers, too, tauch in the same way. Some day, I thonght, I would Bit down and read the lot. Look I There's the row of old Norbery's booka. Every transaction he ever bad in bis lila ia in tbese bookB. Thouaands of aeorets there I Thousands of ponnds to be mado out of them. Think of the family secrets 1 Think of the forgeries and embezzlements that havebeen bought off andaquared — nooneany tbewiaer I Think of the respectable men — churchwardena and deacons and eldera — they believe the old atory is doad and gone and forgotten I And think of going down with the proofs in yonr ponket. What will you give for this little bündle of papera, aays you ? Eh f Eh ? There's thousands in it. But I'm too busy. Besides, I don't lika reading papers. Chevalier, if I could only trust you to da it for mel ' Replied tbe Chevalier in bis soft and gentle voice : ' I have never leamed to say to a gentleman — Give me money or I will teil yonr Beeret.' ' No ; you never learned anything half so useful in yonr dam fool of a country,' said bis employer, who, it will be remarked, bad acquired the elements of saroasm. ' You're a Blockhead and an Aas,' he went on, falling back lipon more üuniliar and more readily handled weapons. ' Very Ultely. I muri be both or I sbould not be here. Shell I go below to prepare thepotatoes for the pot? ' ' I teil you what yoü shall do.' 1 1 am in your service. Command me.' 'Oet a ohair and a table and bring them here. Pile all these papera on one aide and read every one. Whenever yon come to one that's got the name of Norbery in it, lay it apart. Then go through these, and if you find anything about bis sister, or if you find bis Will, or if you find anything that'f important — but you won't — you're auch a confounded fool, Chevaher. How- , try — Mr. Norbery's siBter, you know.' I quite nnderstand. Mr. Norbery's sister. Ton wish to a secret ooncerning Mr. Norbery'a aister. Or yon wish to find a Will.' SOR TO S. NORBERY 53 'You aie to do nothing elae, Chevalier. Lordl Ifswortb ' , He had a eister, that young swell Said. Some of '«m usea to say so twenty yeara ago. You'U da nothing eise all day long, Chevalier, da you hear ? ' 'I suppose that I maystop the search in order to fry tha chops, and boil the potatoes, aud fetch tha beer.' 4 Nobleman I we nrnst eat.' Mr. Mayes conceded this point gracefully. ' Slack off for meala.' In tbi* office the word clerk inoluded the word cook. It is not usual. But why not? Both worda begin and end with the same letter. The Chevalier wm engaged aa clerk, a word which might, like the word doctor in a merchant ship, have two meaninge, That clerk is doubly valuable who can disb up a toothaome meal in a house where no servant is kept and only an old woman comes in morning and cveniug, like a laundress of Gray'a Ion, to remove the husks and Shells and shucka, and lo wash the plates. He is very valuable if yougethim so cheap aa Mr. Mayes got the Chevalier: hoursJrom eight to eigbt in re- turn for bed and board and — no, one cannot — must not — reveal the whole truth. There are Borna thinga — the marketable value ofa first novel : the priee received for a first picturo: and the salary giverj to such exiles as the Chevalier — which must not Le told. 'I wonder," Said Mr. Mayes in conclnaion, ' how the old man did leave bis raoney. I'm certain he never destroyed that Will, and I'm cortain he never made another. If ho had, he wonld have mn.de me witness it. As for leavingany to his oldest friend — meaning me — he wasn't made that way. Keop your eyes open over them papers, Chevalier.' His clerk inclined hü head gravely. * And I wonder who the young swell was. Wonldn't leave bisname and address. Saidhecamefrom Australia, Ah! Fröre Australia, he said. Who can there be in Australia belonging to Mr. Norbery ? I never heard hira mention Australia, I don't believe he knew that there was such a place. He talked pretty free towards the end, when bis wits began to wander, but I never heard bfm talk about Australia. But he had a Bieter. That young fellow knows more than ha would own to. I'm snre he knows about the sister. Perhaps he'e a lawyer'a clerk sent over to find out. Why should they send a man over 1 There's lote of lawyer'a clerks here. Perhaps he 's a friend. Perhaps he' s eome to make up a story. As for his not knowing about the Crown and the Batate and the reat of it, that's his artfulnosa, Chevalier. Mind that. And now let's find out what wecan, I wonder who the fellow is.' The Chevalier, who had begun to turn over aomeof the dnsty papers, made no reply at all, Perhaps he hadforgotten the fact 54 THE BELL OF ST. PAULS that he knew the nama of the young gentleman : perhaps he waa el dient Chevalier, who only auswored whon he was questi<">n<Hl. Perhapa he Ihought that bis duty was Bimply to obey Orders. Perhaps he was not liatening. This is possible, because tha dust of the papera at this uioaient caused kiin to aneeze with CHÄPTEB VLT. Lättrence !eft the Successor to 8. Norbery and tnmed City- wardfl, hia rnind a wreck, gone to piocc-s upnn the Hock of tha Unexpeeted. Only an hour before he had saUied forth serenely confident, his mother'a Instructions in hia pocket, anxious only abotit taking the first Etep. Well. That first step had been taken, andlol it waalikennto the historieal kick whieh ahattered the Castle of Cards. There was no 'Will : it tnust therefore hava been deatroyed. Wills, ho knew very well, aro nevor lost ; they are kept earefully in streng boxen : they aro aometimea kept in dnplicata : the drafts or original Instructions of the client are kept as well: all the papera conceming the Will witnesaedby tha man Mayes muat have been kept by the solicitor who drew it, unlesB he had reeeived instmetions to destroy them. Moreorer, hia mother had nothing to go upon but the aBsnrance — certainly it bore the appearance of truth — of an angry man. There was no other proof that this "Will, whieh had been imdoubtedly executed, bequeathed the Property to his honsekeeper. Again, Clement Indagine — here was the most extraordinary thing in the world — must know that he was the nephew, and therefore, failing any will, the heir : why in the name of Wonder did he not claim the ostata? Why did he allow the Crown to take his property — hia own tmdoubted property ? And, thtngs being so, wbat furthe* businesB had he hiraself lipon Bank Side ? Why not go back to hia liotel and addroBB himself seriously to the Theatrea, tha Pictore Galleriee, the Restaurants and the streets of the Weat End — the only part of London whieh, aa a rule, the Colonial visitor ever aees ? On the whole he feit inclined to resent thia turn of afiairs. Sinco ho could not enact the part, melodramatio but always affective, of the man who turne up in the last act to set everything right, why not go away at once ? Anybody whopleaaes may fill up thespaeeindicatedby theaa nc of ON THE BRIDGE $S stara. It muat be devoted to following up the fnitber thoughts of this young man, rudely doprived of the power of doing, in order to gratify bis mother, a. really great, noble, virtuous, and disinterested action — that of s ßignal Reparation of a Great Wrong— all in capitala. This blow naturally made him, for the moment, sulky. When we follow with tho tourists — a Weating flock— who come to look at the ehow plare of aome great Lord, and when we bear the heavy and heartfelt aighs which eacape theru aa thoy are peraonally conducted through tbe old hall, to the iibrary, (o tbe drawing-roorn, to tbe diniog-room, to the gardons, to the atabloa, we muat always remembor that these are not tbe sigha of spite against fortune wbich haa left this flock so poor, but of sorrow that thoy are not ao rieh aa to do great and noble deeda. With the key furnished by auch a reflection, nothing ia eaaier than to fdl up this spaee. How greatly would many modern hiatoriea be improved if auch Spaces were left everywhere between tbe ineidenta, for the reader tu All up out of lue own imaginative head I I aay, therefore, this apaoe being now filled np, that Lsurence was naturally sulky and resentful against Fortune, that poor goddesB who for one grateful friend — and be cever half grateful enough— makes every day a thouaand enemiea. One short hour before, be was the beir to a Property — he knew not how big it was, or how little — with which he waa about to deal »n a most noble and princely manner. Now he had leamed, Ural, that the Property was of Baronial dimansions: a tliing which would hare made the Renunciation all the more noble: and, aecondly, that hia mother was not the beir toit, and that he bimself would have no ahare or part in it at all. When he arrived at the Bridge, he crossed to the west side and leaned over the iron railinga, atill considering the new Position. Bank Side lay at bis feet : not the Bank bathed hl grinset glow : but the Bank in the niorning, looking griniy, narrow and cumbered with manywares; the Bank in tha füll flow and running tide of activity : every Wharf and every Factory working with zeal : the Steam Hammers justifying the cost of their ereetion : thecraneaawingingnoisily : mencarrying heavy cratea on their backe or wheeliiig fall barrows up and down pUnka between the Bank and tho bargea. All theae thinga, at first, he saw, yet eaw not : in order really to aee thinga you want not only eyes but a mind bent on seeing. If, for instance, you stand Beide to watch the faoes in the City Streets, von will ohserve, as the inen walk swiftly along, that most of them aee nothing. Tbey go from end to end of Cheapside and see noue of the thinga on the road, on the pavement, or in the shops. Millions of tbings go on »round us in the town as well aa in the country without any man seeing or regarding them. We are I THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S only cnrioQB concerning the things we know. Perhaps, sinee oo moment of tinie evei really dies, but passes away and then lives evcr afterwards in the miud, one may in öfter agoB recall thesa things and reflect how mucli rioher Ufa mighthave been bad we dwolt on our own affairs leas and kcpt out minds more opeu to the thinga without. Laurence, therefore, leaned ovecthese rail. ings and looked down upnn tho River and the Bank with ayaa Wide open, yet aaw nothing, being wholly oceupied with thifl tad reverBe of fortuue. He was in a trance. This trance laated I know not how long — nor does it matter, because in such a trance as thiB, when the mind ia at work bul wholly disconnected with the body, time does notexist. It indncea the anasathetio sleep : the eyesare open and the bodywalksabont, dodges cabs, andavoidspeople ; yet nothing is seen, feit, orheard. Sometimes it lasts bnt a second of time : aomethnea it laata a whole day : — nay, there aromen aorapt intheirown oocupationa tliat tbey see nothing eise, whatever passes before their eyeE, all their livea. This trance, however, cama to an end. Gradually, and little by little, Laurence discovered that just below hini there was going on a great deal of businoss and hüstle : he began to hear the noiae of it i he began to aoo the activity of it. Tina waa a sign that the trance was working itself out. Then, recovering conseiouaneEB, he passed through the Btage of passive htaring and soeing, and began uncons-cioualy to exercise the power of Selection. A blesaed thing it is for man that he can eierciaa the power of Selection. Not 60 see all groups, bnt one group : not to hear all the noisc, bnt only a part of it, as when yoa prefer the tailt of your companion to the rolling of the oarts: not to fall in love with all aweet maidens, bnt with one. Laurence heard co more the noiaes below, nor did he aee the men at work, because hia eye waa caught by a little group of two andby a little comedietta that waa being played before hiTn in dumb show by two persona. Tbey stood where an idle crane left a cirole free of rusty iron, easks, bricks, pipes or any other merchandise — a crane is a thing which insists on respect and elbow room. The circlewaa closed in and aeparated from tho vidgnr gaze of Bank Side ontwoaides : on one by the house or cottage belonging to themacliinery of the steain orane : on another side by an irregulär stack of rusty iron chains, old plates and bits of boilera. The crane atood npon tha Bank and the Bank looked upon the river, and there was the low wooden wall of thick planks, the like of which are now no longer uaed, to protect those who stood there. Probably Cottle tha Eider, the Ikst Academician, witnessed the aetting np of this aea- walt. It waa a stränge spot for a trysting -place — if this was a trysting -place. For one of the two was the girl whose aubum hair ON THE BRIDGE 57 the Bnneet had turned int gold wh.cn ehe rowed t ho skiff straighl «rat of the West. Sbe looked etraagelyinoongruouB in thiagrimy place, Standing ander the creino in. her light grey costuwo wiih the bunch of flowers at her throat. As incongruous — aa out of place — would be the apparition of Venus herself npon a hill of Middlesboro' elag. ' It ia Althea herseif,' seid Laurence. ' It ig Althea Indagine. It ia the Goddess of the Sunset. And the fellow with her ia Oliver Luttrel, the cbap wbo is going to be the President of the Boyal Society. I wonder what they are doing on Bank Side in the morning. "Wby is not the Pride of Science in hisLaboratory? Why ia not the GoddeBs in her little Heaven ? Why doea ehe linger on Sank Side — when there are Parks and lovely places ehewhere :— on Bank Side — among the wheelbarrows and the rusty iron ? How grubby it looks in the morning I And how splendid it looked last night I Althea,' he said, taking advantag» of his position, 'looks almost better in her natural coloura tlian when the Bimset threw a golden oloud abouther. Am I an eaves- dropper? Is it mean to watch.? But at least I oannot hear what they say. To watch. Althea — myself nnseen — ia a venia! and a pleasant sin.' He could not bear her voice, it ia trne, bat ha became intereated in the dumb show which followed. And since in ordiaary conversation young people do notuae the little exaggera- tions of gesture with which the mime emphasiEes the Situation, the plot of the little drama was diffieidt to make out. A short- aighted man would have aeen from the Bridge nothing but ft young man and a girl talking together. Well, thia happena everywhere. To bim there would have been no comedy at all. But the young Australian had eycs as good as any sailor — as keen aa any gamekeeper. He saw, not only the little gestures which a frigid civilisation still a-llows for the indication of emotion, but a tell-tale play of eyes and face and colour. The eay was eimple and without mu.ch incident. Yet it held the ouse — consiKting of one speetator. The young man Oliver said Bomething. He said it with meaning and he looked at the girl steadily when he The girl started and changed colour. Thcn ehe replied, speaking qnickly, as eould be aeen by the movement of her lips. And she turned away and looked out upon the river. He made another little speech, and from the motion of his handa in wae evident that he wiahed to conciliate her, but sbo shook hei bead. ' Have th&y quarrelled 1 ' said Laurenoe. * Is it a lovers' uff? Can Althea— Althea— be engaged to that little black beaat?' I J8 THE BELL OF ST. PAULS Tlif'ii sbe tnmed upon hiin and eeemed to .speak out st Bomo Il-D-M li anJ v. i'.li frccdom. He laughed — it La not pretty to ses a man laugh if you cannot haar hira &s well. And ehe BtOpped speaking and turned her face again to the river. ' It looka uiore than a lovera' quarrel,' Said Lanronce. ' She is really angiy with him.' Then it was the other aetor's tum. Hb eiplained the Position, using hands and head and always gazing lipon the girl. Then Ina hond went out and tried to tako hera. She enatched it away and replied. She was evidently much moved, and her eyes filledwith teare. Then ehe spuke again. She was rsrnonatrating with him or entreating him to do something. He listened with a dogged, shibbom bearing. Then she turned away and left him standing upon the Bank ' It is all over," said Lanrence. Not quite. For as he looked again he eaw the face of the yonng man change suddenly and curiously. He was clearly in a rage : wben the girl was gone hie mouth widened ; hie nose fl&ttened : his eyes seemed to sink inte aocketa. ' Good Lord! ' cried Laurenco. ' What an ngly beast it is 1 He looks like a skull with the hair on.' Perhaps the position of the spectator — up in the gallery ao to speak — assisted in producicg this stränge effect. 1 What does it all mean ? ? he asked, his interoat tboroughly awakened. ' I believe the futiu-e President of the Royal Society has asked the Goddess of the Sunset to be his bride and ehe has refnsed him becauae he ia ao ngly. Yet, no — I never heard of anyman being refnsed becauae he was ugly. Women don't care two pence about a man's looks. Perhaps he has done some- thing. Can he have stolen a bärge ? Ür, perhaps the Goddess has no yeaming for Science. Sbe looked at one time as if she was answering some threat. Could he be such a benst as to threaten her ? No. That is impossible. If I thought that ; I would ... I would . . . step down the Blairs and chuck hirn into the river. Bnt he could not.' 'Yet what matter ia it to mo?' he went on. 'I've got nothing to do here. My motber'e letter is now so nauch waste paper. And yet that girl ' He became pensivo. ' I muat weit a little if only to find out what they are all about. There is the poet,' he aaid, 'who is a poor poet and yet refuses to litt bis little finget to become wealthy — why? There have been plenty of poor poeta since the world began, bnt I never re- member a poor poet who might have been rieh if he had chosen. And there is the Patriot — not to apeak of the respect- able Mayes. A story is gointf on of which I cannot guesi ON THE BRIDGE 59 either the beginning, or the middle, or the end. Now, if I stay, I shall perhaps find out this ßtory. That will be interesting and perhaps it wül not take very long. And, if I am lucky, I shall be able tö strike a blow on the right side — that is, of course, the aide of Althea. I shall call it the Story of the Silent Heir, or the Heart of Althea. Other people may call it what they like : that is what I mean to call it* THE BELL OF ST. PAULS I DJ RETIRE ME ST. When the Cathedra! Bell began to etrike nine, in the leiaurely and dignified mannor proper to a Cathedra! Bell, Althea put down her work and proeeedeä to make certain arrangetnentB. That they were psrt of tho daily routine waa manifest by the nnheaitating and mechanical luanncr in which ahe performed her task. A. ship'e Steward could not lay the eloth, even for the EÜth time in the day, with less waate of tiine for eocaideration than Althea showed in setting out the little round table ob the hearthrug, placing the chess-board npon it, arranging the piecea, and putting the two armchaü-B in position. Everybody would linder stand at once, merely from her inanner of doing it, that the game of cheaa was a daily pastime. The addition of two pipea, a jar of tobacco, and a box of lighta ehowed that the players were raen. And bo rapidly did Ehe rnake theae prepara- tions that tho last atroke of nine waa BtOl ringingand reaounding in the air when Ehe added tbo tobaeco aa the finishing toueh. The room was that ona in the houae with the Doric pillara, towhich twenty years before Dr. Luttrel had brought the little gipsy. The only change of arty importanca made during thia liing period had been the addition of a piano laden with music. There were also a fewflowers in a glaas — I believethat formerly there were no flowera : and, if anything eise, thore was the presence of ' work.' The wholeof woman'a hiatory is contained in the special moaning of that word. A man's work may bö Eymboliüed by the apade, the pen, tha chiael — by every inatrii- ment that bis wit haa deviseä : for a woman'a work the needla is the only aymbol. Courage, my Biäters : the world changea andyon shall be changed— we wliall all be changed. In another generation yon ahall, if you wish, aa no doubt yon will wish, wield the Epade and brandish the pitchfork; you shall oarry tbe rille and handle the heavy ordnance. Perhaps the curtains — I believe that formerly there were no curtainB— betrayed ft woman'a preaence : mere mnn would have been contented with white blinds, or green veneti&ns, or, at least, with hanghips lesa dainty. The Windows, which gave npon New Thamea Street, i open ot the top, for reasona which could be explained IN RETIREMEN by residente in that atreet to the füll aatisfaction of enrious inquirers. If, gentle reador, yon livcd in New Thames Street, you wonld open your Windows at the top. There was a book- case full of books : they were works of modern literature and poetry. Bnt a man of letters would not fall to note tbat there were no new books among them. And though there were booka on the table, there were no Journals, magazines, or new novels. One or two oil paintings Irans; on the wall — landscapes of an old-füshioned kind, imitations of the nmsters of tifty yoars ago. On the mantelshelf reated a photr^-nph in a frame: it was the likenesa of a yotm« man in the liule cap, the ahaw] oyer the Shoulder, and the boote of a Heidelberg student — nane other, iu fact, than Oliyer, oo.ee the gipsy, now a Lecturer io Physicol Kcieuce, newly mado and youngest Fetlow of the Koyal Sooieiy. Over the mantelshelf hung a large portrait in orayona repre- eenting another young man. He wore long flowing eurls and forehead ; bis whiakers also appeared to hava feit the tender influenae of the curling irons : his fiead was thrown back as if in defianoe of the world : hia right hand, Üib position of which was artietically indicated by a single etroke or two, was thrnst into hia bosom : hia Ups were parted — they wäre frank, eager, mobile, delicate, sensitive, curved Jips : tho annähme lay upon thosu lipu—no other sunshine than that of the Muaea' Bmilee: biB eyes, which matehed tho Ups and were at once scomfiü, inspired, terrible, loving, large and füll, öashed with a light of geniua such aa, I am very certaia, no portrait painter of the present day wonld dare to give to the most richly endowed of bring men — but in tfaoae days the light which nover ahone from mortal eyes was considered necessary and becoming and natural in the portraita of poeta and men of geniua. Have we not seen it flashing from the eyoe of Byron, Keats, Shelley? Nay — no rhymester so emall but he too must have the bright and piercing light of inepiration glowing in hia eyes. Photography hau killed the eye in a fine frenzy rolling. There are even poeta whose eyea are fishy. Under the portrait was the autograph of the eubjeet, written in a fine tiowing hand, with a flouriah at the end— most men of genins formerly cultivated a characteristio. flourish after their name— 'Clement Indagine.' The date of the portrait— 18.")1 — was also added. When Althea had completed her arrangement of the chese- table ehe stood for a moment — as even the ship's ateward above mentioned will do when he has laid even his soventh or eighth cloth of the day — to catch the artietio effect. We are always, when one comes to think of it, setting the scene for the Best Act, and Woman is the doinestic stage manager. It was the last Act of the day for which sho sei thiB scene : the eilest game r 6a THE BELL OF ST. PAULS of eheaa and tlie evening tobaeco witb which her father the Poel and her nncle the Dootor fimshed the day, whila she Bat beeide them, also in ailence, working or rending, unless ehe played Boftly so ae not to disturb the combmatioua of the game ; eave for her niusic the houae waa very ailent alwayB. Theo the door opened and the original of the crayon portrait appeared. You have aeen him already— the man with the long white flowing hair and the brown velvet jacket. Hia curly black whiakera had now grown downwards and inade a beantiful white beard, but he waa etill to be recogniBed aa the natural development of the portrait of 1851. Maiiy men at aixty are not the natural development, but the diatortion, of their own portraita at five-and-twenty. Älthea greeted him witb a smile 011 her lipa and a doubt in her eyea. Sonicthing unusual, aha perceived, had happened. Her father 's eyes were restleas : hia handa were trenibling: hia check waa flushod: there was ' Well, doar,' aha said, ' yon have been on the Bank this evening ? Did you speak to anyone ? The Doetor was called out an hour ago. Will you wait for Mm, or will you take your pipe at onoe ? ' ' Called out, waa he ? Sick people show a great want of consideration aometimes. No, dear — no — I will wait a little.' He sat down and begaa mecbanically to play with the pawriB, opening with an old and iavourita gambit. 'Yea, ohild, yea.' He answered her question with a curioua abruptness, ' Yea, I have been on the Bank. Lucius Cottle waa there, and the Chevalier waa there, and a atranger, a young gentleman, was with them — and — and— a very curioua and remarkable thing happened — I am not sorry that the Doetor haa been called out — a very alrange thing indeed, a thiug which I never looked for — I would ratber talk it over quietly with you, bofore be Cornea back. Yet, to be sure, it ought not to be stränge. You will not be snrprifled, I dare eay, thoug-h you will certainly be pleaaed.' ' What was it ? The young gentleman was Mr. Laurents Waller, I euppose, the new lodger at the CotUea'.' ' Possibly. Possibly. What intereat have I in the man? None whatever. What doea it matter to me if a man takes a lodging on Bank Side on pnrpoae to look at me ? ' ' To look at you ? ' ' To look at me, Althea,' he repcated aternly, as if there must not be allowed the leaat doubt upon that point. 'Äs I passed tliis Company of three and nodded to Lucius the young man gazed at me with a curiosity and intereat which would have been impertinent, but that 1 overheard bim whiaper to Lucius Cottle,"Oh! Isthatreally tbe Poet ?— Eeally, the Poet?" ha asked. Ä eecond time and a third time I peased them on my -IN RET1REMENT 63 walle to and fro, and every time that young n with eyea of cimosity, Well, Althea, I cannot help it.' He leanetl back in an attitude of resignation. ? If the world has at last found out my retreat I must a banden any fuither pretenoe and just espect to be besieged. It may be natural, no doubt, tut it ia, I oonfess, unespected. I might have espected it thirty yeara ago. Then it w.onld have aeerned mora natural. Now, it cauaea a certain kind of shock. Yet it is cot unpleasing.' ' Mr. Waller has come from A-nstralia,' aaid bis daughter, wondering. 'He told me that he had come on business. To be Bure that need not prevent him from showing a natural curioaity in the appearance of a poet.' 1 Froro Auatralia I Come from Anatralia 1 All that distance on purpose to look upon rny face 1 ' He leanad back in bis chair and cloeed hia eyea. ' Thia, Althea, is gratifying. I eonfess that it gratifies me very much. It ia one of the few clear and tangible proofs of Farne which meet us. We poets move the world, but sometimea only know it by repeated Editions. Sometimes I have thought that I did wrong not to read the papera. I ehould at loast havo caught the regreta of the world — ita regreta and ita repentance for having silenced a Poet— as if Poets were as plentiful as cob-nuts l But no — no — the regrets would have come too late, Let me have no more — no more — to do with the preaent.' He got up and looked at his own portrait. ' Thirty yeara aga,' he said alghing, ' I waa thirty yeara old. It waa young to be driven from the world. Bnt Keatswas killed — they killed him— at an earlier age. Where are they — the man who drove nie forth 1 Dead perhaps — forgotten perhapa— langniahmg, very likely— long since in inerited obscurity. As for the man they hounded down, people now come from the uttermost parts of the earth — I aay, Althea, from the uttermost parts of the earth — only to gaze upon him. I am now old, but they havo not forgotten me. They have forgotten, I think, the men who did the wrong; but the Poet they have not forgotten.' ' They can never forget you, father.' ? Aa I oame home,' he eaid with such an elation m his Toioe and such a Light in hia eyea — though Etiil far short of the electrlc spark shown in the Portrait— aa his daughter had never before witnessed, ' I began to consider what this toight msan. And I widerstand now — oh ! yea '—his voiee Bank to a happy mnrinur. ? Ton have made me widerstand, my dear. Tho love of the Engl iah -speaki n g races for a Poet doea not begin in far Australia : it is carried thither from home — from these ahores ; it begina at home : if a, man'a fame ia firmly eatablished over there it must be still more firmly planled here. Do you follow mo so far, Althea? Xt must be still more firaily planted here. Very welL THE BELL OF ST. PAÜL'S Then think. My poeme mnst therefore be, by thia time, honse- hold worda. They must be learned in sehools and quoted in articles : they must have been made, long aince, the aubject of easays andcriticiam — reverent criticism — intbe great Quarte ilies, which movo the thought of the world ' — it haa been already explained that thia Poet lived still in the Fii'ties, when the great Qnarterliea were atill great. ' And they must be read,' he con- tinued, ' in America and . . . and . , .' He tuxned quite pale and tottered. The thought of hia own greatness, thus grown Bilently and unperoeived by himself, was too miich for bin-] . ' And now they come, from the nttermost enda of the world, only to gaze — to gaze lipon the Poat. If they love mo so much in Auetralia, what must they do in England — in London — across the river— almost at my very feet ? ' ' Oh I ' His daughter was carried away with bim by thia Vision of Universal Farne. ' If they love yoo. in Auatralia, they must love you ten times as mach at home.' ' There cannot be a doubt, my doar,' ha replied, trying to bfi cold. ' I aee it all plainly. Whüe I have been waiting here in obacurity_ the Poems have been alowly — slowly, but anrely — sinking into the hearts of the people and cirehng wider and wider over the world. All the way from Australia I Then think of the power which thoee poems must have become— here-^ there — in America — everywhere — all round the globe — the habit- able globe. The Englishman speaks to half the globe — nothing lese. "Why, my dear, a man onght to be aatisöed with such success as thia. It atones. My daughter, teil me ' — he spread out his arms as if they hadbeen the wings of PogaaUH — 'teil me —have 1 lived in vain ? ' He did not expect any answer to thia qnestion— -nor was there any answer possible aave the murmurous aasen! of fi lial piety. Then he turned to the bookcase and took down a volume — it was an octavo of the form alwaya nntil qnite recently uaed by poets — and hold it affectionately between hia two handa. ' I cannot open it, Althea,' he eaid, cuddlingandhnggingandpreSB- ing the volume to his boaom. 'Never onoe, sinoe I retired, have I desired to open it. This, my dear, is what the World eannot understand. It is the aaoredneaa of verse : of thia book have I made an altar on which I have laid all that ia best and nablest in myeelf.' He bowed bis heod over hie own book as oce who worahips. And his eyea softened and glowed. ' Having placed it there, and knelt before the altar, and prayed awhile, I oame away. The preeious part of roe — tho Immortal part — is here— between tbese two boarda.' His eyea grew humid, his voioe rank. He fondled the book again affectionately and replaoed it on the shelf. ' It is for othera to read it now, not for me. I have done my part. It is for yon, my child, to nse it for the oplifting and thp strenathonmg of your soul. Teb — yea — I know. You have so useJ it— y^s — yea — in your thooghts and in your daily eonversation — I have walehed you day by day — I have Seen the influenae of that versa. Froin oommunion with hia nätry at last yon rellect your father's ruind. My dear,' he i his hand tenderly on Altliea's head, ' if I had but one readcr in all the world, and that rtader were uiy daiif,diter, I shouli not have lived invuin.' He sighcd ag&m, and deseended to a Tower level. ' Teil me about thia young man from AuBtralia,' he said, »Hing down. ' Ha aays he has come on business from Auetralia, does he ? Ai!-:i süan liimimwll on Bank Side ? Is the colony of New South Wales going to buy scrap iron and empty petroleum oasks ? And ho actually takes a hid^ing in Bank Side I I have üved bere for thirty yeare und I hnve never bcfore heard of a Btranger eoming to livo for ehoice in Bank Side. Wby ahould he ? He calls it business, does he ? My dear, the excuse is too transparent. But he is yonng and we will exouae him. Business! Ha! ha! Yonth is modest and doea not like to eonfaaa even ita enthusiaam. Why, after all, I like him all the better for it. Tlieae reticences, these shrinkinga, theae hesita- tions — they are Bometimea tbe note of a great mind — I like him all the better. Well, my dear, I thought to have slipped throngh life unseen. Bat it seems as if that dream was to be dispelled.' ' Dear father,' aaid Altbea, taking his hand, ' yon mnst think of me and of my prido in you if people come to look at yon.' Bhe was now perfeetly and completely carried away by thia viaion of populsrhy. ' Bemember that the more populär yoa become, the prouder it will mn.ke me. But, indeed, 1 eould never be prouder of my father— whate vor glory may be showered upon bim — than I am already. 1 ? The aight of that yonng man,' the Poet continued, getting np again reatlessly, ' haa brought back the memory of the old life. Why ? I do not know. It forcea itaelf upon me now and theo unbidden. The old life among the wits and thepoets. We aat in Fleet Street Taverns — there were the Cook and the Cheshire Cheeae and the Rainbow and the Mitre and Dick's — over port and whisky punch — Dickens used to iroike gin punch, I remeruber — and we talkcd tili the amall houra : and such talk 1 I Buppoee they sit there still to driuk and talk t Bat inost of them must be dead. Thirty yeara ago I Thackeray and Dickens and— oh 1 1 knew them all — I knew tbem. I aat in familiär intereourse with them all. There were Charlea Ueado, Mark Lcmon, Sliirley Brooks, Albert Smith, Bulwer Lytton, Monekton Milnea, Douglaa Jerrold — I cannot remember all their namea. Whero are they all now? It was a glorious time. THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S And I was with them and ono of them. And yet they auffered me — these my frienda eufferod nie — to be driven out thruugh jealousy and apite. Well : it ia long ago now, and an old story. Althea, I am restless thifl evening.' He shivered as one that hath a fever upon him. ' I feel aa if aomething was impending. I feel us if I must go back to those taverns and be welcomed by my old frienda in tho time of triuniph. — I am diatnrbed. — Some- thing is going to huppen.' ' fiHher !— all becauae a young gentleman looked at yon 1 ' ' öomething, my dear,' he repeated obstinately, ' is certainly going to happen.' He sat down again and took up bis pipe as if be wonld show how a true Fhilosopher shouldconfront anyfcte. It was, if you consider it, a aale thing to pmpheey because the word ' aomething ' covera a large area and tnay be interpreted in many ways, as, for instance, a disnppointinent with a break- faat egg at one end of thinga, or an earthquake at the other etld. In thia caae the Prophet was» jnatified by the event becauae aomething did happen. The stowt do<H WM opened andslamined and voicea were heard in the Hall. Althea started. One of them woa the voiee of their ne w aequaintaiice — the very atranger from Auatralia of whom they Lad been talking. Althea started, becauae a viait from a new aeqnaintance was an ahBolutely unique event in her esperience. Hhe waa nownineteen yeara of age. Not once during her whole lifo had she ever before known the arrival of a stranger. Their family cirele was never broken. Oliver, before he went to Germany and was still at St. Olave'a School, brought no boys hame to Bank Side i the Cottle girla ran in and out as they plesseä. : but no visitor ever called. ' Clement,' said the Doctor oheerily, ' Ihave brought a young gentleman from Australia who desirea the honour of your aeqnaintance.' ' The great honour,' aaid thia atranger. Mr. Indagine bowed coldly— such tribute to a poet must be reoeived as of everyday oecurrence : but then hia natural good- sess of heart came back to him and he held out hia hand. ' I am very pleaaed, Sir,' he said, ' to reeeive you. We livo retired and— and in fact — we aee few viaitors. "You have come from Ai'stralia ' — it waa not in human naturetorefrain from one look of triumph in the diveetion of hia daughter— ' all ihe way from Auatralia in order to obtain this tntroduetion ? ' ' It was one of the reasona of my journey,' uaid the young man with trnth. ' And what, Sir,' asked Mr. Indagine, ' does the Australian— the Antilpoda world — aay now oi'the attaek — the ferocious and nnprecedented attaek — whieh drovo me out of human aoeiety ? ' 'Ab.!' the Doctor eehoed, 'what do they aay now?' Why — really '— Laurence showed a momentary oonfuaion — IN RETIREMENT ' we are n young people and have hardly yet begun to di thinga literary, Among those, however, who know tha cir stuncea, there is but one opinion.' ' There ean be but one opinion,' aaid tha Doetor. The Poet bowed. ' It is gratifyiiig to find the world vinced at last. And which, Sir, oi' the poems ia your eapecial favourite 1 ' ' I have no favourite," Laurence replied haatily and avoiding Althea's eyes which were turaed upon bim, eipeetant. ' Do not question nie about your poema., Sir, or I may bö led to Bpeak in your presence too warmly.' 1 Nay, nay ' — Mr. Indagine actually laughed — when had Althea aeen him laugh beibre? 'Well: you niay reapect the modeaty of an author, young gentleman, in hia pi-ßaence : but — outside— outside — eay all yuu think and feel — freely. Now let de Li!];. Althea, my dear, play aumethmg softly. Gentle mnaio eneourages ideas.' The cheaa-board waa negleeted: thepipe waslaiddown : and the Man of Letters appeared. Mr. Indagine talked. When people live t^ u- -Uior u Ptosis liüal they leave off talking nnleaa sornetliing unexpected happerm, or unleea, whieh is not uncounnon, they belong to that social level which ia perpetually oecupied with the benaviour of the brothers, aiatera, uncles, aunta, couains, nepbews, nieces and aisters-io-law. That be- haviour, which is alwaya such aa could never have been expected, furniahea a topio which endures throughout the langest life, is always freah and ia alwaya intereating. But in tliia cirele thera were no near relatione whoaa condact could be discussed. Mr. Indagine had married the Dector'a only aiater, who waa dead ; and hia own brother had long aince gona away and disappeared. It will, therefore, be underatood that thoee two elderly geutleincn had for many yeara ceaaed to talk mueb. Therefore it was aa if the Poet should break out in a new line when he began to diaconrae upon literature. It was also aa if he were letting free a floed long dammed np. Or as if lie were pouring out of a veaacl füll to the brim and overflowing ; or aa if he had been waiting all these yeare for a aympatlietic liatener. The Doctor, in fact, waa not poaaeased of the literary mind. Althea meanwHle oontinued to play : it was old muBie— Weber 'b Last Wal tz— one of the Songa without Words — musio that flowed softly and fiUed tha mind with peace and made the imaginatlon aa was to be moulded by the Speaker. The Australian disciple, to whom the diacusaion was addreaaed, liatened to the Saga with great daforance, eccasionally inclining hia head in order ta show that hia attention was riyeted and that he did not niean to lose one Single word. ? THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S The disconrse was remariable not only becanse it tnrned wholly lipon the Literature of the Fifties — »ny essayist might have done the same thing — but becanse it spoke of these works as if they were the neweat thing« out, and becanse the Speaker employed in flluatrating hie points the echoes of that time. The great books of the Fifties include ' In Memoriam,' ' David Copperfield,' ' Egmond,' ' The Wonian in White,' ' Adam Bede,' ' Cranford,' ' Christie Johnaton,' and ' Hypatia,' atnong many others. ThisDecadehath,forsooth,agoodlyrccord. Tetitimistbe owned that between the current ideas of '88 and those of '58 there is a gnlf of more than thirty years. To listen to the old man whitehaired, eloquent, who igtiored all that had been done since the latter date, caused a cnrions and not unpleasant Sensation. Laurence began pleasantly to feel aa if he were hirnseif trans- ported back to the Fifiiea and was gitting in judgment not npon hie anoestors bnt npon bis coo temporär! es. Ho was at the Tavern, in the cirele of the very men themselves. Thaekeray oame in and went out : Douglas Jerrold Bald a good thing füll of impudenee : Dickens looked in and laughed: the niyht was young and the cirele was füll. The presence of the girl altting besida him on her music-Btool did Bot interfere with thia Vision of the Past — One who falls into Buch a Vision sees throngh solid bodies, dressea, furniture, and the like. If Ghosts are transparent, so also are solid things wben Ghoets are behind them. If the Poet conld so chanu them with speech alone, what conld he not do if he were to begin to sing ? In the middle of the talk, the other young man, Oliver, opened the door and atole qnietly in. He taoked extremely sur- prised at the sight of the visitor and sat down in silence. But the magieian had no power over Oliver. He remained in the Present, and looked on with eyes which betrayed boredom and lack of interest. At last the talker ran down. Then they all came back to the Present again, and sat no longer at the Garrick Club or in Cock or Kambow Tavern, but in the little rooro of the house in New IThames Street which leadeth off Bank Side. 'We will talk again, young gentlemnn,' aaid Mr. Indagine, in eonclusion. ' Tour views are sotmd and your observationa show reading and graap.' Laurence had not utterod one word. 1 Come again and come often while you stay in London. It ia pleasing and novel to leurn the literary and pootieal attitude of Australia. There ia not in thia civilised part of London one Single Club or Tavern at which a man may hope to find a soholar or a poot. Tot tho tavorns atill stand in which Shake- speare and Ms friends caroused near the Globe and the Böse. Ihere is not here even a aecoed-hand book shop.' 'He muBt not go yet,' cried the Doctor. 'What? Has Bank Side no hospitality ? AUhea, my dear, Mr. Waller will take * This ib an age of Apolünaria water. Therefore, one most refrain trom eiplaining what it was that Laurente was offered and what he accepted. Suffice it to aay that tho Poet took Bome and the Doctor too, and that Laurence took tobacco with it, and that it waa in a bijj glass and sparkled if held up to the light. The Poet relapaed into aüencp, but he sat with a benignant amile, and he suffered, without a umnnur, the coaversation to run on quitc modern topics and things of local intereat. Then Laurence spoke of Bank Side and of the people he had already mct, eapecially the interesting family of the Cottles. And then, looking furtively at the Poet, he laonched & question. It waa a question even more closely connected with hie vUife lhan the immortol poems. 'There waa once,' he Baid slowly, 'a certain Mr. Norbery living near here. Did yon know anything of bim 1 ' He ad- dressed the Doctor, but he looked, as has been said, towaräs the Poet. This innocent question feil into the circle like a bomb-ahell. Mr. Indagine started violently and hia face beeame a deep Orimaon. The Doctor also started and looked at his brother-in- law as if curious to see how he would take it. And AJtbea laid her hand upoa her father as if to aoothe and restrain him. And Oliver looked auspicioua. What had he done ? I He is dead. Mr. Norbery ig dead,' said the Doctor. ? Ho died nve yeara ago. Lei üb not taük about bim.' 'He was a bad man.' Mr. Indagine sat up with a sudden change of mann er as if atung into rage. ' A hard, cruel ' Yea, father, yes. But he is äead,' aaid Althea, patting his • Is he dead ? Lot bis narne be never mentionod in mj hearing.' I I am truly sorry,' said Lanrence, ' that I did mentton it.' 1 Is he dead ? ' Mr. Indagine repeated. ' I have never oared to ask whether he was alive or dead. If he is dead and can da no more härm, so inucli the better for the world. Lcc as all forget his name as speedily as may be.' ' Why— ' thought Lauronca, ' they actually know nothing I ' But Oliver looked at him with suspicion from the black pent- house of bis thiek a yehrowa. But Mr. Indagine'a wrath died out like a fire of ahavinga, and he settled hiiaself again in his chair. ' 8ay no more, young gentlcman. Say no more. Ton have helped me to a ploasant eveniug. You have brought me a lanrel from Australia. I should not be human if I were not gratified. 70 THE BELL 0F ST. PAULS Come oftea and talk with me. We will not Bpeak of ignobl« peopla— bnt of the Muses and their favourites. We will wander among the asphodela of Parnasaua. Good night, Sir,' he graaped Laurence's hand warmly. ' Good night, my dear Sir — eonie !!?;.;:. — come often.' CHAPTER II. FAIR FBIHNDS1 Once more AJthea stood at the head of the Stilire, dresaed for the river in a atraw hat and a looeu jaeket (hat left her arma free. The boat was rocking with the ewell of the tide at her feet : beeide her sTood her iiisw acquaintance, Mr. Laurence Waller. ' If you would really like to come with me,' ehe said. ' I generaOy go alone: but if you are aure that you would like ' 1 1 ahould like nothing better,' he replied. ' Let me take tha sculle and you ahall Bteer and teil nie about the river aa we go. Etuiüruber that I Unve never been on it yet.' It was Saturday afternoon, a little after two. Work was knocked off: the men hart eeascd to run up and down thcplanka with their baskets of broken glase or their loada of ecrap iion ; the great gatca of the wharvca wore cloacd : the barges were left alone with their rai'Koca imtil Monduy. A Sabbath calm already prevailed upon the Bank. Althea ran down the stepa and took her place in the stem, while her conipanion followed and untiod the painter and shoved off. Such progreas in Fair Friendship rnny be made in two or tlu-ee days by a careful yoiwg man who taiea pains r such are tlie prfeen awarded to such young men as deaervo thcm : and so grcat waa the gratitude feit by this young lady towards the man who had oome all the way fcom Australia to gaze upon her father. The day waa bright : a freah brceza crisped and curled the water into little daneing wnves : it drove tlie light clouda acrosa the aky and eaused the flying shadows to chase each other over the broad surface of the river : it made Althea'a cheek to glow and her eyea to brighton. Eyes more beaiitiful ; cheek more glowing: Laurence thought he had never aeen. He addressvd hiiustli', at first, to getting out from the rowg of bargea into mid-atream and to showing the youug lady that an Australian, aa well ns a Thamea waierman, may know how to feather hie oars with ease and dciiemv. Now a gul's ad- FAIR FRIENDSHIP 71 miration of esse and deitsrity in any art is in direct proportioa to her own knowledge of that art ; eo that Althea, who under- Btood good rowing, waa quick to appreciate the neatness with whicb her companion handied the sculla. She was also, dnring the half-hour that followed, enabled to recognise Btrength of muftle imtl li'ii^ih of wind. Thia young man eould not oaly Mw bat he could last. They went 11p strenm with the slack end of the flowing tids as far as Chelsea lteach, which is a good long pull. Althea waa BÜent at first, bnt preaently bcgara to boguile theway by puintiug out the placeB, houses, churches, bridges, and palacos as they Eassed. She talked with more ao M Dga wben she perceivedtbat er companion listened with the greatest interest— indeed her short eiperionce of him had alreiuly distmguished hiin as a young man of svmpathetic mariner. She found him far more ready to listen than to talk. There is a kind of young man who, in presence of a girl, ia ternpted to put on side, to walk round and show his museles, to swagger and crow, and in other ways to Imitate the male turkoy. fiir purposes of mashing, There is another kind — a much more subtLe and dangeroua young man — who sita in humility, oontented to listen in eOence and to en- courage the girl. Laurence belonged to this kindof youngman. In the toidcUe of Chelsea Eeach he b toppeil, obedient to the Captain of the ship, and turned her bowa. Theu they both feil into silence gaaing upon the river. And presently Laurence remarked that the amile had died out upon Althea's lips; that her face was beeome grave : and that her eyes were dreamy. ßhe looked as ono earried away in a vision. Chelsen Eeach is never crowdcd with boats : at three o'clock even on a Saturdsy in June it is too early for the London Clubs, but there were on the water one or two senilen in the lighteraft which seem so easy to be pulled through the water that one wondars how it is they ean cause the rower to pant and puff, his face to fluah : his brow to stream, bis manly ehest to heave and hia arms to quiver just as much as if ho were tugging at the onr of the aecursed galley of Algiers or the biggest bärge of Bank Side. There were no penny steamboats visible ; as for canoes, randans, pleasure hoats, and steam launchea, one does not expe c t them lower down than Putney. There were two or three bärge» juat beginning to drop down stream, blundering and ataggering, with the tide: and there waB a noisy little tug, all engine and paddle -wheela, which hauled and lugged atong a team of un- willing lighters each with one man on board lahouring like ten tnen to keep her howa straight and her steni clear. Five minutes paased— ten minntes: but the girl remained eilent and motioidesa : her thoughts far away. What was aha thinking of? The still uesa of her face suited her beauty: a t h i nk i n g 71 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S feally sweet face seems to look best with a certain gravity upon it. She aat bs motionlese as if she had beon in a tranee. Laurence dippcd tho sculls and pulled a short stroke. The girl started and sat upright. ' I have been dreaniing, I am afraid,' she said. 1 1 think you have. Do yon often fall a-dreaming ? ' 'Yes — very often. When one is qulto alone, you know — at home when my father is in his study and niy uncle is out with hia patients : and on the river when I am by myself — it is so easy to fall into dreams.' 1 If I eould ask you to teil me your dreams,! might interpret them for you, perhaps.' 'They are not worth telling. Are you very tired? Shall I ohange places with you ? ' ? I am not in the least tired, thank yon, The river is splendid. I am truly grateful to you for letting me eome with you — what a blosscd chance that I have reinained at Bank Side 1 ' 1 My father was afraid that yon would think it such a poor place— and go away. Cassie said she would give you two days. We who always live there, you. boo, hardly unterstand howpoor the pbico must look to a stranger.' 'Well— Bank Side, it is trne, docs look best with a little gilding of sunset upon it. But there is the river. 1 Jjjes— there is the river— the river.' 8he leaned forward ae if to Bee better the streteh of water around her. ' The river ' — the words seerued to have a magnetic effect : her eyes again assumed the look of one whose thoughts are far away : her voiee feil into amunnur and she spoke as if she was talking to herseif without thinking of her companion. ' The river I It is always ohanging: sometimes it laugbs as if it thought of nolhing but happineua and enjoyment; and sometimes it roÜH along grey and heavy as if it were thinking of the poor people along tho ahores who are so miserable and so wicked : and sometimes it is as blue as the sky and sometimes it is the colour of mud. But every day the water rolls up and then rolls down agaiu — «very day — so fall — so füll of atrength. We stand upon tho bank and watch: ten thousand years ago the tideroQe&ap and down, and it will go on thonsands and thousands of years after we are ' When we are no longer Standing on the shore,' said Lanrence, ' the river may do just exaotly what it pleases. Let us be happy with the present.' Youth, I suppoae he meant, has nothing to do with the past • or with the future ; of tenses, the present alone bclongs to youth. Of moods, theind'cative and the imperative are meant for the use of youth. For age there are the optative and subjunctive wnong moods, and the past and future— I mean the I'ropht da FAIR FRIENDSHIP 73 Fnture — among tensaa. They bestow upon that chilly period of life either its chief consolalions or ita bittereat pangs. I am sorry that Viceainms Cottle ilid not say this. Ab ii grammariao be wotttd bare been pleased with the illustration. Unfortunately, it never oecurred to him. Altboa weilt ou as if be had not spoken. ' It is the tide which gives life to the river. If it wer« not for the tide thcre would be a atream alwaya flowing down. To stand on the bank and watcb. the ourrent alwaysiilwayanuining away withont any rest or pau.ee — to think that it goea on run- ning all the night as well as all the day : Coming one knows not whence and running one knowa not whither, must fill the soiil with a kmd of terror as if, like time, it was alwaya carrying Bomething away from us. But the ebb and the flow — it is ob if the river came to hülp us overy day.' 1 It does,' said Laurence. * The tide was firat turned od when bärge a were invented.' Althea looked up and laughed. She was ahaken out of her thoughta and called back to coinpanionship again. Her eye» lost their dreamy look, and she sat upright and caught tha strings aa if ehe ineant to attend to bueiness. 1 You mnat not nilnd rny idla talk,' she aaid. ' I eome npon tbe river so much and I am alone for auch long houra tbat I BometimeB talk out loud the thinge that are in my head.' ' No — no — go on talkmg. I will baten.' '"Well then — I am glad that you like tbe river and I am glad that your first irttroduction. to the river has been in sun- ' We have plonty of annehme in Sydney,' Baid Laurence, id we like it. They told me that London ia the city of Per- petual Fog, Yet behold 1 ' 1 We do have fogs,' Althea confeaaed. 'That cannot be dentcd. laut to-day I am sure no sky ouuld be brighter — not even the sky of Sydney." 1 That ia quite true,' he replied. 'And no air finer." ' Again, quite true.' ' And I own that the eun does make a vory great difference. Look at that big lighter blundering along in the mid-stream. You wonld ahnoat think that it waa a. live tbing, a hippopotamus or something — rejoieing in her clumsy play. And look at that noiay little tug, how abe pulla along tbe teamof bargea asif they weighed nothing, and it was a joy and pride for the little crea- turo to put forth her atrength. Well — on a cloiidy day tbe big lighter would All you with pity beeauae it wonld aeem ao blind md helpless. And the tug would make you think of a slava »rithing under the laah.' 74 THE BELL OF ST. PAUVS < Yee,' he said. There was dd need to aay innre than just to Bhow that he was liatening. ' SometimeB the clouds cloae over and the rain falls. Then one seea nothing : the banks ara hidden : the bargea and boats vanish : one is all alone on the water, and tho rain boats on the river aa if it were laahing and scourging it. Then one treinblea and thinka of terrible things. I have a dream which comes to me often, of being all alone on a waato of watera with nothing viaible and the r;iin beating down. Or oae may be caught in a fog. Tben the only thing is to keep cloae in ahore and 60 to creep home. But the fog ia not so terrible aa the dark clond and the pelting lashing rain. Once there feil a thunderstorm upon the river when I waa upon it. The lightning played over the waters, and a great ball of fire huret close to the boat. I thought that the boat and I togethcr might be Btruck and Bnd- denly deatroyed and no one woüld ever know «hat had becomfl of ine. And I wondered how many poople in this great world would ask the qnestion. Half a dozen in all. It is not many to know out of all the millions." ' Not many,' Lawrence eehoed with a littlo doubt in his mind aa to the hcnlthinoss of this snlitary communing on the river. Then shc ehanged and agahi camo hack, so to apeak, to life. ' You are a stranger,' she aajd, ' and I auppoae you do not widerstand what the river has alwaya been to London. For- merly it was the highway of tho people. They did not go up and down tho streets : they could not becatise they had no car- riagea and the roads woro rough and there were no footpaths : they took boat and so went Tip and down the river at their ease — it muat have been much more pleasant than an omnibna. I could Bhow you where they landed nt the old etaira all along tho North tank from Westminster to Wapping. Then they had eporta upon the river and Pageanta, and all the gentlefolk had their own boate just aa in Venice everybody haa bis gondola. The King had tho Bärge of State : tho Lord Mayor had hia Bärge of State : the City Companiea, the Biahopa, the great Lordß, all had their Bargea of State ; and went up and down tha river in them. In thoae days swans swam about the etairs : ealuion were caught nbove Bridge : poople used to go angling in the river : the bauk waa r = n.il wirk shittly houses aloping down to the river's edge-^-' She sighed heavily. 'The river m vi at have been beautiful in those days. I am eure there could not have been so inuch mud to begin with.' 'I believo the Company in the boata was sometimea a little miied,' Laiirenee objected, timidly. ' Well, then. Think, eveu now, what the river ia to the eity, thongh we no longer uae the boats. Think how it blows away the wasted air and bringe up the fresh breeze with every tide ' FAIR FRIENDSHIP ' Yes,' said Laurence. ' I will try to think aboiit it in this way.' ' And remember what beautiful tiüttga have been writtan about b river, But perhapa you do not read poetry.' ' I have read aonie poetry,' aaid Laurence. ' It ia not quita the same thing.' ' If yon had known the Thamea so long as I — Have you read " « ? He, you know— tO Mt Mi Clin liorc of (ilviT-=(reatiilüE ThunM I ?I have hoard those linea.' ' Then can yon teil nie who wrote— .n nympha and curicuB w Qt ro' No ? It waa Herrick. Ton ought to know Herrick. And Popa has written about tbe river — and — and — oh 1 many other poets.' Laurence made haste to chango the aubject. He miiilil hftVt been exainined in Mr. Indagine'aininiortal verae: in which case a diagraceful pluuk awaited bim. 1 You are not afraid of rowing about alone 1 ' 1 Not in the leaat. There is nothing to fear. You eau easily keep out of tho way of the bärge s aud the ateamera. Out on the are quite free. I coma here every dny — it ia nlwnys part of the day — if only for half an bour. At home tliere are mean streeta everywhere and inen who get drunk and beat their wivea: how ean one walk forpleasure in those streeta? On the river there ia nothing mean and ugly and vulgär, though I eoni'esa that sorue of tho buiklinga on the banks might be more picturesque. And thon ono ia quite alone, and if you row up above Westminster you are qiüet. You ean thiuk in peace. If ona ia in good apii-ils it is liii.i'pinasB enough only to row along singiug — and if you i'< o] !r.iiv the freah air and the eierciae quickly bring you back to a cbeerful inind.' 1 And always alone ? ' ' Alwaya in the day. Sometimea, in the evening, Caaaie or Felis will come with nie. But felis rows in a Club Four, and äespiees uiy poor little boat.' ' Then aomotimea, I suppoae, you !and and look about.' 1 Oh I no.' Althea ahook her bead. ' Th'ut would spoü all. I abould only find Bindern Rtieets. As it ia, the banka are crowded with the olil tluiiss tlmt I have read of in the bookä about London. Quantities of thiiigs bappea up and down the river. Whan I am rowing along I can amuso uividl with bnnging back tbe people md their houses and gardeus. I abould be äorry, indeed, to land 76 THE BELL OF ST. PAULS and find the old houses and the gardens gone and only mean streets in their places.' 1 You live in a dead and gone London,' said Laurenoe. 'Hat the living London no attraction for you ? ' ' 1 do not know it. But the dead and gone London lives still. Nothing ever really dies, I have read, ezcept the memory of wickedness. For instance, there is Battersea Park — befbre yoü — behind that Terrace.' * Oh ! Battersea Park ? St. James's Park I know and Hyde Park.» * This is Battersea Park. I dare say if we were to land there we should find a place like Southwark Park. Twentv or thirty years ago I believe it was only a dismal Stretch of Dare fields where people came to shoot pigeons and to make dogs fight and catch rats. That must have been a dreary time. But I forget that and remember a time much older, when Lord Bolingbroke lived here and had a great House with gardens down to the river bank. There was a Terrace there, and he used to walk up and down with his friends. Oh ! I often see them when I — fall a-dreaming, as you say — Pope and Steele and Addison and Swift and Arbuthnot— I see them all. They walk up and down slowly in little companies of twos and threes, carrying their hats under their arms and stepping daintily in shoes and white silk stockings. I wish I could hear what they say, but that I can never do : and it would be bad manners to pull nearer the bank in order to listen« would it not ? * ' Clearly. Addison himself in one of his papers reproaches young ladies in boats for listening to private conversation. If you see any of these good people this afternoon, teil me, will you ? But I believe I must be short-sighted in the matter of ghosts.' ' 1 will teil you,' the girl replied gravely. ' But they only come when I am alone. On the other side— over there — Sir Thomas More lives : he has got a beautiral house built of red brick with delightral casement Windows : it is covered with ivy out and trimmed close and clinging round the stone mulHons : he walks in his garden, which is füll of apple and mulberry trees and Standard roses, with his daughter Margaret. He has the kindest and wisest face in all the world. But I have not seen him lately. Lower down there was formerly a big Botanio Garden. I believe they have covered it with houses now, but I often meet the Physicians in their boats going to see the simples frowing under glass. Every day in summer they go there, and I elieve they drink wine together in a tavern after their visit. Nobodynow looks so wise as the last Century Physicians with their black velvet coats, their high peaked wigs and their gold-headed Walking canes. They are so füll of wisdom and dignity that they must have been able to eure evesy disease under the sun.' 'FAIR FRTENDSHIP •!?> 'Are there any on the river at tbia moment? ' 1 No — You have driven theia away, they can only be aeen by »olitwy persona. Chelsea ia veryrich in beautiful placea. There is lianelagh over there. It is a lovely place : there ia a great round room in it for music and dancing lit by thouaanda of oü lnmpa, and there are gardens where the people walk ftbout. the ladies in hoope and patchea and the men with swords and pnrpla coats. Sometiiuea I meet barge-s, not onr great hinibering Bank Side bargea— but beautiful pleasuro boatswith music in the bowa and the Company in the atcra, rowing up to Chelsea for a night ni Banelagh.' ' Alan I ' said Laurence, loolring Dp and down the river and tben acroBB it and shading bis eye* so tliat the enn should not liide tbeir vision. ' I see nothing, not even Lord Bolingbroke on the Terrace.' ' Would yon know him if yon did see bim ? ' 1 N — no— I think not. I miKht snspect, you know. Perhapa that is die reason why I see nothiog.' ' It ie plüasant to imagiue all theae things,' eaid Althea. look. ing at him gravely. ' They become qnite real if you imagine tliem often. We have got the old booka at bome — the essaya, and poems, and plays — and I have read them all, and it seema aometimes as if the lifo of the last Century was the only Ufa worth having, and ours was a rnere eiistence to read about the ' Why,' Eaid Lanronce, ' if that is all yon have of lifo — to read about the paat * ? But you — who know the world — don't yon think tbat the World of the last eentury must Luve been teil tiineH as pleasant 1 No, Mise Indagine. I believe, on the otber band, that we have got the very best of everythiog.' 1 But in tbe old daya there were aaaemblies and dancea and water- parti es and all kinds of things.' ? Well — but " Lanrence looked üp surpriaed, ' ian't there plenty of dancing and mnsio and Binging still ? There are the Theatrea — did they act better th«n than they do now? Did they danee better? Did they sing better? Were the ladies more beautiful or the men more polished? I doubt it very milch. I am quite satiBfied, Mis« Indagine, with the preeont.' ' Yea— perhapa,' Bhe eaid doubtfully. Tben she laughed a little. 'Oh I of course it is as you say, only it aeema I abould have seen sorneUiing of thia life if I bad üved a hundred j-eora •go. Nona of these thingaoome to Bank Side, and I have come to believe that they oiist no longer. The world nf Society ' se looked scross the river to the steeples and towers of the West -' it is over there eoujewhere — I should like to see it just for ; THE BELL QF ST. PÄUL'S n picture the life of the last Century, but not the life of the preaent.' ' But surely you da not stay always at Bank Side. Surely, you go, somotimes, Bomewhero, away from the — the place ' he looked ob if he was auppressing Bomething — an adjoctive perhaps. 1 No, I nevor leave Bank Siie.' ' You never leave — you never go away at all ? ' I No — and no one ever coitibb to ua. We are hermita — my father and Dr. Luttrel and I, we three together. Oliver uaed to come for hia vacations: but he never liked the place, and, to be eure, tbe streeta all round üb are very unean. Since he c&me back from Gennony he only comes occasionally.' ' Ia hia inincl wholly given Tip to scienee ? ' aeked Laurence. Then he remeinbered the comedietta of the Bridge and wished he had not aaked the questioo. Althea ehonged culüur. The:.- ehe mnde uns wer in a con- strained voice. ' I cannot say how Oliver disposea of his mind. He gives bis father very little of bis aociety. I mean only that we live a very retired life and are wholly ignorant of eociety. When you are tired of ua,'— ahe said thia with a porfect abaence of eoquetry,— ' you will go away and forget us and we shall go on again in the old quiet way. Until you do got tired of üb, come and talk with my father as often as you can. He likes you — and it ia long since be talked with any one of theoutside world. For lliirty years he has livod apart from hia fellows.' ' Tired of you? 'cried Lawrence — but checke d himself. Could one balieve that thore was a hermit — a girl hermit — living uniler the shadow of St. Paul's? Bat to think— no soeiety at all! ' Teil me,' a sudden thought seizing bim, ' teil me is it posaible that you have never been to a danee ? ' ' It is quite possible. I do not in the least know how people danco ; only I am eure that the minuet haa quite gone out.' ? Nor to a Theatre ? Nor to a party of any kind ? ' I I have been nowhere. We have no frienda — no one visitB ob — and the only girla I know are Caasie and Flavia.' I Good Heavens I What do you do every day and all day 1 ' I I read and work — I go out in my boat — I play a little — I work a little. That is all. It ia not so dull as you. would think, but sometimeB I wonder what it ia like in the world.' 1 Then in the Summer. You don't stay at Bank Side in the i.. im do. "We have very little money, you know. My father has the house inwhichwelive and three or four more. It have got to live upon, and my Uncie'a practice ia all naong the poor people. If we were only rieh ' ' Why,' Laurence longed to teil her, ' you are rieh : you are FAIR FRIENDSHIP very rieb indeed. You have got an immense estnte wailing fof yon.' But he refrained. The time was not yet coate. ' Yoq live in London and yet you do not know London.' ' Oh, yea, I do. I know the City of London very weit and I know the Borough ; as for the City, I am eure there cannot be, anywhere, a moro delightful place. We have got booka about the City — CunningharnandTmibP andothers— and I read all that haa happened in the Btreeta and then walk about theiu and remember it all. Saturday afternoon is a f-ood time because the Churchea are generally open and the atreetB are quiet. But Sunday morn. ing is best becauso the atreeta are quite empty and deserted. Ohl Ton must not think that I do not know London.' ' Miss Indagine,'aaidLauronce öfter a little pause, 'Ipropoae a exchange.' ' What is it 1 ' ' One to my own advantage entirely. Showme theaecurioue places in the City and the Borough, and I will ahow you the Weat End. I have walkod once down Regent .Street and Bond Street and Piccadilly and I aeem to kn-ow the West Endright throngh. I have also looked in at the Academy. What do you aay ? ' Althea heaitated with caution newly born. It ia hy instinet that we auspect a snake in the grass. Tet flbe knew nothing about the deaigns of the Male Heart Broaker, of the Designer, of the Man with do Intentions, of the mere Amuaer, or of the Catholio Admirer. Man the Tippler ahe knew, becauae aha fre- quently met him in the streeta, but Man the Designer ehe knew not. Tet ahe instinctively hesitated. But the eyes which met taers were so frank and honeat that ehe yielded. ' You will show me the World of Society and Pleaeure ? ' 'I cannot take you into the »dual housea or to their dancea and partiea. But I can show you the outside of things, if you ' Tes, I ahould like to see the outside of things. I aooept the exchange.' 'Very good, and now we are off Bank Side. Poor old Bank Side I It really doea want a little gilding of tha pimset. And it ia Saturday afternoon. Lat us hegin at once. Tou ahall take me to the City of Ghosts and Shadows ; you shall ahow me the old merchants in their wigs and lace rutttes, and I will ahow you the young gentlemenin their tight collara and their pointed boots. I am very glad, Miss Indsgine,' aa Bhe sprang out of the boat and ran up the atairs. 'I am very glad that I stayed at Bank Side. Why, I might hava been wasting my time at the Grand Hotel, waudering about Piccadilly looking at the fine ladiea, or even eittiug in the Btalla of the Tbeatres, looking at the play.' THE BELL OF ST. PAULS CHAPTEB HL I Citi Ritt win Hm beginneth the fiist of msny lesaoas. Here foUowetb Um first of many rambles. To h'"t who walke abroad in London witfa bis eyes open there are no itreeU — not evea those of Florence and Roma — faller of Instruction and delight. Bat while even the mos! Ignorant tourist geta all that hia nnhiatorical eonl can absorb — which is not mach — out of the Florentine streets by diligent etudy of his Homer, few indeed of those who daily go up and down the London Btreet» regard their antiquily or heed their history of a thoosand yeara. Yet in those streetB has been enacted a long drama in many acta and countkss tableaux, with ineidents and situations of aiirpassing intereat, by a people In- coraparably mors worthy than the Italians. If yon see, as you ruay occasionally, a little party wandering about, curiously poking aiid prying into odd comera, anned with Baedeker or Hare, wanting to get into cloaed Churches and aaking where are ancient monumeuta which have been swc-pt away by greed and avarice — they are anre to be Amerieans. They cannot walk so well aa the English, and pilgriniising is thereforo a wearinesa to the flesh. Yet they continue to go on pilgritnage. Of Engliah pilgrima to the saered ahrineB and holy sites of London Town Perhaps, if there were guides, there would be pilgrima. A Cicerone who can apeak ia far, für more usefnl than one who is only read. First of all, he knowa hia way and doea not have to ask it eonatantly, and doea not causa one to weep in wrong placos, which is humiliating. If, for inetance, there were gnidea tike unto Althon,, there certainly wonld flock nnto the City a nuble army of pilgrims, youn;», enthueiastic, afchirst for koow- ledge. But there are nono like unto her. And, which ia the more to be deplorod, ahe hersetf has now retired from the pro- fväxinn in which sho was once so distinguiehed an amateur. Cir« oinuataneoa over which she haa had positively no control have romoved her from the Borough of Southwark. There is a vnoancy. In these days of feminine eompotition, certain people have disooyered that the calling of Cicerone might be fonnd lucrative to those ladies who would take the trouble of acquiring Cily hiatory and archeeology. None but the resolute should allempt thio branch of knowledge, which demnnds, to begin with, a vast amouat of reading and a tenaciouB memory in Order T AND PLAYER LAND Bi hom y equipment. Hone, again. tut theaturdy icd the atrong-backed ahoiild attempt to prattise this profesaion. That youag lad; wbo cannot do her ten rniles of street tramp without fatigue; who camiot bear the jolting of a cab all day long without getting a pain in the back; who has to lie down with a heaiiaeha after locturing tu the streets for half a day, — had better think of soine more sedentary occupation. City Cicerone i Parties personally conducted : Lactures given on the kerb : the oral biatory of the London streets : the wondrous tals of Chureh and College, of street and Square, of court and alley, Of river sido and ancient wall, of mcrehant princea and atately oompaniee — a splendid viata opens before one. I see the guide, young, atrong, and — yea, surely — beautifnl, bright-eyed, entliu- eiaatio, followed by lier party of ignorant — humbly ignorant — West Enders or Ainericans, Hidlying forth to extend their know- ledge and her own income : to inculcnte in them respeot for antiquity and to pocket for herseif substantial fees : to make dumb atonea apeak to them and to enable herseif to keep her brothera at home in the idlenesa due to their position as gentle- ' Well,' said Althea, the only, the original pioneer of this profession of the future, 'we will begin with this aide of the river if yon will put youraelf in my handa. I wonder if yon know the meinoriea of the ground. This — for instand), ie Poet and Player Land.' ' My mind is as a tahlet of virgin was,' Said Laurence. ' I only know that all this oity ia füll of history. Deal with me as you think fit.' Althea consideredamomant gravely, SB if impressed with tho reaponaibility of her task, and then ied the way to the weat end of Bank Side, where, beside the wharf with ita mountain of petroleum caaka, it melta and mcrgea into Willow Street, where now no willows be this msny and many a year. ' Now,' she said, holding up a flnger monitory. ' Ton see, I *uppose,a narrow street with war ehouses and wharves — nothing eise. ' Nothing eise, eicept two lamp-posts." 'Veryweü. ItiBnonse — no use at all— going any farther nnleaa yon are able to ahnt your eyes to everything that atands npon this ground. Ton must make believe, Mr. Walier. Oh I if one could not make believe every day, it would be difficult indcad to live here.' 1 1 will make believe, then, most obediently. Only teil me what I am to see.' Nothing very dimcnlt. But ßrat of all these Btreeta and honaes must vanish.' That ia indeed oasy. See 1 Presto I ' He waved bis hand. El THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S ' It is done. They are gone. There are no mors atreeta and hotises. But for the njonieut there ia nothing eis». The human eye, Miss Indagine, abhors v&cuity. What should I see ? ' ' lnstead of nioan streets there are beautüul gardens, leafy treea, grassy lanea, flowery hedgea, and ponds.' ' Certainly. Stupid of nie uot to see thein before. Theyare bete — gnrdona füll of flowers and the moat urabrageous trets in the world.' It waa clear from the rapt look in Althea'a eyea that to her the gardena and hedgea were roally tkc-re. But it must ba eonfesscd that her conipanion departed from the trutb. ' We have gone back nearly three hundred yeara," said Althea, ' wo are in the yoar 1U00 and in Queen Elizabeth 's reigu. Tbat, of courae, you cau see for yourself, by the way that the people are dressed.' ' Of courae one recognises the costunie.' Laureuee looked shout him critioally. ' It ia piotureeqae. I tbink I have never aeen it betöre off the stago.' ' We are gbosta : we wander nneeeo among them : we can talk and they will cot hear »s : we can watch them but they will not notioe us. Oh ! we aliall have the most dehghtful walk. I havo ofton and oflon beeu among them before, but alwaya «Jone. It is 6tupid not to have anyone to talk with oa such a walk, is it not ? " 1 Do you never talk with the people ? " 'No,' ehe replied, aa gravely aa a child pretending; 'I am invisible, you know. Let us begin. See, now, tbia is Love Laurence looked down a dark passage with high bnildings on either aide, so narrow that there waa hardly room for two men, to pana each other. ' There is alwaya a Love Laue or a Lovers' Walk in every Silaoe where there are open fields near a town. You are vary uoky to visit the place in June. See how bright the hedge ie with the wild rosea : and look at the flowera above the ditch. It is pleaaant to walk aloug this laue in nearly all weatbera, exoept the depth of winter : but especiaüy, nuw, in the early sHmmer t and at evening, when the people on tbe Dank are beginning to ba noiayover their cupa and tbeir aongs. Listen ! you can hear them tiiikling their guitars. Some of them play and sing very ?weetly— thoir aongs are all about love and Venus— but you know they are mostly players and poets, and they diink and sing and quarrel every evening, Ouly a little while ago— five or eii years now— they killed poor Christopher Marlow in a tavern brawl — you remember Christopher Marlow ? ' ' Perfectly. Perfectly.' 'I have often Seen bim oa the Bank. He was a handsome POET AND PLAYER LAND »3 man not yet thirty, but he irunk too niuch wine and he showed ai timea a wild and disordered countenance. I used to meet bim when I was a littlo ghl, and before tbat fatal quarre), in theaa very lanes. He would walk along toasing hia anns and spouting his splendid veraea, thinMng tbat he waa all alone, becauae of oourse he could not teil that a girl of the nineteenth Century was watching, could he ? ' 'Naturally he could not. 1 'Then they killed him. I waa very sorry. They onght to have buried him in St. Eaviour'H where bo many of hia old frionds were to he, but instead of that, they took him all the way to St. Nicholaa', Deptford — I havo always thought it such a pity that our own Church could not have the keeping of bis remaina.' ' So have I,' said Leurenee. ? BeMnd na ore the Falaon staira and the Falcon Inn, Very good Company used to land at thoae atairs and take a cnp at the Inn on their way to Paria Gardens — great Lords and foreign arnbasandora in their atate barges. Thoae are the Paria Gardens over the hedge — Love Lane runa along the West aide of the gardena. Formerly thera were many rastic walks among the trees, but eines they have kept the beara here and aince the Lord Mayor haa aent hia hounds to the place and the London butchera have brought their offal here, the gardena are no longer pleasarit for the Citizens. The walks are overgrown and the flower beds and lawna are neglected. And ttiat ia why the trees are growu bo thick that you can see nothing through the bracches. Wa will not go into the gardens to-day, I Lhink. What with the baiting of the beara and the bulls and the horeea, there ia geue- rally auch a rabble aa would disgnst you.' ' No,' Said Laurence. ' Beara and bulls are rough Company for ladiee. I will go alone eome other time. Let ua go on, They went to the end of Wülow Laue and turned into Holland Btreet. 'If we were not in Queen Elksbeth's time,' aaid Älthea regretfully, when they eame opposite to the Court of Hopton'a AÜnshouses, ' I could show you a tnost interesting almahouae here. But of courae it ian't yet built, In the time of Queen Elizabeth there were not many almahouaes. I could also show you Zoar Street where John Bunyan praaohed — but he haa yet to be bom. At preaent, you aee, all is garden and wood. You are woodering, perbaps, to see so many ponds about. It ia a great Elace Ihr ponds and atreama. The reason ia that this part lies iw : if it were not for the Bank it would be under water every high tide. I suppoae tlmt is also Üie reason why there ia so mach fever and ague about the place always. But here — here' — she turned into ono of tlie meoueat, dirtiest, uglieat streets possible tu ,' THE BELL OF ST. PAÜCb eanoetre — ' here we üb st las* really oo the moet classic gronnd in ihe whote of London. Thim, Hr. Wkiler, U,I »«rare von, nou« othet thaa Haiden Lan* 1 ' Lanrenee obaerred from the legend oo the comer hoofe tha* thevhadchangtd the uar.iiuiu hui goidekxAedsotrinrnphant he tried to look uifbi ndentood all the gloriea of Maiden Line. ? The modern honsea have quin, qnite ranished, have they not ? ' aaked Aithea, watchin«; hei companion's face with «ome uwiety. In fact, hie eye» were palpably, obTioualy, considering the present appearance and the inhabitante of the street — which is nuw re-chratened by Order of some barbarian, and calkd Park Street. It is narrow and sqnalid : the hooses are mean and dirty : the shops are those wh ich belong to a very poor quarter : and there is continually, day and night, floating on the air, a thick, invisible elend of smell. I know not how high it risea overhead, bat U tbe elevatum of five feet seven. where Laurenee firat strack it, the smell was as streng aa Aleides, and as penetratmg aa ihe dart of Cupid- Laurenee gasped, eboked, and mshed through this bank ot fragrance before he replied. ' Yea — yes — they have all qnite vaniahed, I assure you. At that inoment — «hen you spote — there were, it is troe. a few gbosts — mere ahadows — ofhou=es: and there aeemed— perhaps my fancy — to be the feint ghost of a imell— very odd thing : I never met, betöre, with the ghost of a smell — fried fish it was — fish fried in oil — fish not qnite fresh dipped in oil rather tumed and tben imperfectly fried— a very odd ghost.' Aithea listened ivith some impatience. Sncb gbosts troubled her not : she was used to them. > All gone now, Miss Indagine— even the ghost of the rag and bone ehop, with the old woman, all rags and bonos herseif, in front. Notking now bot gardens and hedgea and wild flowera and the — the — oh! Lord! that fried fish! — the sweetest fragranoe from the wild rose« and the honeysaokle. It is a balmy air. Only to breathe it is suffieient.' 'We are in Poet and Player Land,' seid Aithea, apparently eatisfied. ' Some of the Poets and the Players lived on the Bank : tcey all came here to the Bank to Bing and drinkwine andsmoka tobaeco. Bin in these leafy laues they walked togetber and held »eriouH converse : they were not always drinking, yon know. Here you may meet Shakespeare and Ben Jonson together. Beaumont comes here very often : he is a very fine genüeman wbo dressea like a eoartier : and here walked Masäinger and Ford : and I have aeea Edmund Spenser here, but he is now dead. In the summer, when the theatres are open and the Bear Garden, the lanes are Glied with peoplo who have come across the — — rtoseetheplayandthebaiting: hntindeed von canhear them.* It ii indeed a bcautifui place to walk in,' said Laurenee, doubtfully, fish shop ii POET AND PLAYER LAND 8$ ooubtfuUy, bccauae he thought he saw another ghost of a fried- fish shop iv few doora ahead. • Of course,' said Althoa, ' this is the best time of the yaar for the laues. In winter it is impossible to walk höre for the mud. Beaidea, there is then alniost always a white miat hanging over the place, and it is aaid to cause ague. This little cut aoroaa the fields is ealled Bandy Leg path. I know not why. This '— they were now at the end of the atreet where she hereelf lived — ' is a way throngh the gardens to the riverside, Some day, perhaps,' — it was indoed a remarkable prophecy — ' this path and all the lanes may be covered with mcaii Li.iildings. Don't forget, pray, Mr. Waller ' — for Laurence again showed a dispoaition to oon- sider the bouses — ' that we are in the year 1600. You are only a Ghost of the Future." ' Yea, yea, I romember — only a Ghost of the Future. It is a great power to be able to wander in the Past— mere Ghosta of the Future. How I pity ßtDM OBSxtaoidM who have to remain among the Present in the Fleah 1 ' At that moment the Doetor emerged from the house and walked hastily up the strest. Bat Althea seemed not to see bim . ' Do you hear the druma and the trumpets ? ' ehe aeked. * What a noiae I Why cannot they carry on their ahow without such a clamour 7 They are going to bait the bear in the new house — not in Paris Gardens. Look, there are Burleif;h and Alleyne the players : and Henslowe with a great Lord. Look at his silk cloak embroidered with pearla. Let us follow.' She turned out of Maiden Lane into a narrow little atreet leading to the Bank. Halfway down the street widened into a tinysquare with a tavern in one corner. 'This is the entrance to the new Bear Garden,' she said. ' It is the Hope Theatre aa well. The Tavern is füll of people drinking. Well, they will destroy and build over the Bear Garden, but the Tavern will remain. Ton don't wart to see the baiting, do you ? ' 1 No, unless you wish it.' ' Gertainly not. It is a terribly noisy scene. and the men nso horrid oaths. Beaidea, I have another surprise for you. Youhave heard of the Böse Theatre, of course 7 ' ' Oh, yes ! The Rose, of courae.' ' There it is.' She pointed down another alley narrow and dark. parallel with the street of the Bear Garden. ' Oh I This is the Böse Theatre, is it ? ' Laurence gazed with intereat atthe wall of a warehouse. ' Inever — doyou know? — expected to look upon the Rose Theatre.' ' A little farther down I can ah-ow yon aometbing even more interesting.' Just here the atreet passed ander the archea of Southwark Bridge, but the Vision of the leafy laue remainedinAlthea's eye». i "HE BELL OF ST. A Utile beyond the Bridge beginfl the waü of the great Brewery. Althea alopped before this walL ' There,' ehe said, ' ia the Globe Theatre. It was only opened a year or two ago. Half a dazen of Shakespeares plays hava been already brougbt out here. It ia the best and largest of all the Theatres. The old Swan in Paris Gardens is pulled down, I balieve ; but, aa I told you, one canuot walk in those gardens any more, and I have not yet aeen eitlier the Curtain et Shoreditch, or the Theatre in the rnins of Blackfriars, or the Fortune at Cripple- gate. The play they have actedto.dayia the" Midsumnier Night 8 Dreain." It ia a pity that we are too late for the Performance." ' It is a finely-proportioned house,' said Laurence, with the docihty of the One-eyed Calendar. ' Tea. Pity to th'ink,' said Althea, ' that thie Theatre, which ouglit to be kept aaerod to all time, will be presently deserted and the place left to itself for two hundred yeara. Then they will huild Barclay and Perkins' Brewery npon it.' ' Barclay and Perkina ! ' cried Laurence, with more animntion than ho had shown for the Bear Garden or the Böse. 'Is tbis Barclay and Perkina' ? ' ' Oh ! Mr. Waller t I thought the housea had all vanished." 'But yon bronght them back.youknow, by lalkingof Barclay and Perkins.' ' Well, let na leave off pretending. Have I made yon under- etand a little where the old theatrea etood ? ' ' I am ashamed of myself, Miss Indagine, for making believe so badly. But I do widerstand soiuetkiiig, thank yon.' ' Then for the reat of our walk we will be moderna again. Thia street' — it was that into which Maiden Laue ende d — 'ttsed to be called Deadman'a Place. There ought, properly, to be a legend about it — a murder and a ghoat — and people ahould be afruid to walk alone in it at night : but now they have quitc for- gott-en the story, even if ever there was one. Thia corner houae is the place where the old Climk Prison atood — the Prison of the Liberty of the Clink — many a poor player haa been laid by the heels in this prison for brawling. It still looks gloomy, thoughit is onlya werehonse now ; and thianarrowatreot— Chnk Street — was once a lane running aloag the north of Winchester House, the Bishop 's Palace.' At the end of the street they oame npon the river and npon the qneereat little dock that wag ever seen, with just room enough for a bärge to float in it. 'Thia is St. Mary Overies' Dook,' said Althea. 'It was made long ago for the brethren of the Priory. Perhaps, even, for the a of the old House founded by the Lady Mary long, long _ . sven before London Bridge was built. They had a chapcl here and looked aßer the Ferry, Very likely thia Dock was oni POET AND PLAYER LAND 87 Wid of the Ferry. Tbe Siatera were followed by b College of Priests, who built a timber bridge. And then cametwo Norman knighta, named Pont de 1' Arche and Dauncey, who founded the Priory. The monks kept their bärge of atate laid up in tbia Dock, and the barges for the carrtage of their wine and provisions put in here. The monaatery stood here, at the back of the great church where are nuw nothing but warehouses. Bat only a fe w yeara ago there were still ruina left.' By this time the Shakespearian vision had quite doparted, and Älthea was back again in the present day. Sbe led her companion by onother lano to the open Space before the church. By a happy accident the doors were open and they wentwithin. It ifl wonderful to tbink of this great and splendid church lying buried and almost forgotten at the foot of London Bridge. They pulled down quite needlessly tbe stout old walle of the ruined nave, and they built up a Thing of uglineBa and niean- ness in its place : they deatroyed the Bishop 's Chapel andwould have deatroyed tho Lady Chapol aa well, but they were prevented by the courage of one man. There nie a hundred thonaand who däily croaa the Bridge and look down upon tbe church : from all the trains between Charing Crosa and Cannon Street the paasengera can look upon the Tower: yet, the whole day long, this splendid Chancel isquiet,untroddon by the feet of Btrangers, ?ave by a few Americans who come over the river to See the placewhere the poets and players lieburied and where the martyrs were brought to hear their Gentexice, which was alwaya that of death through the Gate of Fire. Why, even in the church itaelf, a glaaa screen divides the new nave from the Transept, and tbe BCantyoongregationknownothin^of the glorieaof their old church. Althea knew its history and all its monumenta, and showed them, reading the inscriptions through üke a conacientioua Cicerone : the tomb of John Gower : the figuro of the Tumplar, doubtless Pont de 1' Arche himself: the figure of Lancelot Andrewes — fatherof all those who would read Maas for Morning Prayer : the namca of t'lotcher, MasBiuger, and Edmund Shake- speare carved in the stones of the chancel : tbe atalwart form of King Jamea'a Gentleman Porter : the recumbent Doctor, inventor of the Pill which eure d mfHltfllMMnn and prevented all the reat — he is repreaented — nay, pfaotographed— in the great auffering caused by taking ooe of hls own Pills an hour or two bofore bis demise ; and the monument of Mr. Bichard Humble, with the pretty linea,— Orlike ttodatntyHowersotliBj, I cut and so la dum. •not: Tippe 18 THE BELL OF ST. PAÜL'S ' Are 7011 llrcd 1 * Althea aaked when they came out. ' E»v» you seen enough t ' ' How can one ever be tired, with such & gnide ? Ton bave taught me more in an hour than I conldhavelearoedinamomh from the book«. And all this ' be looked at Althea as he ?poke, bnt perhaps he had the old ütes in his iniod — ' all tbis — on Bank aide.' ' M; father aas got a, collection of the old dramatistB,' »aid Althea. ' By reading them and nie books about London, of which heims a great many.it ia easy to maie out all theseasaociations. If you like, I will take you, another day, into the City, whc-ra there are still a great many things to see, thongh none more interesting thanthese.' ' Let na go. Let os be ghoata again. I like being a ghoBt — in Company. To be a ghost by oneBelf must be lonasome. Let ns go Bomewhere eise to-morrow.' 1 For to-day,' said Althea, ' you sball not be a ghost any more. Another day— perhaps. Oh I there is a great deal more to see on this aide of the river. There are the old Inns, bnt they can wait : there is Guy's Hospital : there is St. Olave'a : there are Bermondsey, and Rotherlnthe, and Deptford, and Greenwich — oh ! qnantities of placcs füll of wonderful things — to those who can ahnt their eyea. But to-day I am going to ahow you only one more thing — very different from Poet and Player Land, if you will come with me.' ' 1 will go with you cheerfully, Miss Indagine, even to the Bonth Pole.* 8he took bim np the staira to the main atreet and tarned southwards, and her face, which was as changeable as a neld of golden com in a day of cloud and wind, besame atrangely Bad and grave. ' When I first read" Little Dornt," ' shewent on.breakingout in an unexpected place — from Shakespeare to ' Little Dorrit ' is a considerable jomp — ' I underBtood the book far better tban most people coüld. I am going to teil yoa why. Let me show von, firät, all that is left of the place where Mr. Dorrit lived so long. When I read that book it was not of the girl I thongh t — the girl who wae bom in the Marshalsea and went in and ont every day— it was of a boy who came to see his father and to waten tbe prisoners — a boy with bright eyea. See, thia is the Marshalsea — all that is left of it.' She led the way down a filthy and narrow passags to a paved court. A row of houseB Btood back to back : there were iron railings guarding a gatewsy and a gatehouse : the iron railings etood open and the gate was gone. Within, was another broad paved court with a high wall on one aide. The Upper Windows looked out npon a chuxchyard with trees in it. POET AND PLAYER LAND £9 'This is the place,' aaid Althcn. Laurence observed that for ?he actua] place, Ehe slatteru women, the dirty children, the houees with theii open doora, the biis of tlimcs drying after the wash— ahe had no eyea, She knew how to shut them. ' Here Mr. Dornt lived. Hia room, I am certain. was up there, the second house from the ond, where the windows command the best view of the treee in the churchyard. Two yeara ago I could have ahown you ths rest of the Priaon : there was the old White Lyon, the ancient county Priaon, what they used to call the Surrey Cliiik, Etill Standing with its little exerciae yard and its two great rooma— a real priaon. Hut it is now all pnlled down and built over. Dun't you haar the chatter of the idle E'iaoners ? Can't you aeo the boy— hia name was Charles ickens — looking and liatening und forgetting nothing ? Goma away. Itis dreadful to be höre.' They left the place of gloomy memoriea and wslked a little way farther down the Street. Preseutly Althea atopped and pointed to certain blocka of coiupaiatively new houses aoross the road. ' Tliose new honaea and streeta, 1 she aaid, ' Cover the aite of the old Queen's Benoh Priaon. It haa not been pulled down very long. Oh ! I am glad it is gnne. I am glad to think there is nothing left of it to preaecve ita meniory. I hope it will be clean forgotten.' She apoke with more vehemence than waa appropriate to a mete obetract dislike of a Priaon. ' It ia a hatentl, dreadful place. Now I will teil you why I underatood "Little Dornt" so welL Itis because mv father panaed hia boy- hood in thia Prison. All that I read in that book, and inore, I hava heard from my father abaut thia vile and wieked place. His father, my grandfather, died in that priaon. There were three of them — my grandfather and his two boya ; one of them, the younger, jEneaa — a very little boy. Jtfy grandmother was dead. They wore horribly poor, and their long poverty and the ahame of Ihe priaon — it ia a (hreadful thing for a boy to have to oonfeaa that hia father died in priaon — and the aights and ?ounds of the place Bank so deep into my father's heart that he haa never forgotten them — or the man who cauaed all this suffer mg.' ' I knew some thing of thia,' seid Lanrenoe. ' How did yon know 1 Did Caaaie teil you ? Never mind. Ton think, Mr. Wallor, that my father ia absurdly sensitive ; yon wonder that a man shonld leave hia frienda and give up hia Work and retire to auch a acclusion aa Bank Side, all beeauae he reeeived a harah and unjust criticism. But remembor the poverty and the degradation of hia boyhood pasaed in this priaon. How he got educated at all I know not, becanse I cannot bear that his tiiuugbis ashould ever be turned to that THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S miserable time. Thia it was wliich mada him morbidly sensi- tive. Ee always remained ufraid of the world. Some nieu da not Beem to care a bit for the world : it never terrifies them. To 111 y father the world seemed alwaya ho terribly atrong : this came, perhapB, from living among inen whotn the world had cruahed. I brought yon her», Mr. Waller,' sbe added, looking np to him with her frank, clenr eyeB, ' becauao I wanted yon tc know oxaotly what happened to my father : I thought yon wonld then make allowance for — for what yon tkink ia too sensitive in his eharacter. I wanted this the more because my fallier likea yon ao much and because yon. may perhaps lead him a little out of his retirement. Yon know that yon are the only man wbo haa ever read and loved his poems.' Laurence blushed, but made no reply. They began to retrace their steps in silence. But Altht» Btopped before a great modern church in tha High Street. Of the thouaanda who pass this church evcry day I wonder how many pay it any heed or know aught concerning it. Even St. ßaviour's is batter known. ' I muBt fihow yon,' she seid. ' the strängest churehyard in London. Thia ia St. George 's— the oldeat Church in tha Borough of Sonthwark. It ia older than St. Saviour's, thongh the buüding ia quite modern. This was a place of sanetuary, formerly. Southwark Fair used to be held hero. But it ia the churehyard that I want you to see. Let ue go in. Thia is the burial-place of all the poor prisoners who died, during hundredfi of years, in the Marehalsea and the Queen's Benäh and the old White Lyon. Bishop Bonner is buried here : höre are lords (lud great men as well as the humble and unknown who have diod in the priaonfl and were brought here when — when the Lord granted their diseharge. The poor prisoners 1 Tha place, before they left öS burying here, was erammed with dead men'a bonea. The poople in tha Marshalaea— that ia Mr. Dorrit's window above the wall — must have heard the kneü ringing and watched the funerals going oo every day, I don't think Little Dorrit notieed them very much. Oh ! lf one could only write a history of St. George'a Churehyard — but the very namea of the prisoners are long since forgut ten — and their unjust sufferinga and the punisbxnent for their uina — all gone out of men 's minda. Among the Company of the dead prisonars, Mr. Waller, liea my grandfather.' The churehyard of 6t. Q-eorge'a, liko moat of the London ehnrehyards, haa been turaed into a publio garden. They have clcared away the headstonea and rem >ved them to aerve as a kind of lining to the wall«, wbere they are neatly arranged in a row, ao that no deadman shall be abla to grnmble or to complain that he has been furgotten before the lettera of his name flava. POET AND PLAYER LAND 91 b to wear themselvea ont. Nay, so great hag lieen thia eoal to prolong the meuiory of the oldest inhabitant of the yard, that even the headstones where nothing at all, neither name nor date, can be an; more made oat, have also been preserved with tlio rast. But as for the eiact spot where anyone hea buried, that ia clean forgotten and can never more be learned. Two or three of the more niagnificeat tombs have been loft in situ. The ground, which ig in ehap& what Euclid calla a gnoroon, ia laid out in ßower-beda and shnibberies: there are wooden benchcs for the eonvenicneo of Binnl old people who come here when the aun sliines, to repose and ineditate : tbe children drive their hoops — in hoop time — which is late autumn — about the Thia afternoon many old people were on tbe scats : eome of theni in the tasty uniform of the Union : the garden was in ita fairest auinmer beatity : the leaves showed still their firat bright green : the flower-beda were gay with annuals ; soine of the shrubs were in flower. ' It looka a pretty garden now,' aaid Althea, ' But its beanty laats a very littlo while. The leaves fall off in September, and are swept up and carried away. Just now it looks too bright and happy for the burial-place of tbe poor priaoners. But conie here in November when the leaves are all gone, and yoti will aee nothing but black earth, liluck bougha, black tmnks, and headstoncB which can no longer be read ; and then yon will reoiember who he buried here. The Dorrita had no flower garden to look into : only a crowded chmehyard covered with neglected graves and — I always think so — broken bottles. At this spot, at ray feet, waa buried my grandfather, Sylvester Indagine. And ovcr there, agninst the wall, ia his headstone. I keep it clean and scrape the black moas out of the letters. I really do think that his is the only stone which is still cared for." Laurence stepped across and read, * In Memory of Sylvester Indagine, who diod April 5th, 1842, in the Queen's Benoh Priaon. May the nest World be kinder to hini than thia I ' 1 My father comas here sometimes, but not often, becauae the sight of tbe stone recalls the old time and revives the old bitterneBS. Tou spoke tho other day, Mr. Waller, of Mr. Norbery. Never meution that name to my father again. It was Mr. Norbery who caused the ruin of my grandfather. First, he made him seil his property to himself, just beforo the new raüway increased its value enormously : t)ien he robbed him, aomehow, of the purehase money : then, bocatiso there was still aome cbaoee of getting more money out of him, this greedy money-grubber threw him into prison and kept him there — nntil he died. The prisoner died cursing the name of Norbery. THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S Itut he lived on and prospered for forty years and lonser after- wards. If oll the curses laid upcm the head of Mr. Norberv had taken effect, I know not what wonid have happened tö 1 Now, Mr. Waller, I will show yon no more to-day. Ton ei from Australia to see London, did yon cot ? Well — this if a pieee of London which I think that Auatralians very Beidom do lee, Let 115 go hooie.' CHAPTEB IT. THE RESULT OF Bt five o'clock in the aftemoon moat of the stndents i Fhyeical Laboratory had put away their work and gone home. One cannot, I believe, successfully condnct a Research for more than eil hoora a day. Two or three were left, Standing each at hia own table, his own jet of gas, hi» tubes, his blow-pipea, and his scales beeide him. The DemonBtrator, who had all day long been assisting and advising the others, now etood idle, hia hands in his pockc-ts, cither tired or a-thinking. The place was quiet — a physical laboratory can never be noisy — aithongh, oatside, the city was etill at high tide of work and activily. Greahain College, as everybody knowa, ia the old College recently converted to ways of modern uaefulnesa : and the Demonstrator to the Professor of Physics was none other than Mr. Oliver Lnttial, B.A. London, Ph.D. Heidelberg, and F.E.S. Tea althoogh he was aa yet no m«re than six or seven and twenty, for original work that he had doue, important papers that he had written, and wonderful discoveri-ee that he had made, this fortu- nate young man had alroady been received into that Royal Fellowahip and was entitled to iise after his name those three letters — the posseasion of whieh ia the ambition of every worker in the field of science who respeets himself. In the langnage of the Graft, he had already ' done something' — stränge that thc-se words in other circles should bear a meaning so widely different ! — and he was expected to do a great deal more. Kow a yonng man who ia already a Fellow of the Boyal Society, and is Demonstrator to one of the first inen of the day, and 1ms his work in London, is snpposed to have the ball at his feet, even though hia aalary be no more than 1501. a year. What mattere the aalary ? He haa enongh ta live upon : he has a splendid Laboratory in which to work, Glied with all the newest machinery: he is always in the eentre and heartof every tliing he gets to know everybody ; he heara of every- TBE RESULT OF AN EXPERIMENT 93 thing : he ia sure of getting a good post in time : — such a man »moiig those who follow science ia counted worthy of envv, Wbether, as the Doctor of Bank Side prophesied, this young man will become President of the Eoyal Society ia a point which may be left opcn for time to show. It was an old womon who firat made the Bagacious remark that Time would show — I belie ve that all the reolly valu&ble remarks on the Conduct of Life have beert made by old women. The men receive them and appropriate the in : work them up into proverba: illuatrata them by fablea : spin them out into poems, playa, andnovelB: call them their own. Bnt they really belong to old women. Think of the profound viadom of that aneient lady who first calmed the paseions, soothed the fears, curbed the impatience, and eheered the deapair of hev grandchüdren with the atartling diacovery that Time would Bhow. The Dem ona trat or, after looking round mechanically as if to see that no one waa in difficultiea, walked alowly and thought- fully down the studeuts' room. It was a long room, narrow and lofty ; provided with a great number of tables, each for one Student to work at undiaturbed. Ät the end of this room waa the Lecture Hall, a large Square room with a platforua for the lecturer, a gTeat electrio Battery, a blaekboard, and a vast table covered with bottles, cylinderB, tubea, and all manner of machinea. Two doora, one on either aide, led to two rooma. One of them waa the private room of the Profeaaor; the other that of the Deinonstrator. The latter room, into which Oliver turned, was provided with a table at the window covered with papers, proofä, and lettere, and fitted with drawers. Another table stood in the middle of the room on which were instrumenta of all kinda — dehcate ecales under glaas, therm ometers in wooden tubes, disca of glasa, hlow-pipes, gas jote, retorts, and etranse instrumenta, the usea and iiames of which are unknown outaide the trade. The Demonstrator took a chair at the former table and sat down. Uut he dkl not immediately anatch a pen and begin to work, Hia papera were ready for hin] on the blotting-pad, but he regarded them not. Hia thoughta were outsido his laboratory and beyondthe World of scienee. In hia handheheld twonotea which he kept on reading over andover again, but mechanically and without paying any heed, for hia thoughta were not with the lettera nor with the writera of them. Yet he continusd to read them — everybody knowa how a aimple mechanical trick, such aa this, may aometimes aseiat the mind in a time of doubt or diffioulty. The first note waa very short. half-taught hand, and the spei lirig espose the weakneases of a lady. Tbe •eecad, ortr whkh b* b*d perbapa «bad Mu wer» dmm U&— tat he tbed mm now—wa* longer « ? De*r Oii*«r, — Ob!hoire*n ytm erar b* aaylaxng bot dW to De aiier »II thai ha« paaaedr Ton did lorw mt bi znontba ago. I mbU Ml h •iwa-nl AI hewbjnjrft^MVaM ;,:m ?ee tbe lore in yoor eye« aod w fe*l ihe tone* of yoor band 1 Tov lot» um no longer : yoa h»v» fijrgottea the Word» toc aaid andswore. Ton bare toUme thatiiii »I! orer : and Tmult» yoor letten back again. I will oerer e->* yon yoor letter* back. Aiior the ring y&-j gave me.it hang* about myneek, aediial hang there all my lifo. It isharder fora girl to förgei Ü man. Ton taoghtme Xo lore yon. Oh. too made me k I did not aekJor yoor lore. Ton gare it tome. For «ix I bave thonghl of yon all day and all night. I eanoot I out of my heart — and I will not. Yon shall live tbere ahraya, wliateter happena, and whatever yon do. No one know», and no OD» anapeeta. and I shall teil na one — not even Alth«* So yoa flau come and go aa if no&ing h*J happened. Cissia. 1 He read the leiten one after the other. Then he pnt ihera down. Then he took ihem np and read tbem again. Bat m for hb tbongnts — it ia impoasible to tranilaie into words the thougbta of a man. even the most stupid of men. They are üt up by ao tnany aide lighta, flaehes, and breadtha of sunahine : they are so varied with ahadow and wiih ooloor : they flow like a etream wiili so many twiste, tuma, waierfalls. rapide, backwatera, l&sbera. and broada, that it ia impoasible to do more than to iudicaie their tenor. Somewb&t after thie mannet, however, the yoong man was thinking : — ' On hie £rat atay — the firat morning — he goea to Joe Mayen and iries to find out about old Norbery. Pretends not to know that be wae dead. Aaka after a will. Says there was a will, Who ia he? How should he know ont in Anstralia? — who told bim? Wh« there re&lly a will? Hedoesn't looklikealawyer'a Clerk. On his first visit at home he aaka Dnele Clement what he knowa about old Norbery. Who is he tben ? Älthea says he haa come all the way to gaze vpon tbe heavenly poet. Ho I Very likely, indeedl To gaze lipon the Bard. Mayes aaya he re- membere sigaing a will — but h« does not know its Contents or »bat becnme of it. and he haa forgotten how lang ago it waa. How ahould anyone in AiiHtralia know of thut- will ? The other witneaa waa Iiacklur's chief elcrk— wko ia deud. Änd liackler ia THE RESULT OF AN EXPERIMENT gj ' »d. If no one here escept Mayea — who says he never Bpoke about it — linow lhat thcra was euch a will, how ahould it be known in Australia 7 Why does he go and take losginge at the Cottlea'? Who iahe? Whoisbe?' Ha unlocked a drnwer and ilrew out certain papera covered with notee, one of which ha Bat considering. 'Why not 1 ' he eaid. ' Älthea ought to have it all. Even if her father will cot claim his rights. It ehould be here — and mine.' The sound of a manly footstep outside disturbed bim. He ptiahed the paper back into the dvawer, with the two lettera, and rose from his chair to greet hia visitor, who was none other than the Auetralian of whom he had been thinking. ' Glad to welcome von in my den,' he eaid, with a hand-fihake and a amile of the friendlicst. ? I thought von would like perhapa to eee onr newest Physical Laboratory— X believe we are very complete.' 'There,' be said presently, ' I think I have nothing more to showyou. Perhaps von have aplaoein Sydney as wellappointed as thia. All the great cities of the world are becoining alike, Sit ae all European hoteis are alike. Eut you have not got onr ofessor,' he added with loyalty. ' I don't know mucb about Laboratories,' eaid Lawrence. ?But in Sydney we like to think that we have the best of every- thing. Perhapa we deceive ourselvea." They had come hack to the Demonstrator'H private room by thia time. Oliver offered hia visitor a eigarette-caBe and took a cigarette hiruself. Then he leaned back in bis chair, tilting it np, and wri: l I of smoke. ' How do you like Bank Side ? ' he asked oarelessly. ?Very muoh. I am greatly interosted in Bank Side.' ? You will go down to poatority, my uncle Clement thinfes, as the pilgrim who came all the way from Australia to gaze upon Laurence laughed. 'That is not a strictly eorrect way of Sitting it. I did, however, ask for an introduction to tbe poet Bmember that in Australia we do not often get the ohance of meeting a poet.' ? Come now,' eaid Oliver sharply. ' Frankly, have you read a line of his poetry ? Do you know anybody who has ? Did you ever hear of his poetry before you came here ? ' ' Frankly, no. Ihave never seenorheardof his verBBH. Bnt if he thinks I have, why disturb that belief ? I did not deceive bim, and I shall not undeceive bim.' Humph 1 Bat you had heard of bim before in reference to r mattere ? ' Certaiuly, I had heard of hkn before, and of other people on r Sö THE BELL OF ST. PAULS Bank Side. That ia why I am here. Come, Luttrel, I hav« aeen the question in your eyes a dozen times. They look at me and they say " Who the dovil are you ? " ' ' Ib it not natural 1 I find you instaUed at my father's housi — am* de famüle.' ' Perfeetly natural. I am the Bon of Sir David Waller, K.C.M.G., Premier, unless he haa been kioked out aince I left, of the Government of New South Waloa. I am over here on a hohday for myaelf and on certnin private buaineBB for my father. And I have been aBkedtoaacertain,whileI am here, tho preaent circuinstnnceaof certain people, inchiding Mr. Clement Indagine.' ' I see. You will pardou the offenaive curiosity of one not wholly unintereated in thoae people, I am eure. My father and my uncle are a pair of hermits. Aithea is a hermit. They have never once, untü your arrival, had a stranger within their gatea. Aa for society at Bank Side, there ia none. There is a elergyman or two — and there are, I suppose, a few doctore — siipenny doetora. Well : they have taken a great liking to you — because you listen to their talk.' ' Ab for the talk, I aasnre fcra that I find it delightfal.' 'Very good of you to say ao. Perhaps it may be interesting at firat to a atranger. Ab for myaelf I findit diül. It is the talk of thirty yeaxs ago. I would n.s soon read tho Quarterly Reviews of the seine dato. Do you know what is the moat deadly reading in the world 1 It ia the day before yesterday'a leading artiola. Very well — the talk at Bank Side is the talk of the last genera- tion — which corresponda. Good Hoavcna t There ia not a single point on which in thirty years ws have not completely changed — and thoae two atilllove the old worn-out shibboleths and believe in the old worn-out doctrines. Yet, to you, no doubt it is in- teresting— at first.' ' Very intereating indeed.' ' My father, you aee, hold theae oUl-fashioned notions and thoaght ho could do nothing botter with himaolf than buy a praotice — such aa it is — among the poor, and live for them. Well: he haa hvod for them : they aend for hjiri at all honra of the day and night, they never leave hito for a couple of hours to himself. He ia over sixty years of age : the poor have had the whole of his life : whether they are any the better for it I don't know : but they have had it, and so far as he himself is con- cerned, he haa given himself away.' Lanrence at this point wae by aome unecen force violently snatehed away. He was on Bank Side in the evening, and he was Walking with the Dootor,who was speaking with enthusiaam. 1 1 left my son, Sir,' he waa saying, ' to work out for himaelf ; own creed, his theories, and his convictlons. He has been brought op without doguia, without illusions, but without cou- THE RESULT OF AN EXPERIMENT 97 Mmpt for those who hold thls or that opinion. I bave watehed bis lnind eupanding and feeding ou the facta and laws of Nature. He has now reached the point when ha haa begun to understand the true Brotherhood of mankind, and the dependence of man lipon man. Tben he will proceed to the next grand lesson of life, that he who would Bave it muat throw it away. He only truly livee who lives for others. Thus he will climb to the highest level of all — and widerstand the Christ. To learn atep by step for bim nelf ia better than all the dogrnas of the Sorbonne.' Laurence in imagination beard theae worda a second time witb a kind of pity. How would the Doctor be andeoeived ! Then hiemind eame back to the Laboratory. Oliver was tsilking — what had he said 1 Eut Laurenee was only away in spirit for a 'They atill talk that kind of thing, I believe,' he waB Baying, ' but it has lost power except over a few enthuRiasts. Fonnerly, the world was inclined to believe it. We are all Socialiata now, of different kinds, and we go for flrst principles and lawB of nature. For instance, moat of us rocognise the broad bottom fact that every man lives for himself. Some of the Socialiata go on to demand an equal share of every thing — moat iUogically. We want, on the otbor hand, a ckar Seid for the fight, and for every man to get what he can.' 1 Oh 1 ' This was indeed to be at the point of recognieing the beauty of sacrifice. 1 Tbey used,' continued the Philosopber, ' to believe in a Goapel of Supply and Demand, which wae a very fine religion for capi- talists, and made thoin grow rieh with easy consciences. We are aabstituting the law by which the spoils go to the atrong.' ' And is there to be no living for other people at all ? ' ' My dear Sir,' Oliver said with amiable pity, 'let ns not talk vague aentiment. Come back to the hard facta — to the Laws of Nature. We eannot possibly get outaide them, try as much as we please. Very well. Nature speaks to the Itidividual, not to the Community, Bhe aaya, " Thou ahalt eat." She doean't aay, " Thou ehalt eatforthy neighbour." Not at all. Every man haa got to eat for himaelf. Eating ia a perfoctly individual dnty— for purely eelfish pnrpoaes. That simple law it> the foondation of private property, individualism, and evorything.' ' According to that, the more we civilise the world, the more we develope the individual,' ' Quitt ao. To civilise a man ia to create more wanta : that ia, to increase hia appetite and bis ravening. The more ho de- sirea to get thinga, the tiercer, the more resolute, the more un- Bcrupnloue he will be to get them. Humanity, as it gets more civüised, will beeome more and more a battle-ground for the Strang, and a Hell for the weak. Don't yuu like the prospect 1 IIa THE BELL OF ST. PAULS If yon are streng it wül be a very pleasant life indeed, especially after you have fought yonr way np.' The Pbilosopher took np a skull which stood on (he table and tnrned it over in bis handa. On the forehead aomeone had written in pencil— ' Sicut Dens eritis-' ?Heroia yonr man,' he said- "This is his brain-pot. What- ever yon do to this creatnre, he remains Man. He is Man «ho wanta: Man who takee: Man wbo fights. Civilise him. Then, I say, be wül want more, and he will fight the harder. What ? Wonld you not fight to the death rather than go to live in an Irish cabin in rags and filth, on potatoes and bad whisky ? You think you wonld rather die. Bat then yon wonld not die if by killingyourneiglibour you couldget what yon want.' His eye» flashed for amoment. 'No— not ifthatalone wonld giveitto yon. Man must always trample on Man- Tbat is the Law of Natura, " ' It seems a poor show for the future.' ? Not quite what we eipected — eh? Not what webavebeen taught to expeot, is it? Well: the good old bourgeois teaching is pretty weU played out, I thLnk. We are marching rapid] y to the stage where there will be left no illusions. Peopla will no longer, for ins tan ce, be persuaded that the wrongs of this world are going to be righted in the next : they will therefore want thcm righted now. As for the modern illusions about man's rights and man's equality — they will be given up,too. There is no equality, and nobody bas got any rights. We shall oponly educate the boys for the battle where the spoils go to the strongest. I like the contcmplation of that time, for my own Eart. No privÜege of rank — no inheritance : no rights for any- ody. A free and fair fight and no fovour. It wül be a splendid time for the streng man.' 1 Is there any place for pity for the weak ? * 'In the long ran — none. The last illusions tobe thrownaway will be the illusions of pity and of love. The highest develop- ment of civilisation wül be a eupreme individualism : it wül ha a return to savage times, with the addition of all the modern wants and the modern science.' ? And what wül happen then ? ' 'I do not know'— Oliver laughed alow, musicallaugh — 'Ido not know. It wül be a very fine world, that is certain. Only the strongest allowed to live, unless— which may come — we breed a raoe of slaves inteUectnally and physically inferior. An interest- ing worid ! A really interesting world ! Füll of Gurions things 1 ' ' No honour, no religion, no morality, no pity, no love ? ' ' My friend, no illusions. That sums np the Situation. This seems to ms the tendency of modern things.' ' I came to see a Laboratory,' said Laurence, laughing, ' and X learn a lesson on the New Political Eoonomy.' THE RESULT OF AN EXPERIMENT 99 ?Not a publiahod Econorny. Pray ?onderstand me: I see, or think I sae, the current böginning to flow in a certain direction. It ia interaating to consider what may bappen. Thalia all. As for me, I am a man of scieiiee, and I have no int eres t in nny Political Econorny.' It was aa if he feit that he ba-d anid ton much. 1 Well,' aaid Laureuce, ' I am intereated in both yourLabora- tory and your lectiire. Thanke for both. We ehall meet at Bank Side — perhaps to-ni^ht ? No I I don't intend to believe,. you know,' he aaid laughing, ' that any of the old illuaione are going to be given up.' ' Not given up. They are slo"wly vaniahing, like the miats at irise. We shn.ll stand in the clear light and see onrselvee, as are.' He laid hie hand, perhapa by aeoident, on the skull vin. ' Au. revoir. At Sank Side, or elsewhere for ehoieo.' *He knows aomething that he won't teil,' Oliver mnrmnred as hia visitor closed the doer. 'DoeBheknowwhatlonly found ont a week ogo ? ' He took an envelope ont of hia pocket-book. It was old and »tained. ' I fotind it,' he said, ' in an old deek. I wonder I >r fotind it before.' He opened the letter in it and read : — Dear Bob, — I have got Iiere safe. I don't know, yet, what I sball do or where I shall go. They teil me that the best thing I can do is to malte for the West where new towns are apringing np and there'a a ohanco for a fellow. I've got enough money to last for two or three months. Out in a Western town, I may be editor, lawyer, land sorveyor, dootor — anything I ple&se. If my aomething to make him in a rage. After all, it is nothing that ean do anybody any härm. Keop Clem out of my nnele'a clutchea. Ugh 1 what olawahehasl I wonder if he would have been so hard npon na if my mother had lived. The memory of his siater was of no avail, so perhaps her living presenoe woold have done nothing. Write to nie, •Mnkas Indaotnk.' ' His nephew I Clement is old Sara Norbery's nephew. And no will I And he knows by thia time that the old man is dead, and yet he makea no sign. He is capable of anything — the two together are even capable of leaving all that money unclaimed. And all — all — would go to Althes. I wonder what this fellow Waller knows and what is his buainess I Well, let us think : let uathink, A World without illusions : everymajiforhimself : for i ! TUE BELL OF ST. PAVL'S the man of re=ource a moet interesting world, füll of strango projeets and crafty enterprises. A very interesting world indoed.' His eye fall on Caasie's note. 'Ko illuaions, my poor Casaie : not even the illnsion of love I Recent diacoveries have deatroyed that :ll upiuii.' Laurence wallted alowly away. Outside, in the atreet, he looked abont hiin. Tho City wob the battle-field : the men who hurried along the streeta were the combatanta. There waa nothing, then, after all, but the fight for food firat and for luxuriea afterwarda. There would never he anything elte. All the rest waa illusion.— He ahuddered. CHAITER V. ÄTTEH TUE THE ATE*. The onrtain at the Alhambra feil at eleven o'clock, or thereabouts, lipon the final scene of the moet gorgeoua ballet ever put upon that atage. The central figure of the group was, of couree, the JovelyandaccompliahedGiulia Coroni, the moBt populär favoorite that had ever appeared even lipon those boards. She atood in the midst, eurrounded by ber attondant nymphB — I believe she waa Diana, but perhapa she waa Venus — all with gleaniing arnia and eparkling eyes and set amiles and tow wigs, and all bathed in the radiance of Iknow not howmany eoloured lampa. When, in obedienoa to the applause of the Houae, the curtain rose agnin for a minnte, tho danseuse atoppcd forward and bowed and smiled colleotively and individuaUy upon all her admirera. That ia to aay, she waa a woman with black eyes aobright and so quick that every one of her thoueand ioversoaughtaglancefrom her which he took as rateuded solely for himaeli Youth is foolish: yonth ia crednloua : youth knows not the word impoasiblo: youth went home from the Albambra with beating heart and cheeks aglow, thinking of thoae flashing eyea and that glance. Thia, though youth waa pennileas : thia, though youth brnndished the yard meaaure in Regent Street : this, though he guided the awift pen in the City : this, though by Granta's silver atream he meditated the Mathematic Muse for acholastio purposea : thia, though tha white collar and the flopping feit were already made for his reverend browa. Youth, whe» he got home, Bat down to write & love letter before he could go to bed. He offered nie valnablo haad and his valuable heart and promiaed to lay at the feet of Goddeaa the whole of his future — the preeent — owing to ancestral prodigality — not being worth offering. Thia was the i, and no other, why two poatinen, inatead of one, had to AFTER TUE THEATRE räo the firBt morning round in Victoria- Street. They were wanted to carry the love lettera addre&sed'.to the Signora Ginha Coroni. She opened thera all : if onVcorftained, as aoraetirnes happened, a ring or a bracelet, she smiled" a.r;d_-kept it. The rest ehe threw into the Are. But eh« ans werc-U ljon* of them. Half an hour after the eurtain feil ehe aj^p^öpad at the Etage door, where was formed, aa uaual, a laue of Ätqfie._ young men who still openly worship Venus and come nightly to-ga^e npon the Godilesses in mufti whom they have just ailorwl.in their celesti&l dreas. The glamour of the Btage remains in'Sle'.eyes of those worahippers for half an hour at leaat; whereloW), ßOt the moment, the l&diea who come forth from the stage door.&re aa beautiful nnder the gaslight in their stuff froeks and shabby hats— or in their ailka and sealskins — aa when the electrio light . was turned upon them in their ilaxen wiga and the sparkling'. ? bravery of their stage attire. •]''.•' At the aepoct of the illustrions Giulia, wrapped from head to '_.- foot in a soft grey mantle, the laue with one consent murmured ? aloud, as if the aight of so mueh loveliness, with the memory of that last group upon tha stage, simply compelled the voica of admiration. Thua Beanty, Uke Dentistry, or the worship of Baal, may cause man, natural man, to cry aloud. She walked with her ahapely head thrown back, as if to let them aee her face the better: the gaslight feil fall upon her dark cheeks and jet- black hair and flaahed in her black eyes. In that brief moment of transit she awept the orowd with her awift glance : she laughad in their faoea, as if ehe rejoiced to think of the young men yearn- ing for the impossible. So Circe laughed aloud at sight of her E'gs. Tet each of these Transformations swiniehly interpreted X oontempt into selection and preferenee. Thua every one of these young men received the dancer'a laughter as a gracioua mark of favour meant for himeelf alone. When she got into her brougham, one young man stepped forward and, raising his hat, dropped into her lap a bouquet aa beautiml and aa large as, in the month of July, they are made. She laughed and nodded her head to him : the carriage drove away : and the fortunate donor of tha bonquet, thua hououred by special recognition— he wouM have beeil torn to pieces by jealous rivals had he remained — vaniahed into the darkness. Let us be charitable to thia lane of amoroua youth. The worahip of the actress ia only the worship of Beanty in the abstraot. All the virtuos, all the gracea, all the loveliness, all the eharma of womanhood are concentrated in a ereature inconcaivably beautiful, daneing, suiiling, poaturing, acting, singing upon the atagc. Let them worship their ideal. kWhen, like Giulia Coroni, the Goddesa is unapproaehable, and always drivea home alone in her brougham, no härm is done to mybody; and aince in this cone the objeet of their worahip reolly THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S was a most beautiful wäman, a truly lofty ideal of beauty and gra.ce was nourished ja Che hearta of her udorcsrs. The Bignota lived"ip ä flat, one of thoBe in Royalty Mansions, Victoria Street. -ghe^ was tlie tenant of the first Soor. The ground floor wafl ocfiupied by an Irish Peer, who in these hard times cultivatedtfiaprofHBsion of Directorandwasdoingtolerably well. On tb»;seSond floor was an advertising stockbroker — one of those btnevoTent magieiana who, for the paltry consideration of a ' cover.' pf ten pounda, will make you the owner of a goodly, if not_a-*pripcely, fortune, and then afjain — presto I — witb a twirl of luVwaHd will cause this beautiful pilo to vanish away — ' cover ' and all.-* He and hia fxienda always walked up and down the irt^irs as Blowly aa ever they poasibly couid in order to raeet — if -_kin3 fortune should give them that chance— the divine Giulia. .?'-.Thlaevent oatne off about once in four months, but when it hap- ."- ' '...penedit cauaed thcirhoarts to j;lnw with rapture ineflable. Some- •??'". times, too, they met hia Lordship. These gentlemen belonged ?.--.,* to that clasg of City young men — I am told that it is now ,\ \ aingularly small and (Wu fffao loveabove all thinga *••**.' the eight of an actresa or aaingeror adancer off the stage: next ,• ? to this, they love the Bight of a Lord. Tho advertising broker, aa is often the case with tuen who rnoke »n early success, had a lorge following of friendB : they wäre bitterly jealous andenvioue of bis good fortune, and behiiid hia back remembered his pra- auecessful times, the obscurity of bis father, the lowly condition of his couains, the mengreness of his first beginning, and the tiruewhen he would have bean thankful to posaesa a spare half- aovereign. These rcminiseences, which aro the chief solace of the unauecessful, did not in the least prevent them from drinking as much Champagne, eating as many dinners and suppera, and having as gaudy a time nt the eipenae of this Fortune's darling as he would stand. The mon-ey flowed in, and themoneyflowed out. Who would not bo an advertising Stockbroker to take their money from greedy gamblers and give it to his friends and to deaerving tradesmcn and virtuous showinen? Aa for the top of the houae.it waa inhabiLed by njournahat who never camehome until the Ktockbroker'e friends had gone, and never got np until the middle of the day when they were all in the City. When the Signora arrived home, supper was already aerved and her supper party were waiting for her. The party consisted of two man only : one of them onr friend Oliver Luttrel, and the other a tall and Kwarlhy man, handsome, in hia way, which waa Bomething in the light cavalry trooper style, or the circus rider ?tyle — he would have looked well in the coaturne of an Afghan warrior, or in the füll dresa of an Indian Rajah. He would also have made a good moäel for JugurÜia, or indeed Belteshazzar, or perhaps General Hamilcar. But in evening dresa he was in- Ol cl< AFTER THE THEATRE 103 complete. Apart from bia face and head, which were remarkuble, there was nothing to distinguiah him from his kind, or fellow- profeaaora, who Eure al waya aeen in evening dreaa wheii the shadea oi night prevail. It is now a part of the profcaaion to put OD evening tlresa — the; may be Seen every night in the lobbiea and loungea of certain theatrea. The evening dreaa which they wear is of the most pronounced kind possible within the very limited ränge allowed. One would think that they wished to call atten- tion to their oriatoeratie appearance and mannera— beneath that costume what but the most nnbleraiahed honour oonld Burvive ? The flower in the bntton-hole is aa large and splendid ae can be procured : the ohains, rings, atuda, and wrist-Lnks are big and beautiful : the linen ia snow- white and ample : the overcoat and hat are absolutelj correct. They know a good many tuen who frequent the same haunta, just aa their predeecsaora uaed certain taverna : they are aometimea alone and sometimea aecompanied by young gentlemen from the country or from the coloniea, to whom they communicate information of the most uaeful kind. Of conrae they are aometimea aeen in nioming dreaa, find then it ia on racecouraea. And I am told that there are now certain clnbs whoae members enjoy not only smoking concerta, dancea, dramatic recitala, and the handling of the gloves, but a little nap, bacearat, or piquet, in quiet card roonia. Formerly, the Word Pigeon would have ooeurred to the mind at the aight of thia gentleman, and one would have looked around or waited to hear the oooing of the dove. Formerly, too, the name of thia gentleman waa Eawk, and the hawk belongs to a good and ancient family of fighting habits. Now — Bnoh is the degeneraey of modern mannera — the pigeon, who eame of a good and hononrable, if simple, stock, exiata no Ionger. In his place is the JugginB, who ia stupid bat not oredulous : who would be crafty if be could : who ia only a lamb when he thlnka he ia a wolf ; and would himaelf, if he could, become the modern euc- cessor to the ancient Hawk. Whatever you call that aucceaaor, ftpply the title, dignity, and description to Mr. Harry Stanley, the one of the Signora's gueats who waa in evening dreaa. He was Smoking a eigarette at the open window, and he waa con- veraing in a low voiee with Oliver Luttrel, who waa aitting at the same window. Their conversation, if we may judge by the bcowI on the latter'a face, waa not ploaaant, Althoilgh the aeaaon was eariy in July and the evening waa warm, a fire was buming in the grate. On the hearthrug in front of the Are lay a figure wrapped from head to foot in a great crimson cloak, the head proppecl on pillows. It was so motion lesB and still that you might have taken it for a bündle of clothea or a lay üguie; neither of the two mea regarded it in the leaet. ? ehe und 106 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S Bnr nnlf pn, toothleaa, her face lined with a thouannd cnrvee, beut witb rheamatic paina, an-d ahakiug her head with palay — mmnbling and grumbling — a. very terrible old woman to look at. The girl twisted her wig atraight — it had wriggled round eo u to Cover one eye — puüed her thinga right, and led or earried her to an armchair at the table, where she sat bünking her eyea and bobbing her head. She was dreaaed, howerer, in black eilk and had a gold chain round her neck, and looted wealthy if not venerable. Jolia poured out a tuniblerful of Champagne and gave it to her. The effect on the old lady was wonderful. She ceased to ahoke her head and sat np, and her eyea became eteady : ahe waa no longer contemptible or pitiable. Then ehe looked ahout the table and uaw the two men. * Pharaoh 1 ' she murmured aäoutionatoly. ' What a man ha ia I It does an old woman good only to look at ench a man. Ah, once they used to look at me. Give him all he wants, Bai, all he wants. Brothers euch as bim are scarce. Give tiim all you've gut so that he may go about with the awelle. Is that 8am — üttle Bam ? Oh ! I knew him again when firat he cama back to ua, three weeks ago. He ain't growed mnch. But he waa always a little ehrüup. An ugly little devil he wae, too," 1 Very well, Granny. Now we will sit down and have snpper, and let us talk.' They waited on themselvea. After all, that was bat a retnm to old custorns, and waa no hardship but a rolief. In their waiting the platea mostly weilt into the comer where the cloak lay, beeause a lady doee not change her personal habita with her clothes, and the divine Julia, not to apeak of the gallaut Harry, remembered many of the habita peculiar to the teut, and the road, and praetised them when no one waa looking. Aa for the dear old lady, ehe aucked the bonea and ecraped her plate, and nsed the knife inatead of the fork, quite after the old faehion, without ahaue or knowledge that there ahould be any shaine. And all of them attacked the supper, which conaisted of tnaay eicellent dishes, including cold ealmon, mayonnaiae, aapic of plovers' eggs, other crafty Compounds of jelly and toothsome things, and tarte and eakes, with a vigour and heartinees perhapa hereditary. In the old daya their anceatora, when they did get a feast, which was not often, naade the inost of it. Ab for the old lady, the Champagne had so set her np that she took as much supper aa her granddaughter, speaking not one word unt.il ehe had quite finished. Then ehe held out her glaaa and drank off another tumbler of Champagne. Thia despatched, ehe feil back in her chair arid bogan to murmur, aometimea uniler her breath and aometimea aloud. Bhe'B been at the tarda again,' aaid Julia. ' She was sitting Oli No AFTER THE THEATRE 107 over tbem all the afternoon. She'a fall of onr fortunes. Never müld, Granny — we don't want to know what'a going to happen.' ' The Jack of Spadea — that's Sani,' said the old lady. ' The Jack of Cluba ia Phamoh. I read Sara's fortune for hiin to-day, I did. Ho I ho 1 if Sana only knew what waa ooming I ' 1 He don't want, Granny, 1 Julia interpoaed. ' Ohrer, it seemed a grand thing for yon, that day when the swell took yon away in a growler and I clunbed up behind to aec where you were going. Sal, I was then — now I'm Julia — things have ' altered a bit, haven't they? Look at me now. Look at the fine timea I'm having. Come and aee me at the Theatre, with all the Houae clapping and atamping tha moment I appearr look at me — able to live liko thia — to drink Champagne every dav — to put on aa much ailk and velvet as I ean — what do you call that ? ' 'It means buccoss," said Oliver, whose face, thanka to the Champagne, had lost its scowl. ' It means, I suppose, that you've gone to the front, Julia.' ' Very well, then, look at Harry — Pharaoh that was. Look at him, there ian't a awell to come near him for looks and maunera. And aa for monoy, aoiuetimea it runs like water.' ' When thinga come off,' hei brother corrected her, with becoming modeaty. 1 Well — they mostly do — whereaa you, why, you poor little chap — you've got to work. Soinething in the chemiat Bhop line, I underatand, among the bottlea and the acalea. You're the first man in the fainily that ever did work. With all your work, you've got no money : you never will have any. No money ! Then you can't stand auppera to the girla after the theatre — and you can't give them dinnors of a Sunday : you can't take atalla, nor buy bouquete : you can't wear awell elothee : you can't ahow rmgs and thinga : and as for racea and betting — how ean you go to any mcetinga or learn what goea on when you're alwaya in the shop ? So, you aee, we did better to stick in the doaaing ken, though Granny did do her best to seil ua.' 1 A fair man and a little woman and a stranger from acrosa the aeaa are on their way to do härm to Sammy. Let him take care of a fair man and a little woman and n strauger from acrosa the aeas. A young man and a young woman and a man from acroaa the aeaa — two men from acrosa the aeaa. Lct him take care. They will do him a mischief — let him take care.' ?All right, Granny,' said Julia. ' If every young man took care of every young woman, there wouldn't be any mischief at all, and there would be no fun. That is quite certain. Well, Oliver, what was I saying? Oh I Tee — you've got no money. Now if you'd stayed with usyou'd have learnt soinething useful. I began to dance at the races when I was only eight, and Harry toS THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S be began to sing character songe and to practise with the carda wellnigh as soon as be could walk. You'd have been a tight- rope dancer, or a lider, or a clown, or Bomething that rakes in the money.' 1 He'a got to find some way of raking in the money,' Said Harry. ' That'a what I've been telling bim." ' How much is it, Harry 1 What has he lost 1 ' 'Well, it don't matter much what he oweB mo. If I'd lost, I should have had to pay, I suppose. But ho lost a matter of twenty pound last Sunday, and I rnust pay if he can't.' ' Well, 1*11 give him the twanty pound. Ae for you, Oliver, if you don't know how to play, what a fool yon are to try 1 What can you espect ? Why, I suppose you can't Oven out the King. How can a man be sueh a fool as to play whea he don't know how ? Teach him to play, can't you, Harry ? ' The easy morality of hie nowly recovered relutions — it waa ooly three weeka or so eince Mr. Harry Stanley walkcd into the Laboratory and revealed himself as a long-lost brother— was no longer astonishing. Oliver knew very well the circumstanceB of hie origin : that ia to aay, he remembered the squahd surround- ings from which he had been taken : that a brotlier of bis shoiild have risen to any level in which evening dreaa is worn, was a surprise, which, until he learnt. more, was pleasing. That bis sister was a favourite danseuse was another eurprise, by no mciuis nnpleasant at first. By this time he had teamed mors about hia brother : there were thinga to be deplored, that was iiow ccrtain : thero were things to be bidden. The diacovery of this fact at first araused him : nobody knew that thia man was bis brother : nobody Buspectcd that his sieter was the celebrated Giuha Coroni. Itwasanew World to which he was introduced: he listened to their talk and watched their habits. Nothing at all resembling tkese people had he Seen in Heidelberg. He waa very ninch amused : he was eo much amnsed when his brother took him to his club that he was induced to play a littlc game of cards — and lost. ' Welk' repeatcd his aister, ' I'll pay for him, and do you look after bim better, Harry. Open another bottle and let me give Oliver Borne more. He'a had nothing.' She meant nothing but pure hospit ab t y . Her younger brother had really taken as much Champagne as is wholesome to an unaocustomed head. But he auffercd bis sister to tili him another of those great glasses with which the restaurants and people whoseem totake their manners frora restaurants do now delude the unwary. He drank it. And presently there feil upon his spirit a new senae of camaraderie and fratemity. He remembered that be belonged to tbese people : he was really and truly of their blood: he seemed to nmember — but this waa impossible— the tents and the road. AFTER THE THEATRE Like fhem, he did not belong to the World : he was ontaido he was ooe of the nation which has always tived by the eiere ofitswita. Hia brother, for inatance, waa a betting man, an advantnrer, a card-aharper : one wlio looked about for gulla and plundered them. Why not 1 Why not ? This was a Singular view to take, bat he feil into it quite natiirally. Honour has nothing to do with the wandering raee of Egypt. They bcgan to tnlk aboat himself and to ask Hm queations. By this time he had taken anotber and yet another bunt per. When he awoke in the morning it was with a stränge sense of having lost soinething. Hb got up, and dreaaed, troubled with thia thought — what had he lost ? Suddenly he remombered he had given away a Beeret : a thing wbieb he had diacovered : and that he had eomniunieated, in the rongh, a half-formed idea. It was an idea ao certain to commend itself to hia brother that he had communicated it with boaBtfnlneae. The idea bad, in fuet, met with his brother'a fall approbation. He had oven added anggeetions of hia own which almost transformed the idea into a plan. ' Oliver,' he aaid, laying his hand upon hia shonlder, ' I never eipeoted to find you ao wide awake. My dear boy,' he added, with feeling, ' the «tinost I dreained of waa that yon might get something— aome day — when we are all hard up — off the old man. I will see you ihrough this Job, sonny,' Oliver had been left, as we know, to find out for himself the true theory of the Conduct of Life and of the relationa of man to man. But he had been among fellow-students of a Gennan University, and he had been among Engliah boya at school. He had therefore acquired, not by the proceaa of reasoning, but by Imitation and daily aaaoeiütion, certain notiona of honour. And when he remombered this tnlk with his brother, and the thing whioh he was going to be ' aeen through,' he turn cd pale and his knees trembled. The reign of the ludividual may have begiua, but the power of old illusionB ia not yet trampied out: they are sturdy rebele, and tbe aafety of the Individual'a Crown some- .s by no means aaaured. 3 O: Tbb eiploration of Poet and Player Land was followed by Othet rambles, Althea always being guide. In Ibis way the young man whom ehe conducted— never had colonial visitor ho eplendid » chance 1 — learncd to Surround all kiiida of mean and stjunlid placos with tbe halo of history and romance. They remain, il is true, mean and squalid still ; bnt just as Bank Side itself was tnade glorious by tbe setting sun and by the goddess who «anie down tbe river in tbe golden miet, so the narrow Lines in which they wandered aro cloüied, in bis niind, with tbe niemories of the past. Nay, when he still thinks of them, he sees again the gracaful fjgure of tbe girl, again he watches her tarnest face, he feels again the look of her steadfast eyes, he henrs her voiea iweet and low. Where the crowded Btreets now cover whnt was once the splendid Abbey of Bermondsey; where Lambcth Palace Stands beeide the river : where were once Cupid's Gardens: where tbo ships stick tbeir bowsprits across tbe streets of Rotherbithe : beside the pretty lake of Southwark Park: yea, and across the river in tbe hoart of London City, tbe girl walked beside him, rapt and Berious, recolling things tbat have been. It is a time which he will not readily forget. How should he forget the happieat time in his life — those days when, for the first tiroe in bis life, he began to feel tbat hence- forthbfewouldbeimpoBsiblewithout one girl? A man may sufier from such an attack and recover from it ; and again he may suffer and again recover — nay, there are men who have it like a quartan fever; bnt the first experience is the moat severe and the most deh'ghtful. Such wurship can a young man bring to one woroan only, in all Ms life. Of which more anon. Tbese rambles muet remain unchronicled. Can we not make them out for ourselves from the London books ? Bnt one day, a fortnight or so after tbeir first walk, they propoaed to travel, all through one afternoon, from weet to east, from Puddle Dock to Tower Hill , from one end to tbe ofber of Tbamea Street It was an ambitious nrogramme, because the history of London might almoat be written in Thames Street ?Jone. Yet they attempted it, and, but for an unexpeoted inter- rnption, they would have carried it through. It was again, aa on tbeir first walk, a Saturday afternoon. On other afternoons tbe street is filled with noise : its cranes in the upper etories are always labouring, crealang, and groauing J'.ani mon I ho bBM< as they lift or lower the balea : the eky is darkencd with thi.se big balca as they awing and threaten over the heada of the pas- sengers: there ia a bawling from Billingsgate which can he heard afar off: waggona lumber alung and block the road : Clerks hasten up and down : porters lean against posts and con- verse loudly, not without frcquent use of tho decorative word which alwaya brightena workaday Engliah. But on Saturday there ia u holy calm. If it ia a bright afternoon the sonshine on the ta.ll warehousee makes them look lika mediaval fortresaea or Italian PalazzL One would rather walk down Thamea Street than the High of Oxford, or the Cannebiere of Marseilles, or the Bue St. Honore. The modern warehouees are not in the least pictur- esijuo, yet the names which remain carry the memory back ; the succeaeion of churches, though broken here and there by the havoo of modern barbarians, marka the piety of London mer- chants ; the narrow courts still lead to the old stairs, and the two andient porta of Queenhithe and BiUingagate can still be The annehme feil npon the street this aftemoon as they stood at the West end of it in Frinting Hoase Square. ' You are going to teach me more history," aaid Lanrence. ' SliB.ll we become ghosta onoe more ? ' ' If you like,' ahe replied. 'But there is a great deal more hiatory here than I can teach you in a aingle aftemoon. Come.' Then she began to talk. London began in Thames Street, where two little hillocks. with a brook betwcon, rose above the river, on eitber aide a swamp. When the hiüocka were qnite built upon and still there waa not room enongh l'or the trade which continued to grow, they built andrer wall and more houaes behind it ; and then they constructed their two porta, and aa they grew richer they began te build stately houaes upon the river wall : at one end Baynard's Castle and at the other the Tower : in the midat Cold Harbonr and tha King'a Steelyard. Here lived the Hanse merchants : here were the Halls of City Companiea : in the atreeta leading up the hül at the back atood many a noble manaion in its courtyard, füll of precioua carvings, rieh tapestry and caskets from foreign parts : along the street was a snecession of noble churohea, each with its monumenta and tomba, ita vaults and its chorehyard nlled with the bones of dead Citizens. Do you see the dead Citizens Walking in the streets 1 * asked Lanrence. ' Sometimes," she replied, with a little blush. ' On Sunday morning, when there has been n.o one in the street bat myself, I have met Sir Richard Whitiington, tall and thin, grey- bearded, with a chain of essea round hia neck and a black BELL OF ST. PÄUUS velvit coat over hia silk doublet. He is a very stately figure: he carries himself with dignity, and in bis faco liiere ia Authority.' Thoji AJthea led her gehöht r down the narrow courts to tbe river-aide, and np the streets which lead to tbe higher part : she ehowed him the chnrches and the ptaees where Ihe churches had been : Whittington's College and the place where hia bones are lying still : the Companies' Halls : the port of Queenhithe, which still preservea ita ancient form thougli the buildings round it are modern : the great houses still Standing, and the ancient Htaira and wharves — she was filled to overfowing with the his- tory of the whole. When they wereaayet nomore than halfway down the street oceurred the Interruption which has been already mentioned. Althea stopped at the comer of a street leading north. A littla way up the street there waa a. churcb. Tower aet a little back, and, projeeting from ita face, a great deck reaching halfway across tne street, with a curious little flgure npon it, This church led to the Unexpected Event which changed the aspeot and the memory of that walk. 1 It ia tbe church of St. Leonard le Size,' she said. ' I wonder if you would like to see it, There is not a great deal to see, but the wood carvings are fine, and it is Aunt Comeha'B Church. She is always there.' 1 Aunt Comelia'a church 1 My brain reels. Is ehe the Eector, or the Vicar, or perhaps the Curate only? ' Althea laughed. ' Why,' she said, ' Aunt Cornelia is the pew-opener and oare- taker,' 'Ohl' TTia face feil. The drop from Bector or Vicar — at one time he had even thought of Bishop or Archdeacon — to Caretaker and Pew-opener waa sudden and overwhehning. His cousio too 1 He would have greatly preferred hearing that she was the Ineumbent of the Livmg. ' Her husband was Sexton of the church, and so she got the place. Mr. Waller, I thought you knew that at Bank Side wo are all humble people. What eise could you espect ? ' ' I have found, Miss Indagine, what no one would havo expeetad." 1 Ton mean that von have found my father.' He did not exactly mean that, but the girl aaid it in the moat perfect iunocenca and without any consciousness of what anothei girl would have seen at onoe. Therefore he aeeepted the inter- pretation with meeknesa. ' Why not a pew-opener ? ' he replied. ? Pews must be opened. It is a part of the Church Ritual. Where there are pews there muat be pew-openers. In the early Church — but I forget the Qreek for pew-opener ' Then a ourioUB arithme- troubl» work. Th AN INTERRUPTEB RAMBLE tical problem arose in his brain and took the form of a suiu in Eule of Tbree : ' If a Pew-opener be described as in the Church, what niay be the liinits of tha Higher Brauch ? ' Bat he re- served the Solution of this problem for a fitting opportunity. ' Come and eee the church,' seid Althea, ' and Aunt Cornelia in it." ' Why do jon call her Aunt ? You are no relation of tha Cottlea, are you?' ' No, indeed. But I have known Gassie and Flavia all my life, and so, you see, I have got into the way. Here ia the porch." Ske would have led the way into the churcb, but stopped and drew back. Oh I ' sho miirmured, with pity in her voice. ' Here ia tliat poor creature again.' From the cliureh within thore were heaid voicea : first, a hard lneasured voice, speaking with preciaion, and ae the words were harsh, they aeouied to fall like hammars. Tha other was a soft and genlle voice, replying humbly. 'You meaii to stand there and toll mo that you have dusted and swept the whole church— the whole churoh— in this short ' Yes.' ' You've forgotten the organ." ' I have not forgotten anythin.g.' ' Then there was never any money so easily earned. I wonder you are not aahamed to take it. Here's yolir Shilling. Take it and go. A Shilling indeed 1 More than half of it is Charity. Don't let me see your face again tili Saturday nest. Well — why don't you go ? What are you stoppirjg for ? ' ' I owe for three weeks' reut— aeven and sixpence. Where am I to find seven and siipenoe ? All this week I have only earned three and eightpence, counting this Shilling. Three Shillings and eightpence I Three and eightpence I Think of trying to live on three artd eightpence for a whole week 1 When I've paid one week 's rent, there ia one and twopence left for food.' 'You have only got what you deaerved to get. You have made your bed. Now lie upoti it.' ' Oh I Cornelia, have you no pity ? ' ' You are a diagrace to the family. Pity 1 Don't I give you work and a Shilling a week ? lan't that Christiau For- giveness ? ' ' Let me go and ask Claudia.' 1 No. You ahall not trouble Clandia. If you venture to trouble Claudia or Lucius it will be the worse for you. Get rk. It is all you can do. Go away, I say, and look for work. The woaaan caine out, Walking alowly and with bent figurr . Sfc mi 114 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S longer young, but her face was Htill awect and .ave beeil beautiful. Now it was pinched with privatioo and heavy with tronble. She was very poorly dressed : in a black gown with scme kind of jaeket mouruful in dacay and a very batt&red bonnet. Althea ran to meet her, taking her by both handa, tho teaia in her eyea. 4 Oh,' ahe aaid, ' I heard all. "Vlhy — why — did yon not eome to fe!l me ? I might have done something.' ' She won't iet me. I am never to go on the other aide at all for fear I ahonld meet Claudia and Lucius or be recogniaed by the chihlren. Oh ! aa if my own sister woidd roeognise mo now — let alone the children, who have never Seen me I ' 'Then I will eome to you aince yon muat not eome to me. I oannot pay your rent for you because I have no money at h11 — no — not a Shilling in the world. But we eari talk and per- haps we shall find out a way aoroehow. Oood-bye. Go home «träight. I will eome to you presently.' The poor woman waJked alowly away. Lanreoce looked on wondering, not knowing what this might menn. Then Aithea joined him again with the manner of one who wished the lata meident to be regarded aa closed. 1 Come,' ahe said. ' Let ua go iuto the church.' They found Aunt Cornelia sitting in a hard, straight-backed ohair without anns, a chair of Penanee, in the antechamber, Galilee or Pronaoa— a large and comfortable room beautifully wainsooted wii.h m/slii^juiy, now two hundred yeara old and more, and black, but lustroua. There was a rehgious obsen- rity in the place. The Few-opener's chair was outside the doors of the church, and if Aunt Cornelia had been forming part of a grand coneerted picea with a thousand eyea upon hei sbe could not have sat with greatar solemnity. As for the ad- liionition she had just bcatowod upon her hiuuble aister, that had left no ripp]e upon the aerenity of her face. She sat with her hiinilsu] Itvi- .iip. bolt, njiri^lib, ji-i ono wlio knows her diguity, She waa an ofiicer of the church, which, with ita pews, prayer- booka, bibles, hassocks, eurtaiiis, cushions, beadle'a mace, ita tablets, ita vestry, ita cupboard with tho Saeramental Plate, and ita Registers, was all under her care. It Las been obaerved concerning ladies of this profession, that whereaa most women find repose impossible and muat still ba at work with needle or knitting, anlese they are talkiug, reading, Hhopping, or at the Theatre, pew-openers are gil'ted with the power of sitting Btill without doing anything at all : and of sitting alone and in süenee. They are, to be eure, generally old : they have, thanka to their offioe, no anxiety about the daily bread : their aeason of love t»nd ita alarms is over long ago : they are at rest : the calm of Üie church haa entored into their aouls ; they deaire no phyaical Crom bc •Youu ' 1NTERRUPTED RÄMBLE 115 »rtivity. Sailora of tlie old school, accustomed to long «pelle of calm and to long honrs of idle watch wilh the trade wind blow- ing steady and not a aail to ehange, uscd to arrive at a similar restfulness of soul. Cornelia lookod up as they enterad from the Poreh. Bhe re- coguised thom witb a eniile of welcome, or perhapa of pride. To be eurpriaed by htsr lodgor in the füll diBcharge of her offi- cial Julies was gratifying. Thus ehould every zealous servant be diseovered I ' Aunt Cornelia,' said AI thea, ' I liave brought Mr. Waller to See tho ehurcb.' ' I wiil ahow him the church,' she said rising. ' I Jxeamed last night that I waschopping wood. It is a Bure sign of a etranger.' She opened the Sota and led the way into the church withta. The round-hcadod Windows wero fillod with modern painted gln.is ! fcbere was a good deal of gilding about the East, over Che altar hung a gruat paiiitmg : tho pulpit and reading-deak, organ gallery, and wherever rooin coiild be fuund for it, were covereil with wood carvings of fruit and flowerB. On the walls, betweer the Windows, hang tablets to the memory of dead parishioners It ia a very ancient pariah. : thousands of good Citizens lie bnried in its vaults: bat the Great Fire barned the aahes of all who wäre tbere when it flained through the churoh and ohanged the atone oarvings and the splendid tombs into Urne and powder. Half a dozen Lord Mayors, at least, Lie here ; and Heaven oiily knowB how many Aldermen, Common Coiineilmon, and Ancient Masters of the City Company which came here every year on its High Day. Cornelia diaplayed the teeaaures of the churoh with the air — few pew-openera Bf vergers achieve it— of a lady ahowing her own picture gallary or Hbrary. She was at onoe modest and proud. Laurence t'oitowed her, adroiring mechanieally. Indeed, there are many Churches in London City more interesting thaa that of Bt. Leonard le Size, and it was not conceived In Wren's happiost mood. The young man was thinking of bis Cicerone. Cornelia was in the Church. Cannot a lady be in the Church except in this huiuMe position ? Shainefull Andhia mother — remember- ing thiB little prim fignre with the big hcad and the smooth black hair plaatered ßat to the eides and brought up behind the ear— eould still beheye that her cousins represented the Higher School of Maunera. His mother, the most graeions, the best mannered lady in the Colony ! And who was the Disgrace to her Family ? Cornelia led thom back into the Porch. Laurence thonght that they had aeen everything. But ehe took out a eandlestick Borne Beeret receas and h't the candle in it, sayrng, severely, must soe the Body before you go.' n6 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S The Body! Was there, theo, going to bo an Inqnest? Perhape : for at tho appearance of the candlestick Altbea fled. Cornelia found a key upon her bunch and imlocked one of the mahogany panels which diüered in no respect froin ths others, save that it had a keyhole, invtsible, except by the licht of a o&ndle. When the panel was openeil it disclosed, behind a sheet of glase aix feet high, adried-upbody Standing boltupright, ita head a little bent and its eyelida eaat down, as if ashamed of being seen in such a withered, unkod, helpleas, impriaoned con- dition, ita fleeh long since Bhrivelled and dead, tho skin clinging tight to the bones, its cheeks fallen in, its hps, thin and white, drawn tightly ovorthe projecting teeth, ' Good Heavens ! ' cried Laurence. ' What are you going to do with iL mummy ? ' 1 He was found,' said Cornelia, changing the Position of the eandle so as to bring out the best points of the Body, ' in the vaults when they wcie exaniined before bricking them up for good. The other corpses were gone to bones and duat, but this one, you see, was somehow preeerved. He dried up. Because it was such a cnrioua thing they brought bim up and made a cup. board for him bebind the wain Kcotitig. A bcautiful Body he is, to be eure. Six feet high he must iiave been, with a very fine leg of Mb own, they teil me. And there's an arm for you ! ' The ahrivelled iimb with tho ekin tight to the bone hung at his aide. ' There's a breadthof Shoulder I I wonder eoraetimes who he was : not a common pcrson to be buried in the vaulta. Per- hape a Lord Mayoror the Master of a Company. He'swomagold ehain in his time and Bat in a chair of ofliee, Well,' she sighed, holding the carnllo before the bent head still covered with lank hair, ' I dare say his eyes wäre young once, like yours, young man.' Laurence shuddered. ' As he is now, so ehalt thou be. Then go away and think of me. He is Company for me while I am sitting alone here, especially in the dtisk. I think there'a two of n» in the church to look after it — him and me. Many a time I light the candle and unlock the panel just to look at him and to give him a little light. Little do the people think when they oome bore of a Sunday — they do come — sometimes I've counted as manyas thirteen at eervice.all at onoe— I say — little do they think what is behind the wainscot. Sometimes I long to open the door and sbow them what we've got here. You're a beauty, you are I ' She bobbed the candle up and down so that the light produced the appearance of what we call play of feature — and it was very ghastly. ' As he is now, so shall they be. Then let them go away and think of— of he.' She stroked the glaas with her band and tenderly patted it as if ehe were patting the cheek of the Body in ordor to cheer und comfort hini in hie long imprieonment, Then she sighed regit tTully, as one who laments of reni Ihank AN INTERRUPTED RAMELE 117 Ihot friends must part, blew out the candle, and loeked the There waa nothing more to ahow. She had done her duty, She retired to her ohair and resumed her Beat, her lipe pureed, her handa croaaed in her lap, ae if the interview were over and ehe must now be left to contmua her silent wateh over the empty church with her brother guardian the Body. Laurenee left her aitting watchfnl and silent in thia place of shadowa. Witliout, he found Althea waiting for him, cluthed with Einn- ahme. Within, age, shadow, siloueo, and death presented in its moat hideoua form. "Without, youth and light, aunshine and beauty. ' Do you know,' he aaked, ' thia dreadfhl thing that they have got there 1 ' ' 1 aaw it once,' ehe replied ahliddcring, ' And ehe aita there all day with that awful Body close beeide her?- 1 All day long and every day. The church ia alwaya open and Do one ever goes into it. She ia alwaya alone. She likes the Body. Hush 1 Caaaie once found her aitting in front of the open panel with two candJea, and ehe waa talking to the Body.' ' I should not he aurprised to loarn that on dark days the Body walked out of the cupboard and that they took a turn together in the vaulU below. But that she ahoukl ait and talk to it — I wonder what the Body talks about. Howevei, it fully aecounta for Aunt Cornelia'a pate face.' ' Shall wb go on with Thamea Street ? ' ' Bhall we ahut the book of history here ? Aunt Cornelia haa put me off the antiquities ofThames Street. Sometimea — don't you think so 1 — the Living are more interesting thaa the Dead. Ehe eita in the dark empty church all day and ehe talka to a Body bebind a glase. And she blowa up the unfortunate Diagrace to the Family — the Family I ' He reinembored auddenly that it waa biaown. 'Whoiaahe? Who is ehe ? Ton know her. Who ia the Diagrace, and what is her name ? ' ' I have aeen her here and I have gone to her lodginga with ber. She ia horribly, dreadfullypcor. That isall I know about her. She doeanot like to talk about hcraclf, but I amaure ehe ia in aome way connected with the Cottlea.' ' Curious I She reminded me — but that ia absurd. The longer I stay in Bank Side, Miaa Indagine, the more intereating the place becomes. Think how great must be the dignity of the Cottlea aince it will not Buffer the Diagrace to be within Walking diatance. The Diagrace ! She interesta me greatly. May I be permitted— will you Buffer me — to pay the poor thing's arreara of rent for her ? Thank you very much. Thia poor Diagrace 1 Thank you very much. I have had a most delightful afternoon. n8 THE BELL OF ST. BAU US Everythingwasuewtome. Cornelia's church : and theDisgrace! and the Body — I do hopa tiie Body enjoyed the littlo change of having his panel opened. You will teil me, won't you, Miss Iudagine 1 — about the Disera.ce. Do not, please— I entreat yon — do not let her want. Did yon notice what a soft voice ehe had and what a sweet face ? Sbe reminded me — soniehow— ehe made me think — of my own mother.' CHAPTEB Vn At a quarter before elevan on the Sunday morning there ia waftad acrosa theriverthc mmgUdcling-clang-elasb of a hundred bolla — madenieludinus by ihn siifiiiirliimice i.>l"d^t.uice— from St. Dunstan'B in the West to St. Dunatan's in tho Eaat or «von St. George'a, Ratcliffa. They call the London Citizens to church, as they havecalled themfor athousandyeara. Alaal Theae Citizens hear no more the pioua call. Along the leufy lanes of Weybridge, on the breezy Chaussee of Kainpstead Heath, over the turf of Wimbledon, acroas the furzy common of Barnes, everywhere — all round London— they are moving CliuniiniinlH, obedient to the harsh tinkle of the little bell in tho porky new auburban church : but the loud tongue of the sonoroua City bell strikea not upon their eara. On the South aide also they are not without their bells. They ring out luatily fmm tho pinnaclea of St. Mary Overy.from tha tall needle of Horselydown, from the squab towor of St. Tooley and from St. George of the merry Borough. They maka all together— the bells of tho City and the bells of the Borough — auch a ringing, resonant, rolling conwonation and concert of in- vitation, that one feela how menn and poor-spirited muat be the creature who would refhse to enter a church after thia magnifi- eent overture, and how vory much to be pitied ia tbe poor Diaaenter, who hatli no part or share in it, and no such pre- liminary heart-awakener played for hita on bis way to Chapel. Yat the Cburches — both of City and of Borough — are reported to be generally empty. Laurence Etood at the head of the stairs, gazing acrosa the river. He waa aoothing hia spirit in the man .er eustomary to young men after breaklkst. It may be obaerved that no Opposi- tion was now made to tho profanation of the Acadeiny by the use of the waad at any time. fcinsjiioii->n of all kinds had wholly vaniahed. The lodger had aubdutd all hearts. Even the puneh- bowl was restored to its plaae without ansiety : rplatioua 01 a SUNDAY MORNING 119 tnily fraternal eharacter were established with the girls : tbis young man, in fact, carried so mucli cheerfulnesa about hin> that he could communinate some of it to everybody and never feel the losa. Cornelia heraelf regarded him with friendly eyes, But tbis morning hie face, usually so cheerful, was touehed with Anxiety. Beside him, on the wooden bench of that Tough belvedere alrcady apoken of, sat Oaseie. Bhe was so daintüy dresaed in her Sunday 'Things' that ehe ought to havo folt and looked happy, Alas ! a pretty bonnet and a becoming costume will cause a girl to forget a good many things— long hours of work, nagging, an empty purse, an insufficient dinner — bnt nnder cortain afMictioiis even the coneolationa of dresa fail. Caasie carried her prayer-book ; prosiunably thcroforo siie was going to Chureh, trnt she hardly looked as if the eonsolationa of religion would greatly help her. Dark cireles ringed her eyes : her soft cheeka were pale : her rose bnd lips were eet hard: her shapely head was drooping. Theüe wers aigns of distress; of storm; perhaps of temper. Lawrence glanced at her from time to tiiiie with anxiona eyes, but said nothing. He was wise. If you want a girl to teil you a thing, leave it unqnastioned. Then that thing will grow and awell np within her mind antil it must be spoken and further retieence is impossible. While the rolüng and the riot of the bolls wera at their higheat, Lucius canie forth from the house. He was dressed in black, brushed with neatnesa. Eis father always showed his respect for Sunday by wearing black, and he was not the man to bring contempt lipon his ancestora by changing any old ous- toms. Whcn George the Fourth was king, great merchanta — ay, and great lawyers, both of the Higher and the Lower Branch— always went to chureh in black. The cnstom still survives on Bank Side and elaewhere. If, for inRtanoe, yon watch a row of honsea in the respoctable suburb of Stratford or Uilo End a little before Chureh time, you will preaently observe a awawning of families in- the direction of Chureh or Chapel: you will also observe that the head of each family ifl elothed from head to foot in black. Thia fashion, however, is going out t a fow short yeara more and it will have vamshed— gone to the limbo of all bygone fashions. With the Sunday black Lucius assumed an air of more individual responsibility and greater dignity. This is natural, and even praiseworthy. Man is a alavo all the week : on Snnday he ia free : he goca to Chureh as a voluntary act : he goes to Hb oflice or shop because he must. Besides, on Sunday he goes before the Lord of all, who will presently redrass avery injuatice. Thia thought uplifta his hearl and atraightens his back. ' I tu: it, Mr. Waller,' he said, crossing the road, and looking THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S with visible apprehension at bis daughtar, 'that yon go to Church. Söhio young men, I learn in Chambers — we in Chambers leam a great de&l of tha outer world— are conspi- cuoua, lamentably conepicuous, for the neglect of that duty.' Laurence replied briefly that at Sydney he went to Church regolarly. He remarked that the manner of the little man be. trayed a State of great nervoua agitation. He oaturally con- nected thJB with Casaie'a Btormy looks. The girl, for her pnrt, at the appearance of her father, turned her head away and looked across the river. Thia geature Laurence made haste to connect with a faroily row. 'My dear,' said Lucius, with apprehensive voice, ' yoursister is now drawing on her glovea. You are also ready, I hope, for the . . . the calm and tranquillity of Church ? ' Cassie made no reply. The wise man bows before the femi- nine mood : Lucius did not press the queation. He turned to Laurence instead. ' To give,' he said, endeavonring to asaiime a judicial calm, ' moral support to the Establishment is the duty of evory good Englishman. It was my father's unbending rule. For my own part, aince the offieial conuection of my sister with the Church of St. Leonard le Size, I have supported tha Establishment by a weekly nioraing attendance there. The congregationa are scanty, bat the aermona appeal to the reason. I hope, Mr. Waller, that we may aee you amongst us aome day.' He walked away without appearing to notice bis daughtcr'i daflant and rebellious attitude, delicately and carefully, as ona who would not stain or spot his silver bucklea or white ailk stockings with the dnst and mud of the road. Theu Fla via came out, buttoning her gloves and aocom. C'ed by her brother. She was dreased, like Cassie, in her bonnet and her Sunday frock. They made Cassie louk prettier, bat they only made her look more prim and formal. Beinpro ni us ran across the road. ' Come along, Cass,' he said. Cassie turned her Shoulder again. ' You've had your flare-up,' aaid the horrid boy. ' Take and have done with it. What's the uee of being cross with Flavia 1 She's done nothing.' Cassie returned no reply, Then Flavia herseif came across. ' Are you going to St. Lconard's, Flavia ? ' Laurence asked. It will be obaerved that he had by this time arrived at the Christian name, which ia a great step, and shows that con- fidence is firmly eatabliahed. If you apend most of your even- ings with friendJy girla, and are yourself eaay and sympathetio and ready to make advances, it is not diflioult to arrive quickly at tha Christian name. SU.XDAY MORXING m ' No, Mr. Waller, we are not going to St. Leonard'«. Father goea beeause he makea himself believe that it is grand for Aont Cornelia to be a pew-opener. We don't ; we go to St. Saviour'a. Como, Cassie, if you are going too, it is Cime to atart.' "assie shook hei head impatiently. "Well — tut yon needn't keep in a temper,' Leave her alone, Flavia,' scud Laurenoe. ' Go on to ehureh wo will join you presently.' I've got to call for Althea. You can follow if you like.' Oh ! If Miss Indagüie goea with yon ' Ofcourse,' said Flavia, not lighily, b<it seriiiu«ly, 'if ehe i3 going you will go too.' She walked away before Laurence fuily underatood what the meaning of her worde might be. But they bronght a slight suffusion to his cheek. Then the belle left otf einging and a sweet sflence feil npon the Bank. All those who go to church were by this time within the sacred walle. Those who do not go to church— it is said these unhappy persons are in the majority — were lying in bed, Those who live in the Liberty of the Clmk and its vicinity mostly he iu bed all Sunday morning. Whether they go to church in the evening or not is doubtful. Pcrhaps, in the great ngly barracka of Bed Gross Street, where so many thousands are beatowed, there are House or College Chapels where they hold Services of praver and praise. Otherwise one fears . However, Bank Side at the hour of Momiug Prayer iB as quiet aa if St. Saviour's was crammed and the walla of all the Diasent- ing Chapels were buJging with pressure of worshippera. Laurence knocket! out the ashes of bis pipe. ' Cassie, old chap,' he said, ' there's been a shindy of kouio Bort, I perceive." 1 It was all my fault,' aha burat ont. ' Oh 1 I've got auch a horrid temper. But I diiln't mean what I said. They ought to know that I didn't mean it. Oh, Vax eo miserable that I don't know what I did say.' 1 Come, yon promised last night that you'd teil me all about it. IBetter toll me than fly in a rage with your own people, Flavia has done nothing, as Sempronins said.' She hung her head and made no reply. ' lan't it better to have it out with me than to apoil their pleaBure at home ? ' She was still silcnt. ' I'm as hard aa nails. Hit me and hammer me. I shan't mini If you feel hke it, box my eara. Nobody's looking.' She shook her head. ' Well, then, if you won't teil me anything, shn.ll we get np and go to ohureh with the others ? But churoh in auch a tarne of mind as this . . . really, Cassie.' in THE BELL OF ST. PAUVS The grrl had risen when he proposed to go to church. Now ehe Bat down again and borst into tears. ' The für ia fresh this moming, and (he sun is warm,' said Lanrence, looking another way. 'II is, perhaps, better for ns to be here tban in chnrch, particnlarly if you are going to talk to me. St. Panl's looks splendbd in the snnshine. If yon conia to think of it, there isn't a better place for a quiet talk in the whole of London than Bank Side on a fine Bnmmer moming, ia thera ? Nobody to distwb aa : a com fort ah !a bench, which might be cleaner, to sit down upon : a ßae warm air: and the «/,' Lanrence continued, unheeding, • whether I doa't prefer this sunshine to the rooonlight. Of course ' He wont on talking aa if the girl was in that mood for synipa- thetic listenhig which makes women who can command it so dangerous to unprotected man. ' Of courfte, Cassie, I shaU always think that ths surfet is the fiiiest time for Bank Side, espeeialiy when two goddesses come down front Heaven in a golden shell. Last night the moon was riding in great splen- dour over the river, wasn't sha ? I mean when I came ont at ten, and found yon leaning over the wall and looking at it.' She made no reply; but she left off crying and dried her eyes. ' That is,' he esplnined, ' you were not looking at it ; you wera crying into the river, just as yon aro doing now. It made a dangerously high tide, this morning. Cassie, my child, yon promisod to teil me all about it — you know you did, You said von wonld teil me this very morning ; whereas, on the eontrary, instaad of having ic over first and crying over it afterwards, you have been mixing np the proper order. You've seat your father to chnrch all of a tremble, as they say, and yoa've bullied your inoffensive sister. Come, Cassie ' (he laid a fraternal hand on hers), ' all the week through you've been miserable, preteniliug to be jolly when you fancied a fellow was looking at you ' 1 1 thonght,' said Cassia simply, ' that you oiily had eyes for Althea.' ? Why do you think that ? ' Lanrence asked, a blush upon bis manly cheek. 1 You are alwaya with her, Yott go out apon the river to- gether : you walk with her : yon spend your evenings with her at home : you follow her with your eyes ' ' Yes — yes — enongh said, CaBsie.' 1 How can anybody wonder ? ' 'Anybody wonder?' he echood, ' There isn't in the whole worid," said Cassie loyally, ' another such a girl as Althea.' SUXDAY MOR.VTNG »3 ? I begin to be quite certain that there isn't. In faot — I'vb been quita certain for some little tiine. There, Cassie — -you have niy seoret : give me your own in einhänge.' ' My own— my Beeret. Oh I It ia nothing. It ia not worth telling.' I You tue in trouble,' he aaul. ' Have yoa told Fhvia 'l ' 'No.' 'Nor Althea?' 'No, 1 have told Althea ' ehe paused. 'I have told Althea — what was not the tnith.' 4 Perhaps if you teil me exactly what yon told her I shall be able to reveree the Statement and ro get at the tnith.' I I cannot toll you. Oh l ' — ehe burst into teara once more. 'I am so miBerable— so dreadfully unhappy. Iwishl eould die. I never thought I wonld be so imhappy. And nobody ean help — nobody — not eveu you — though you Beem to be helpiug evory- body — Mr. Indagine and all.' 1 Cannot I help you too ? ' ' I rnust guesa then. Listen, Cnsnie, and teil me if I am right. There was once a girl — a very pretty girl she was— very pretty iodeed — like yon in that rcapoct.' Caasie aniiled through her teara — a weak, wan, December srnile. ' She lived just as yoa do in a— a — yes — a romantio houae beside the river fax from the uaual hauntB of pcople, so that ahe had very few frieuds. She belonged, like yon, to a moat respectable family. Her fathor, just like yours — was a lawyer — -in the Higher Brauch — a Banister.' ' Father ia a Barristcr's clerk,' said Cassie. 1 Oh I * This diacovery was a blow even harder to bear thau the discovery of Comelia's real rolationa with the Church. A bLLiriater's olerk I So mach dignity. such a carriage : such convei'sätion : auch an eightccLith- Century mannor — and only a clerk — a barriater's clerk 1 It eeemed iinpossible. Cornelia was in the Church — a pcw-opener in the Church. Lucius waa in the Law— in the Higher Branch— a clerk in the Higher Brauch. Where waa the family greatness ? Bat there re- mained the Prophetess. He would still hope aomething from the Prophetess. ' To be sure '—he disBimulated the weight of the blow— ' I meant Barrister'a clerk. Like your father, I said, in the Higher Branch. That, you see, waa the poiut of eimilarity. In the Higher Branch. As for respectability. this girl, likc you, actually hnd a grandfather. The ghoat of her graudfather— ao great their respoctability— atill üngered on the scene of bis former family happinen At night he Kat upon the ehest of drawers iu tfie Best Bedroom, and if any follow smoked a pipe iu the room is 4 THE BELL OF ST. PA UL'S he used to cough and say " Tcheehee I Tcheehee I Ton violate the Sanctity of the Academy." " Cassie looked nncertain whether she ought to laugh. Was it possible to laugh at her grandfalher— Vicesimus Cottle? ' In a street near theira was a house to which a young man belonged '—Cassie here colonred 1*101611115' — ' a dark-haired youcg man — a very remarkable young man to look at — he had a olever face, with very brigfat black eyes. And the young man cast eyea of ndmiration upon thia prttty girl and preaently told her that he loved her — that he loved her,' Laurence repeated. ' So fn.r it ia a beautiful atory, because the girl began to love bim in retarn and to think about hiin a. great deal — I dare say all day and night. Then be gave her presents, just to mark bis love, and promised fideüty, and weut away. Ho waa abroad — how long ? ' * Sil month," Casaio mtirmured. ' He was abaent for six montha. Then he came back to London and got an appointment and did something fine which 7nn Je people talk of hiin and expect great thinga of bim. So that the girl grew prouder of him every day.' ?Every day,' Caaaie murmured. 1 And he seemed to love her aa much aa ever.' ' At first, aa much aa ever,' Ehe repeated. ' Which, of course, waa not to be wondered at, becauae ehe was a girl bo pretty and so good. He wroto her beautiful letters, not only while he was away, but also after he came home.' ' Oh ! he did — ha did— the most beautiful lettera you can imagine.' 1 And then— -then,' Laurence hesitated, ' he graw leaa sffec- tionate. Gradually. She did not observe it at first— by degrees.' 1 No — no — no,' Casaie cried, ' it waa not by degrees : it was ?udderdy. Oh 1 there waa no sign of any ebange. It waa all of a audden — without any wnrning at all. He loved me in the evening and in tlie morning ho loved me no longer. What had I done — what had I done — to make such a change ? ' ' Nothing at all.' ' In the evening he held my hand in bis and kisse J me and wouldn't let me go, and the next day he wrote me a cruel dread- ful letter, saying that it waa all a miatake, and aa for love, he found he had been quite wrong, because he did not love me at all. That waa a week ago. Now you know why I have looked miserable. And oh I oh ! Mr. Waller, what could I have done or aaid to break off all bis liivo for me in a aingle moment ? ' ' Nothing at all,' he aaid a second time. 1 He did love me — I aaw it in bis eyea — I folt it wben ha touched nie. How can a man love a girl in the evening and hat a her in the moraing ? ' SUNDAY MORNING not] will 'He carmot,' said Laurence. ' C ould anyone have told bim anythmg ? Bat there waa not hing to teil. And I havc no enemies. If wa havc no friands, we bave no enemies. There is not a Single person who would do me a mischief— I am certain there is not.' ' No one has done you a miachief, except the man him wlf, Cassie.' ' Oh, I am so miserable. I eannot teil anybody. I am afraid to teil Flavia. No one can help me. It is so shameful — so dreadful — to be thrown away lue a thing yon want no more. And he will never — never — never love nie again.' ' If I were yon,' said Laurence, ' Bince the man haB acted like ablackguard ' — the girl winced as if she had been Struck with a whip — 'a blackguard, I say, — best face tbe truth — I would put him out of my mind altogether.' Tbiß be said Ignorant of ' I cannot — oh ! I cannot. And please don't call bim bard names. It hurts me even that you ahould think hardlv of bim. Though he will never lo~ve me again — never — never — Laurence looked across the river with great detennination, Irving to fis hia eyes — wnich were a little hazy, no doubt with che freshnesa of the breeze — on the golden croas of St. Paol-e. ' My dear child,' he Said presently, 'I guesaed what was going on. Aafor the reason — there canbebutone. Has Ohver trons- ferred hisvaluable affections toeomeoneelse?' Heremembered the comedietta seen from the Bridge. ' Has he told tbe Barne tale to another girl ? ' ' No — no. He thinks of nothing bnt hia Laboratory and hia acience. He only told me — oh ! it was crnel — that I conld con- sole myself with I cannot eay it.' ' Was it with me, Cassie ? That was — bad form ' — his face betrayed a stronger phrase. ' Very bad form indeed. Poor little girl! I am very Borry. If yon think that he was jealoua ' ' No — no — no. He was not jealous, Nobody could be jealoua when yon only bave eyea for Althea.' ' What did yon teil Althea ? * ' She Bnspected Eomething— I don't know why'-— lövera are eiaotly like the fabled bird of the deaert who hides hia head in the aand and thinks himself invisible — ' and she aBked me, and I told her a falsehood. I said that nothing had passed between Oliver and me.' Does no one know at home ? ' She shook her head. There had been no aigns, of crrarse — not hing at all — whieh ahould make her Kister snspect. No walks with Oliver in the evening : no teil- tale glancea ; no blusnes ; THE BELL OF ST. PA WS - and now no tears and misory. Of course no one snspected and I auppose that Laurence was too young and inexperienced to know how great a disaster hnd fallen upon thia uiifortttuate damse!. If a wontan throws over her lorer he recorers in tinie from bis rage and disappointnieiit and diacovers that ihere ars other women in tbe world qutte as good as the orte who has refused htm. It is only in the penny novelette that a man hurls himself to the deril becaitse a woman throws bim over. Nor indeed, in a BÜnilar poahion, does a woman die of a broken heart. She Uvea. Hut ehe 13 wounded and the scars do not heal. 8he never finda another completely to take the place of the one who has deaerted her. She promised herseif to tum: ehe gave him her heart : she showed to him the secrets of her bouI : sho took the ima^a and thought of him into her mind, tbirdring that tbey would dwell there all her life ; she loved the man, apart from the aeeideuts of bis oomeliness, his strengtb, his genius, his birth, his reputntion : he was the one man in all the world to her : whatever he might do, whether he should Buoeeed or whether he ahould fiiil, niattored only to her so far as it should make him happy or miserable : it was enough for her that tbe man lored her : for her he was white and ruddy, the chiefest among ten thoiisand: bis head as tbe most nne gold : his mouth most aweet : yea, altogether lovely, daughtera of Jerusalem I To a woman there is no misc-ri in the ivcrlJ moro druadful : there is no blow of fate more bitter : tban the losa of her lorer. He lores her no more : then ehe is no longer beau- tifnl, no longer aweet; hervery aelf-reapect ia torn from her: all her future — the aplendid autilit mist wliich wraps the future of a girl who has a lover — is destroyed : she ia no longer one of the happy and endless procession which walkfl two by two aerosa tbe atage of Life : yet she haa left tbe crowd of maidens who wait together for tbeir lovers : and ehe musb now walk alone. Alaa I poor Caaaie I Laurence begart to whisper such words of consolation aa he oould find. What words 1 Wliat conaolation ? The girl was bereared. In bereavement who can console ? The Art of Con- aolation haa not yet hoen disaovered. Nothing can oonsole, unleBB it be forgetfulneBs : wherefore the boltle, in some caaea — but this is clomentary, We look for an anteBthetic of the heart under which we shall Buffer bereavemtnt without pain and he aleeping tili the aharpness and agony are overpast. 'I cannot bear it,' cries tbe widow. 'Then, Madam,' says the physician, ' what will yott do ? ' 'He has left me : be lores me no longer: I cannot bear it,' seid Casaie. 'Then, child,' Said Laurence, Iwhat will you do ? ' Well : but only to cry out ia something : to teil somebody SUXDAY MOJtAING 137 eise is a ralief : to weep in solitude ia to sh«l tears of rage aud despair. If anybody will explain whj Cassie found a greater relief in confessing to a braud-new ftiand and that a yonng man, than in confessing to her old friend Althea or to her sifster, he will throw fresh light upon the female character. Thej aat together on the ahabby old beuch among the barges and the heaps of somp-iron and the cranes. Lanrence told storiea, all out of his own head, coneerning the folly of girl» who continue to think of men after th-jy have proved themselves worihless : how their youth is wnsted in melancholy and their age conanmed by regrots : and of the wickedness of be6t0wing coutinued love npon men who do not deaorve that supreme gift, and how to youth such love brings no happinesa and to age it brings repentance. No one would believe tliat ao young a man could be so eloquent on euch a theme. Hard it is npon tbe historian that he caunot spare the Space for ao adruirable a discoiirBe. Unhappily it producedno eöect — not the least in the world. Caasie loved thia man : it is the way of a womau, Solomon himself could not understand it : and it was too won- derful even for Agur the son of Jakeh. She loved the man whother he was worthlesa or not She would gladly have arisen to go forth with him to the ands of the world, even if be went on gotting worse and worse. She would love him and be unhappy — yet Ibes unhappy than if ahe had been aeparated from him. Therefore, Lanrence spoke aa one that beateth the air. Then he abüged his line and spoke of Tima— Time the Healer. He called it Time the Eealer. It ia a very old com- monplace and it is not at all trua. Time cannot heal anything, Time cn.u only dostroy. Türio rlt:- 1 1 ? 'ys iv^n-ls und icmeinbrance and kindliness and affection: just as the dentist deadens tbe nerve. Time at bist deatroya the sc&ra — wheu he destroys tha frame itself. But, even wbile Lanreuce discourHed, an image grew np in the girl'a mind which soothed if it did not console her : it was auggeeted by the meution of Time aa a Phyeician : she figured herseif, in the distant future, a sad and interesting creatnre : bowed down with the weicht of that oiie sorrow : she thought she shonld never be able to lose that sorrow : she saw herseif nnrsing her grief : she saw her own drooping frame a'.d heavy head — and the thought of the misery to come conaoled tbe misery of the present. About half.past eleven the poet came forth in his hrown velvet jacket and hiB feit hat. Bnt his head was Efted proudly and hia ehouMors were no longer bent : in Imagination he waa Standing alone in the centre of the world, with the eyeBofa boundless multitude upon Vi im : a multitufle eomposed of every race who speak the Saxon toogue : the? gazed upon him« 128 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S p.:icted at him, and applaaded hiin. Lanrenee. to whom h* kindiy nodded, was bot one 01" this crowd. He walked throngh & lane of hnagipary admirers wiih firm nep and conntenance unmoved tili he came to ihe Bridge Stairs. Tben he left the Book and was joined od the Bridge by the Chevalier, with whorn he walked every Sunday mmihig , after thia official had peeled the potatoea and taken the Sunday dinner to the bake- When St PauTs rtraek a qnartar.past twelve Cassie got np ar.il said ehe woold go to meet ihem Coming out of church. She led Lanrence to the end of Bank Street, where once stood the noble House of Winchester, ihough the etreet is called after the aacient Clink. It is the narrowest and the deepest street in the whole of London : it is like a Long mine nnderground, or a deep and dark caöon is the rock : bridgee ctobs it i warehouses riee od eilher band : if a cart comes along the passenger must tum and !? -? : if two carte meet one must be backed out. There ia a> damp and sour smell in it which never leavea the street even od the Hunday. Close to the end of it is the ancient port beside which stoöd the little cb&pel betöre the Normans came and tuade their great monastery and built St. Mary Overy's Chnreh, now called St. Saviour'a. On Snnday they have swept np and cleaned the market- place in front of the chnreh, bat there still lingere in the aar the fnigrance of ernshed cabbage-stalke, brnised onions, pea-shucks, decaying apples and the like. But the place is qmet. Caesie went to the aoutb door leading into the church, and they waited beside the monuinent of the illiiBtrions Lockyer — tbe man of the Pill — until the othera shonld come out. ' Have I said anytbiDg — anything at all, Cassie, to comfort and to help yon ? ' ' No,' »he repHed, truthfolly, ' kind, If I had not told eomeoi ' Won't yon teil Althaa ? * ' Oh, no, do I I want to teil no one. Lei it all be forgotteo. Hueh I there is the Organ. They will come out now. 1 Theo the seanty congregation came out of the chnreh: Althea and Flavia by the Steps which lead from the new nave to the ancient transept; and they walked home together — Lanrence beeide Flavia, Cassie with Althea — throngh the narrow and winding ways. By this time the reaidents of Bed Crosa Street were np and dressed and oolleoting in the street against the opening of the Houses, so that the beauty of the day seemed t,"ino. But Cassie was tranquil again, the first paroxysm of impatience over. Flavia obeerved this resnlt and glanced ausiously at the face of her oompanion, not darin g to ask what SUNDA V M0RN1NG he hadbeen told. The face was graver than was cuatomary oq account of thia communication. Sbe thonght it was bocauae Laurence was considering what was best to be done — having by thia time perfect confidence in his power to do Bomething. It was in the nature of this young man to inapire vast confidence. Something I It ia the word which Hope always whispers in the eat — fond, foolish, synipathetio Hope ! You havo lost your place ; there ia cnly a month or so between yonrself and atarvation. Hope whispers, ' Something will tnrn up. Be of good cheer.' Ton are ruined. ' Heart up,' saye Hope, 'some- thing will happen.' Your disease growa worse : yonr caae ia well-nigh desperate. ' Courage," aaya Hope. ' Something will be found for yon. That is not izrael whose wing you hear. It ia the guardian angel who bringB yon health.' Bot Lawrence was not thinking what ahould be done. In euch a case nothing can be done. The exhibition of the common eow-hide would only make the offender hate the girl with a more bitter hatred. Nothing could be done. But he waa wondering what Oliver meant by it. Always he saw before him that little drama that was played below the bridge ; and hia face hardened and hia eyea glnred only to think that Althea — Althea — Althea — ahould be wooed by this young eipounder of the latcst and the worai Philosophy— the most despairing and the most de- etruotive. It waa t CHAPTEB, TILT. BUNDAT EVENINQ. It waa ort the evening of thia memorable day that Laurenoe erat saw Clandia — who propheaied. Her name, he found, waa not often mentioned in the fumily eircle, because religiona opinion separat ed her from her Bieter. Cornelia — the thing waa due to her official poaition — could not in decency recognise DLsaent in any form, nor could ehe encourage any religiona Function which is not oonducted acoording to the formularies of the Church of England. Now there ia no form of praycr pre- scribed for those who prophesy. None has survived from the time of the early Chnrch. The other memberB of the household, inoluding her brother Lucius, regarded the Prophetess with a oertain pride : notwithatanding the originality and daring of her opinion, ahe auatained and even advanced the greaUiesa of the family. Flavia, indeed, went farther. This young woman, who poseessed the deairable gift of independenco, openly main- taiued the doctrine that the New Testament Believers' Borough 130 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S Brauch — led by her Annt Claudia — could not be dModged from their position by any argumenta. Thcy had, in fact, repeatedly challcnged argnment, and bb the challenge was never taken up even by the clergy of the parish, it was clear that no one was able to answer them. She therefore attended the Chapel every Sunday evening, and looked oonfidently for a tüne when the gift of prophecy shonld be bestowed, as in early daya, lipon all believers. She also attended the tea parties, lectures, coofes- sions of experience, prayer meetings, and the other gatheringa by which the life of the Community was austained. It ia obviously the first duty of every Beet, Church, Connec- tion or Persnaaion to establishonaBnnbasis ita claim topossees the Truth. Fortunately, no C horch has ever been started which could not provo so much, at least, with the greatest eaae. If one thinka of it, there ia not a Single Sect wbose position is not abso- lutely impregnable. Baptist, Methodist, Presbyterian, Bible Christian, Jezreehte, Quaker, Shaker — every one dwells in a strong fortress, in which he is secure from every enemy. When the faithftu are fully persuade-d of this comfortable fact, it is the neit bnainesa of the leaders to reward their followers by provid- ing for ihem emotiona varioua and pleasing, excitement, and fraternal love — whieh last often deepens into sornething deeper, and even changea its character altogether, Pcrhaps it waa this aide of the chapel which attracted Flavia. Her life was narrow and dull : her work at St. Martin's over, there waa nothing at all left for the reet of the day. She was not a girl who oould find her chief amusement in reading, and there were no books to read except thoae borrowed by her biother. Like moat girls who have thrown over the domeetio life, Bhe could not sit down every evening to sew and make things in linen and flannel, nor could she find absolute happiness in the decoration of an old hat with new ribbons: she had no lover, nor did any thoughts of love enter into her head. Th-e dulness of her life was only an unfelt forco : it did not weigh upon her : she waB not actively diecontented : but the Chapel offered her a change. Heavens I how great a change ! It openad for her the gates of the New Jerusalem that she might loolt through, though as yet she might not enter. Here ehe feit the yearning after the unknown, the rapture of the foretaste, the nense of special guidance — which may, and doea, fall upon the humblest Chapel member as fully as upon the moat saintly recUise of the oave, or upon the moat illustrious princess in tue moat splendid cloiater. In the morn- ing she went to Church with her siater : it waa part of her ron- tine : beaideB, ahe waa not above the gratification of sitting in her Sunday best among other people also in Sunday best. But in the evening ehe aought the Chapel of Hnldah the Prophetesa. FluYia waa aecompanied every Sunday evening by no less a Bau SUNDAY EVENING personage than the Chevalier. Thia exflo was not only a rebel ' hia Krag but to hia Church. Conceming both he held auch Views and uaed such figures of speacb ae are common among rebela. In the humble connection of the New Testament Be- lle vers, in the little Chapel where they met, in the lowly com. pany there gathered together, the Professor of the New Humanity aaw a return to Primitive Christian ity, a spark of light in the darknesa which ahould spread and grow imtil it should ilhunine the whole world, the Hope of the future, the Salvation of nuan- kind. The other disciplea knew thoinselves to be the one little flock in All the World who held the Truth : it was enough for them, This revolutionär? saw a great deal moro. Hera all were equal to begin with : there was no authority : they had no creed : they were governed by no laws : they all had in sheir hands the Acts of the Apostles — the work on which, as every- body knows, the Connection ch-iefly baaes ita opinions — and could read and judgo for themselves. Such a religion, pnre, democratic, free, suita such a Social order as the Chevalier burned to establish. It was stränge: the man who had spent the best yearB of his lifo in conspiring for the overthrow of Governmenta, the down- fall and death of Kinga, tho destruetion of Chureh, Property, Bank, and distinetion, in Company with the murderous, treache- rooa self-aeeking reptiles who are alwaya attracted by conBpirac^y and the hope of plunder : who eared nothing for bloodahed if ooly his schemes could sneeeed : who had fought on barricadea and shot down hia enemies without any aubsequent pang of re- morse: who still, after forty years had passed, and at seventy yearB of age, would rather have hud presented to bim the Haps- burg's head upon a charyer than any gift of woridly goods: who Was of a proud and ancient family: who had consortad with gentlefoUc and Bchoiars : now walked humbly and in rage beside this humble London girl, to a little Chapel whose worahippers were the lowlieat of all those whoread and think for themselveB. No greater contrast could be imaginod than that of the pair thna Walking together i the old man with his white locks, hia soft mild eyea and gentle manner, his ragged coat and flat eloth cap, and with all these memoriea clinging to him, beeide the girl so neat, bo proper, so ostentatiousdy respektable — Cornelia would have said so genteel, but tho word ia fiuling into disuse. ' We are going to Aunt Claudia'a Chapel, Mr. Waller,' aaid Flavia. ' Will you come too ? ' Laurence hesitated. He had entertainod visions of a dinner at a Weat End Restaurant; after an oecaBional dip into the West End one returns with renewed heart to the simplicity of Bank Side : Bunday evening is not lively among the barges : he had spent three nights running with the poet and Althea and the 1 face. THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S could hardly In decency go there agnin for a day or two : and all day long Caasie's worda about bis wandering eyea had been in bis mind : he wanted to get away alone and to aak hunself Bolemnly what it meant and whether be really — and whether ehe had the least auspicion — and what his mother woold say — and so on. In tinios of difficulty one always longa for tbia soli- tary colloqtiy witb seif, and it never, never, nevor comes off. beoause it is so difficult to place cur own affaira before ourselves plainly, without deception or illusion— and when a man reeolvea his hardest to take a calm and dispassionate view of the position he ouly sueceeda in falling into Jreains. ' Come with us,' Flavia repeated. ' Sil.' said the Chevalier, ' if yon stay at Bank Side without witnessing its cbief glory you do yonrself an injustice.' Laurence wished to do an injustice to no man, least of all to hiiunelf. He hesitated no longer. ' The New Hamanity,' said the Chevalier, ' demands a re- formed reügion. Primitive Christiamty alone ia able to aatisfy its iiKpirations and its wants. Yon do not know perhapa,' ha addedin the sweetest and softest voice possible, a voice of velvet, ' thab the little Frateraity of cur Chapel is the revival of that aweet and holy religion.' ' N o, I did not know it,' said Lanrence. ' Are you, too, Chevalier, a disciple ? ' ' I, too. After many years. I hava lived a philosopher : I shall dia a Christian. In my youtb, lue many others, I con- founded the false with the trne: your cathedrala, yonr Bishopa, your priests — thoy are not Christianity, What that is — we will ahow you.' ' Does yonr siater go with you, Flavia 1 ' ' No. She ia orying in her own room. Bnt ahe ia not eroas any more. Yon said something to her, Mr. Waller, that took away her temper. Älthea has beeo with her this afternoon, bul she will not teil Älthea anything — or me either. As if we did not know, Chevalier 1 ' 8ha trtrned to her companion with that smile of bitter sweet triumph that a woman assumea when ehe has found out a Beeret. ' Ybh, we know,' said the Chevalier. ' In that case,' aaid Laurenoe, ' we all know it, and so we neod not say anything more.' ' I have observed the face of that young man,' said the Chevalier, without naming him. ? I, wbo have Uved among men of aotion, have studiöd many faces, and I have never yet heon deeeived by any face. The traitor I know, the flatterer also : the lusurions man and tbe self-indulgent : the liar and the hcartless — I know them all. This young man has a bad üite. He is false and treaeherous : he ia selfish ; ho has no pity.' SUNDAY EVENING 'The last illnsion which will perish,' Laurence n 'ia the illusion which we call love.' Fla via set her Ups and nodded her head vindictively. If Mr. Olivor Luttrel ahould ever fall üito the hands of this young woman, Laurence thought, there would be a bad quarter of an hour for him. A pohtical prisoner among the Carthaginian iadiea after they had aharpcned their naila would not have had a more unpleasant lime. Tha Chapel of the New Tcatamont BelieverB ia called by sonie the Upper Chamber and by some the Houae of Consolation, and among aome it bas a more sa.cred name still which may he left to the brethren. It ia such a Chapel as may be met with everywhere in the poorer quarters : small, ugly, with a little window over the door and another window, round headed, at the end. It Stands in Union Street, which is better known thaa moat of the Southwark atreeta, becauso one must pasa throngh Union Street in order to reach Bad Cross Street, where there is the moat eharming httJe aettlement, or Colony, of cnlture and sweetness in all London, not excepting the Brewers' Garden at the back of the London Hospital. The Chapel was furnished with benchea half filled with people : at the end was a low platform with a harmonium. Flavia and the Chevalier sat down naar the door, nodding to Eome of the congregation. They all tumed and gazed at the stranger in some aatonishment. A well-dressed stranger does not often visit the Upper Chamber, l'ieaently, one among thom rose and advanced to him bearine; a little bündle of tracts in his handa. He was a man of meek and gantle appearance and bright eyes. 1 Eead them," he whispered earnestly. ? They are intended for the Inquirers. ¥ou will eee that our position is one that cannot be staken. And they know it.' He jerked hia head to the right, perhaps he meant those of Westminater Abbey, or thoso of Lambeth Palaco ; but ho did not esplain. ' Do not,' he added, ' res ist the power of Truth, Let your heart be open to the voiceofTruth.' Just theo the door openedand a woman appeared dreaBed in black ailk. Dpon her head was a> kind of black mantilla which feil over her like a veil. She atood at the door for a moment and puahed back her veil with her hands, looking round the rooin as if to obaerve who were present. Her eyes feil upon Laurence and she started. Why did she atart ? Than the veil feil over her face again and she walked np the Chapel and mounted the platform, taking her seat in an armchair in the kmiddle facing the congregation. This was Claudia. She waa euriously like her aister Cornelia, yet with a difference. She had tbe family nose, but it was Süfoned, so to speak, by n int Th< gat< THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S eduction in length and breadth. She was small of stature, Uka ,he rest of the faniily, but Ehe was not stiff and angular like CürneUa. Although she was now fifty jears of age ehe was still ileasant to look apon : her fe&tures were mobile : her hair was abundant and was rolled np in a bind of crown : hei eyee were large and lustrous ; they shonld therefore have been sleepy eyes : but on the contrary they were curionsly bright and keen. These observationa were ma Je doiing the Short Space when she stood in the door and looked round the Chapel : after the veü was dropped again her face was invisible. Felis La ve rock came iuto the Chapel after bis mother. At the sight of Laurence he dropped into the fiu-thest comer, hanging bis head with every sign of confosion. Apparently, therefore, the gift of the mother had not also been graiited to the son. Then the Service began. There was a small deak at one side of the platform and a harmonium at the other. The nonconfonniBt Service is alwaya much the sarne what- ever Traths are preached. They eilig hymns : read and ex- pound the Scriptnres : the minister öfters a long prayer : and then followeth the sermon. In thia case the aermon was not one of ftre and wrath, bat of praise and faith : with simple and homely eiperiences : it was preached by one who, Like a Quaker, spoke becanse he thought he had something to say. When he sat down another rose and said wbat was in ins heart : and then another. Mean- time the prophetess sat in tlio chair, motionless, her lace veil hiding her face, her hands in her lap. She did not sing with them : she seemed as if she did not pray with them. Laurence could not keep hia eyes from her. He was affected with a Strange sense of incongruity. How did thia woinan come here ? She should have been wrapped in a peplum and been attached to the oracie of Delphi. So dnnib, so still, ao regard- less of the foLk, may have sat the priestess before the oracie was Then he discovered, while the Speakers poured out the thankfulncsa and joy of their he-arts, that the people all aeemed to have the same kind of eyes. No doubt there were grey, blue, brown and black eyes amongthe people : but their eyes were all curiously bricht. This kind of brightness goes pith the variety of faith which soofling would call oredulity. It is the bright- ness ofenthusiaam. Every crank has such eyes. You will see it in the leaders of mobs as well as in the Captains of the ßalvation Army. The last Speaker left the beaten path of personal eiperience in order to consider the Position of the Church — their Church. The discourse was clearly intended for the stranger within the ßatea, because the Speaker looked at Laurence, and the people tun Ou WO! na SÜNDAY EVEN1NG 135 turned round and gazed at him to see how he wotdd receive the Truth : whether he would take it fighting, or whether he would fall prostrate under ita mighty infhience and own Chat never before had he known what was the Truth or where that articls was to be obtained. If ha had been the Prince of Wales himself this stranger could not have been the objeot of greater curioaity. The Position, in fact, of tha New Testament Believers is eiactly that of the Primitive Church as deaeribed in the earlier chapters of the Acts of the Apostles. The Speaker pointed this out with great cara. Ab in thoso days of simplicity and faith, so in the Connection all were equal— the brethren did look as if the average weekly wage was from thtrty-five Shillings to two pounds a week. As in the Early days, so in the Connection, if ooe were to grow rieh — tho thing seemed too rernote to affect the imagination of the hearers — he would divido bis wealth among all. There was true brotherly lovo araong them — where eise outside the Connection could that be found ? They had no creed or formula, but all was done by faith. They had no priests, bat all were equal. And as to the gift of Prophecy and Tongues, where, outside the Connection, could it bo found at all — oh 1 where eise— where eise— than in this humble Chapel of a few ehosen believers, snatched from the wEderness of the un- believing worid? Flana and the Chevalier nodded approvingly as each point was made. Whon it eame to the last Felis in his oorner con- torted his limbs and hung his head. Then the harmoninm played a few chorde and the people began tu sing, sitting in their places, a long chaunting mono- tonous hymn, which rose and feil, verse by verse, and produced a most stränge effect upon one at loast of tho Rathering. Lawrence feit as if he were being mesmerised, or were inbaling laughing gas. Already ho feit his head swim, hie limbs tremble, his senses reel. Tben the peopla sang their hymn louder and faater, and they oaught hands and Btood up, and some awayed their bodies to and fro in rhythm like children at a musical drill ; and some leaped and some wept aloud and some laughed. The harmonium, meantime, kept playing a monotonous droning accompaniment. The prophetess sat motionless. Suddenly she sprang to her faet. Then the musio stopped and the people beeame silent and sank down npon the benches, panting, gasping, eager for the voice of Prophecy. The woman tossed back her veil over her Shoulders and Ihrew out her onus. It lasted for ten minutes, It flowed like a cascade after 136 THE BELL OF ST. PAULS rain : it was turbulent in ita headlong rapidity. It aaemed to iasue tarn the Ups but not from the brain : in this waj Che ancient priestess was wont to deliver the oracle aa if it came not from horaelf. It waa fall of ejaculations and of Scriptae phraaea. It seemed to nplift the sotüb of those who listaned with open moutb. and kindling eyea : it filled them with rapture. Ab for Laurence, he was like one who reads a book of apiritualism and finda here a phraae and there an idoa which he compre- hends, and preaently lays down the volunio and looks around and diBOOVGra that he ia, after all, in a world of senae and of touoh. Nothing that the propheteas uttered tonched him : it was unlike anything he had ever heard : he was bewildered. But the meamoric focling left him when tho einging ceaaed. The gut of Prophecy I what had ahe prophesied ? It is not, we know, the gift of for et ollin g, but of outapeaking. What had ahe outapoken? He oonld Beize o>n nothing. The Prophetesa 1 Thia remarkable peraon — could ahe really be a daughter of Vicesimus and a Bieter of Lucius, Cornelia, and the unfortunate Julia ? Could ahe really belong to that respectable family ? Ehe waa utteriy thrown away in thia obaenre comer of "the city. She ahould have taken a West End Chapel and etarted a new Church for the rieh inatead of for the poor. There are always eo msny rieh people in aeareb of a new Gospel that the ravival of the early Church could not fail of anoceas. A new Gospel for the Eich hns not, in fact, been attempted aince tho Foundation, now fifty years ago, of the Catholio andApoatolic Church of St. Irving. In the Borough her gifts were thrown away. Who careth for the religion of Bank Side ? Who concerneth himaclf with the tendenciea of Sonthwark ? A remarkable womn n . If a charlatan, then one of the flneat water. If an enthusiaat, then filled with enthn. aiaam of a most uncommon kind. A truly remarkable woman. She atopped as suddonly as she began, sitting down and drawing the veil again over her face. The peoplo began to Bing anotherhymn — of praise and gladness. When the hymn was finished tho Prophetess arose again, bnt quietly, and threw back her veiL 'A portion for Brother D« Heyn,' she said, Boftly. 'Hast tho« said in thy heart, it is vain to serve the Lord? ' The oongregation regarded Brother De Heyn with admira- tion and envy. He had reoeived a special measage. The Chevalier himaalf^ however, bowed hia head stricken with remorae. There had been grumbhnga with his lot. Ee- bellioua thoughta had truly troubled his aonl in his thanklesa drudgery of the waek. 1 X portion for Sister Flavia. Be angry for thy aiater'H sake, but sin not. Leave tranagresBora to the Ami of the Lord.' SUNDÄY EVENING 137 The teara came into Flavia'a eyes. Then the Propheteaa looked atraight before her. But Laurenca atarted and changed colour at her next words : — ' A portion for tho chüd of Lucy." What did ehe moan 1 ' Thou art com« from the Islee of the East where ia the land of Ophir. Peace be lipon theo and a blessing. Amen — Amen.' The congregntion stared. Who waa the ohild of Lucy 1 Was this a dark aaying like unto those riddles which in Bunyan's atory cheered the hoart of Mansoul 1 Thon they Bang another hymn, a hymn of diBmiBsal, while the saueer went round and tha penniea rattled. He who carried the saueer counted out the monoy when he had nnished, and entered the amount in a Uttle book. Then he gave it all to Fehl, who alipped it into hia pocket with a blush of ahame. Laurenee now understood wby he came to the chapel — hia mother it was who ran thia litilo clinpol and paid the rent and the gaa, and he himaelf was Paymaster, Clerk or Assistant Treasurer, though not aa yet numbered with the Faithful. ' And now on earth,' taurence aaked himself, ' did the Pro- phetess know me ? Cuild of Lucy— of course she could mean CHAPTER IX. •ist bbotherly lovb conttnüb. 1 dai bai eitl When one is quite young, many opinions are strongly impresi upun the inind which have afterwarda to be modilied or aban- doned. For inatance, wo tised to be tauglit by eertain allegorieal picturoB that at aome deflnite moment — aay when one had arrived at the great age of eighteen — a choiee would be offered us— & choico for life~an alternative. It would be quite clear and piain : there would be no mistake at all about it : on the one hand a broad and flowory road presented to our considera- tion, down which thonghtless youug people would be running band in hand, laughing, einging, drinking Champagne, and having the finest time poaaible, bo that everyone would envy their happineas. On the otlier band a uarrow and rocky path beaet with thorns. But we knew very well which we should chooae : for, look you l the beaevolent angel who offered thia choiee would also ahow ua the end of the fiowery road which tbese cheerfu] young people could not aee — otherwise they might have gone on dancing and einging where they were, but they would eertainly have gone no further. For it ended in a flaming portal, and on either side there was a dancing devil with a pitchfork, enjoying : 138 THE BELL OF ST. PAÜL'S the pleacurea of anticipation, grinniug to tfaink how these light- hearted young peopla wonld wery soon begin to langh on tha other aide of their mouths — the inside, I suppose. Also, over the rocky path tfae angel wonld show that there were horering other moet lovely angeht. We neverhad the leset donbt wbicb w« shonld choofifi. In those d»ys we also consi dtred that the oldex OD« grew, the wiser we shonld he, the more virtuous, tha etronger and elearer in vision, the better able to eee the Kingdom of Heaven itseU, and the opeti gatea of tha New Jerusalem. Now, alas 1 these beliefs have undergone profound changea. Äs re- garda the young man'a choic«, for instance, we have leamed that it is offered him every day all throogh his Life, thongh donbtless there are eome daya when the choiee U of greater importanee. A chance or choiee waa one day presented to Oliver Luttrel. Unfbrtnnately it waa not graut t-d nnto him to behold the dancing devüs at the end of the road. Indeed, in making bis choiee, he really did not nnderst&nd that he shonld meet thia disagrceable pair at the close of his jonraey : he thought that thia road, like the other, wonld lead him to a certain ann-chair tnnch in the thoughtaof ambitiona yonlh — the Presidential Chair of the Boyal Society. Everything now leads to a Chair. Farne, while aha blowB her tmmpet, bears aloft a Chair instead of a Crown. It haa got arme and a high back. Sometimea it is a Presidential Chair — that of the Boyal Academy, Boyal Society, Geographica! or other leamed Corporation : sometimea it ia a Biship'a Throne : sometimea it has a woolsack njion it : some- timea it is a Jadge's Chair of State. Sometimes it is notbingbat b piain Windaor Chair — one remembere the sight of an empty arm-chair which once bronght tears to the eyes of all who Bpeai the Engl iah tongue. Never a lanrel wreath any more. There is one advantage in the eiehanga : thelaurel crown was sometimea spiky and too ofteo a miaut. I aay, then, that Oliver, when he made his choiee, thought that he was in no way hindering or interfering with the career be bad aet before himaelf. As if the Chair of Honoor waa ever to be reached along the road where thoae fooliah virgios dancel The serpent tempted bim. The serpent came in the shape of hia brother, the man npon town, bookmaker, gamester, rook. Thia gay and gallant brother, handsome, well groomed and dreased, with his pocketa füll of money, dragged bim out of the quiet roiitiue of his laborious daye and took him into the King- dom of Misrule. Most young men at sii-and-twenty have eeen enough of thia realm to know that it is not for thetn. In the case of Oliver, a youth apent in hard work and the nurture of ambitiona: three or four years in the Laboratory of a qniet German University : little society with other young Englishmen: LET BROTHERLY LOVE CONTINUS' ixperienced in the ways of Queen Luxuria. He wa3 a oynic, because to be a eynio one must affect experience if hiuh it not. If he knew not the aeaniy aide of thiil World, he knew not its attractions. Suddenly he waa plunged into the very inner ring of this world, where everybody seemed briniful of Imppini'ss, everybody eeemed rieh, nobody had apparently anything to do but to sing and donce and fönst and laugh. Conaider. This waa a groat chango from the quiet life of the Laboratory. And in every man there ia a aleeping dovil. Conaider again. Eis own people— his brother and sister — aatoniahedanddazzlcd him. Julia — thedivino Giulia— forme rly 8al — who could approaeh her fofbeauty and forcareloss proiti^al generoßity ? And his brother — formerly Pharaoh — onoe in rags — Oliver rememberedof the former life nothing but the rags — thera was noono, even among liiä own rriutids - ti"> '?'•:??. ertbey appeared to be l'riiiiids— wliu could compare with bim for looks or for cle verneaa. He waa a man of many aocompliahmenta : he could play the fiddle orthe banjoor the piano : he could sing — all in a 6washbuckier,ea\'alrv-cntup eort M way : ho coiild rido ; he could teil storiea : he could make up and act : he could also — but thia Oliver learned afterwards. — play every game of carda and perform all known tricks with tlieae vnluable and amusing toys. The knowledge waa ostremely useful to him though he kept it a aecret. This handaome royaterhig gallnnt «u Olivor'a brother — wonderful to rolate — hie brother ! And he had always expected to meet his brother — if ever he ahould, by misfortune, chance upon him — in rage. How had they arrived — thia pair — at thia preaent greatnesa ? In the world of tue Show, Circus, and playing folk, auch instanoea of rapid riae are not unknown. The clog dance on a carpet at a racecourse : the song and hornpipe in a public-house : the daily praetice of artaandaccompliahmoiii- \v\a<-\\ ikll.'hr. Iho world and puli in the mouey: an engagetnont with a wandering circus : theu one with a muaio hall : the discovory of unknown talent : the developmant of poraonal graoes I careful teaching, quick learning— put all these together and you may undeistand how the pair of ragged Eomany cküdren mann^cd to puah ahead and presently put on Bnlendid raiment, and assumed aome of the nianners of the awell. Thia brother began to oome often to the Laboratory. At flrst he looked about the place with euriüsity. Then flnning that no money was to be made by electric apparatus— with cotiteropt. Strange that on« of his people ahould take up with a purauit by which no money oould be got ! Why eise ahould a gipay ever learn anything? ' Sonny,' he aaid one day, after trying to understand whot ÖH iti thie perl •ref THE BELL OF ST. PA WS the scientific profeasion really meant — 'why don't you cbuck - ip?' I Chnck it Up 1 Why — what ehe could I do ? ' ' Something useful. Something that would bring in (he I I shv.ll get a belter salary same time, I suppoae. 1 ' A hnodred and fifty pounda a year I Three pound a week I ' Mr. Stanley made this calculation with infinite conterapt. ' To think of a likely chap Jike you content with a bundred and fifty ! To be eure you can't do anything ; bat I'd teach you. Can't you l^et something out of the old man 1 ' ' No — be haa nothing. He gave me all he had left in Order tbat I mightstay on in Gormany.' ' Three ponnd a week I Well, you've aeen bow we live— and yon Becm to hke it.' 'It is a kind of life,' said Oliver ealmly, 'that I bad never seen before. Of courso I bko it. Bat a man who baa got wurk to do can't eit up all night.' His brotber latighed. ' Suppose that ia hia work,' he sRid. ? Well, three pound a week, my aon, won't run to it. Most of the young fellowa you aaw the other night chuck away that mueh andmore every night of theirlivea. They have theirfling — and a good fling too — and it'a well worth all the money. But, you aee, my chap ?? — he became here very didactio — ' wherever the money ia flung around— whether at a Fair, or a Horse Baee, or the Stephanotia Ciub — gentlemen lue me are alwaya atanding about to pick it up. Ye — es : that'a my walk in lifo. I pick it up. Oh, there'a a hundred waya— all on the aquare — to look at. The beat of all waya ia a little gerne, juat for two — piquet or ^cartä for choice— with me on one eide of the table and a niee young gentlcrnan with his pookotl füll on the other, and the Champagne ready and within reach on the sideboard. No big Jobs and I U'a for me : lot me collar the ready caab, whether it'a five pounds or fifty, and be ready to give revenge for another eveuing. Then, my aon, nothing naaty can be eaid. And no Partners. Some of my pals work in oouples. They go back- warda and forwards to Amurica : they catch the Oolonial Juggina and they work the railways. Everyone has got bis own way, and that ia mine. Well, you see, Oliver, aince that'a your new Dame, the night's my working time, and, if I went tobed at ten, it would be in bed et, the workhoiise.' Some men would feel aahamed should a brother openly avow that he conaorted with young fellowa having theix fling solely in ordor to win their money. Ohvcr did not. Perhapa this laxity was due to hereditary lawlessnesa in hia blood: perbapB to that remarkable educution whieh left him free to ereate hia own morality and to eelect bis own religion; perhapa, T BROTHERLY LOVE CONTINUE % 141 he knaw alroady that hia brother muat be making the money which he so freely scattered in some auch way as tlüa. 'Well, sonny,' the brother oontinued. 'In a year or two the young swells are cleaned ont. But thero's alwaya a new lot Coming along. My pals and me — we stay until the place gets too hot for hb. You can come among üb if you like. But you've got no money to lose ; and eo, my dear boy, if you come, you innst laarn bow to pick it Tip.' Oliver made no reply. His brother, he pereeived, would not understand that it was the mirtb, and the miuüc, the singing, the laughter, the carolessuess that attraetad hiin. It aBcma a poor kiad of temptation for a young naan of study and soience ; yet, if you drop your book mto the sea with auch a bait, you are pretty Hure to catch your yottng man, whatever be hia prü- fe asion. ' Oliver,' Pharaoh went on, changing the Bnbjeot, ' that was a queer story you told me the other night about all that money — you know.' ' Yßs. It is a queer story,' Oliver replied, with a little effort, ' And the girl who ought to havo it all ' 1 No — it is her father who ought to have it. The girl 's got nothing to do with it." 1 How long ib it aince you found ont P ' ' Only a fort night or so. I found an old letter in a desk and I read it and put thinga together.' ' Te— ea, and you've been thinking about it ever aince.' ' Naturally.' ' Äa you say. The heir is the dead man's nophow, and you eay that he won't Claim it.' ' Ee won't claim it. He only heard the other dsy that hia uncle was dead — heard it accidoutally : he never hears anything and he knows nothing. When I told bim tbere was no Will and that it was all bis — all his — all that great property his — well : be seid he would never cloim it. Saya there ie a carae upon it. A onrse I If I had it I would eoon show what I thought of the curae.' ' What would you do with all that money if you had it f ' asked his brother aoftly. ' I would build a Laboratory for myaelf. I would— bat you don't understand ' ' No tun ? No little anppers ? ' Oliver laughed. ' Yes,' he seid, ' I would take my share of amnaemant too. But my work should come flrat.' 1 He won't claim it I Lord 1 I never knew people could be t'iiilt that way. And he'a got a daughter. Now : if be were to get that money and then uecoine a l'ercber, it would all go to that girl ? ' m 142 TUE BELL OF ST, PAUL'S 1 1 auppose BO.' 1 Then it'a hers by right, ian't it ? ' ' I BUppOBe BD.' 'Yes. I've been thinking over that Btory more than a bit, and over the way you thought of. There's Bomething in it.' 1 What way 1 ' ' Don't be a fool, Oliver, boeanse, thongh yoa may have been a bit 011, you were not so far gone as to forget." 1 What I said the other night," Oliver repÜed qnickly, ' waa a mere fancy. It meant nothing.* 1 A mere fancy, was it, thoagh ? Well, my boy, it was a Yery artfnl fancy.' ' I aaid, if such and such a thing were to happen.' 'How the devil is it to happen if someone don't make il bappen ? ' Oliver waa ailent. 'Now, look here, Bonny. The money ought to be kept in the family, where it belonga, oughtn't it ? That's justice. If the Queen rakea it in — that'a injustice. Is one man'a stubborn folly to keep that money out of the family ? Certainly not, if we oan prevent it. How can we prevent it? Very easily, aays yon. Only — one good tum deuerves another. If the girl geta the money, ehe must take you with it. That'a fair, wn't it ? ' Oliver Baid nothing. ' I've said this to myaelf over and over again. 1 1 Ton don't underetand the thing at all,' Oliver bnrat out. 1 1'm sorry I evor mentioned it to you. Do you think the girl ia the sort — the sort that you know — to whom one oould even hint at auch a bargain ? ' I One woman, I take it, ia like another. And I never met the woman yet who was above thinking of money. Or the man eitker,' he added with impartiality. Oliver said nothing. ' Well then, anpposing that little idea of yonra eonld be carried out ' I I will not toneh it. I will have nothing to do with it." ' by somebody eise. I suppose if you were married to the girl you could prevent her from iraitating her fool of a father. Suppose you begin by getting engaged to her ' ' I have thought of it,' Oliver replied gentiy. ' In fact, I have made a beginning.' ' Without an engagement or a marriage, it would be no use thinking of it.' ' It ia no use, I teil you. I cr.n't think of it.' Well then, eomeone elae must. Look here, Oliver, this is •LET BROTHERLY LOVE CONTINUS' 143 too good a thin» to be let go. I'm going to mate you rieb. Can you, to begin with, get engnged to thia girl 1 ' Oliver eonsidered for a few niinutea. While he sat consider- ing, bis faoe changed. It became once more, aa it had been in the old days when he waa a half-atarved ohild, a face aa of a akull with a tight akia over it, crowned with & thick black mal ' Yes, he aaid sallenly, ' ehe shall be engaged to me, whether ahe likes it or not.' 1 When ahe ia, let me know,' Mr. Stanley roae aa if to go. 'Time enough then.' 1 What do you maan to do 1 ' Oliver aaked witb alarm. ' My boy, you shan't be put to the leaat trouble, or danger, OT dimoulty in thia matter. I know a poor devil — a lawyer he waa once, but he came to grief over the money — couldn't count it, I auppose — who'll do the whole Job. He'a paralysed now : lives by writiug whatever he'a told to write. You want a certain documeot. Give him the names and the eignaturea, tho datea and all about it, and that document, whatever it ia, will be ready to time.' ' He knowfl your name, I snppose ? ' ' If you auppose that, you auppose I am a fool. No, my aon ; he does not know my name. And if he did, nobody knows that I'm your brother. And as for you, he'a never Been yoa, nor heardofyou, and you won't eomo into the business at all tili the end.' ' And when we've got the document, what then ? ' ' We'll think of that afterwarda. Can you get the aig- natures ? ' Oliver opened a drawer and diew out a paper, 'Here is an old doed. I picked it up in Joe Mayas'8 office the other day. It contains the aignature of Samuel Norbery. The other aignaturea are hia witneBses— Joseph Mayea and an old clerk who is dead.' ' Oh ! Who is Joseph Mayea ? ' ' He waa Mr. Norbery'a clerk, and now Calla himself hia BUcceaaor. He'a got some of the papera of the old businesB.' ' Oh I He'a got the papers. I auppose he might have been one of the witnesses if a will had been made.' ' Very likely. Most likely.' ' Do you know bim ? ? ' Yea — very well. I have alwaya known him.' 'Humphl If stich b, will roere found ainong the papera, what would he be likely to do, now ? ' 1 He would certainly try to make terms with the parties oonoemed before he showed the document.' 'Good man I Well now— Bupposing— liaten to me— snp- himaelf to find the thing among the papers — eh? — without eipecting or Buspecting — eh ? — what then ? ' ' I dou't underatand.' 'Thiiikabit. Firat.he frads— snppose— awill. Thisatartles bim more than a bit. Then he finde his own name ae a witneaa, Tliis is another startler. Ha knowa, very well, that he never eigned that cum«. Thoreforo, not being quite a fool, he porceivea that the thiog ia a plant. Very good. He puta. it aside — mind, he don't destroy it — and he thüikB it over. The more he thwks it over, the more he beging to lemember when and where he eigned that will. And mind — he'a got to produce it — nobody eise — and, if neceaaary, he'a got to Ewear to it. Nobody eise haa got anythmg to do with it. If there's a row they go for him, not for you and rae. Do von catch on ? It'a thia way. If he producea the will — he will get from eomebody ooncerned, after the money ia aeonred — a Big lump. If he don't he will get nothing. He knowa he didn't write the will — he may BUEpeot what he pleaaea. Let bim auspect. And it'a all to his advan- tage that thero ahall nover be any proof. Now, young man, do you begin to tumble 1 ' Oliver Bat down and gaaped. The audacity of the propoaal filled bim with amazement. If the thing could be really Jone, without any aeaiatance at all from himaelf 1 and if the thing, should it fad, be made to appear the work of another man I ' I will take thia paper,' aarid Pharaoh, putting it into hie poeket. ' Now give me the füll namea. Oh 1 they are in the deed. But — I aay— what about tha second witness ? ' ' Take the man in that paper. It was old Boekler's Clerk — and he'a dead.' 'Well— and the date?' ' Make it aeven or eight yeairs ago— any day.' ' Oood. But suppoae we wäre to fix a day when he could be proved to have been ont of town ? ' 1 Old Norbery never went out of town.' ' Better and better.' ' I have iearaed,' Said Oliver, trying not to look guilty, ' that a will ia nearly alwaya kept by the solicitor who drawa it. I Generali}- he keeps the letter of Instruction if there ia any, and the first draft ae welk Let na have all those. Hera is a letter uf ilr. Norbery'a, to ahow the handwriting — and here ia a paper flniwn in the handwriting of Mr. Backler his lawyer. You eee, U ia written on large thin blue paper.' ' Oliver,' aaid hie brother with eyes of admiration, ' yon've put a head. You will be a credit to your family yet, though yon wore bought for a fl-pun note.' . . *L£T BROTHERLY Z.OVE CONTINUS' 145 He took these papers too, and plaeed them in his poeket. ' There's one thing more,' said Oliver. ' The old m^n uad robbed hie brother-in-law and therefore he hated his nephew. Better let that be expressed in the will. ' How about a condition — tho money to go to the girl when ehe marrieB Ohver Luttrel— eh ? ' 1 No — no — not that. Say — when ehe changea her name — on the day of her marriaga — when ehe ceasefl to be Althea Iodagine.' 'Yes. I aeo. That ia better.' Mr. Stanley made a note to thls effect. ' That shows a good atrong healtliy fauiily animoaity. TOian ehe ceases to be an Indagine. We'll add alittlo clause about you, I think. Banuny,' he addad with greal feeling : ' I really feel proud of you. Tou call tliis just a inere fancy, do you ? — with everything cut and driüd roatly to hand. Just a mere fancy, was it ? Well, you ahall g^ve that dear girl her money : you ahall pay the man— what'a hü name ?— Mayes — a thouaand ponnds — five thousand pounda. How much is it 1 Half a million 1 We'll make tho nülestones ßy. Not a Word mere tili you are engaged. Come to Julia's to-morrow evening. There will be one or two people and a little Nap, or something lively, afterwards. I'll lend you aome money. Until thia oomea off — I'll keep you rolling in money. But, aonny, for Lcrd'a sake don't play with the aportamen of the Stephanotis Club.' CHÄPTEB X. Thet wera talking of the Poet. ' Above everything,' eaid hia daughter. * I wiah that he eoali. go back to the world of letters and rejoin hie old oompanions. ' After all these years rnost of them muat be dead and gone," Laurenoe repliod. ' I have been into Fleet Street and aearched the old haunts. No poete I am told meet now at the Bainbow, except accidentally.' 'You have givenhim now life, Mr. Waller. If onlyyoncould take lii'n back again to the old waya. I drcam of hia toking up again, even after all these yeara, the active life which be gave up thirty yeara ago.' Laorence refleoted. ' As for the world of lettere,' he Said, ' I know nobody in it. Tour father ia the only poct I have ever seen. But I might make bim willing to find hia wo way back. May I try — if only for the sake of pleasing you ? ' 146 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S His voice dropped » little : a girl with the le&st grün of coquetry would bave obaerved Et softening of bis eyes. Bat Allheft tbought not of those tliings. Sbe was ihinking of her father. Better would it have been had ahe shown eoine Uttle — »ny little— «ense of what inight be in the yoong man's heart. Better had be forced her, then and there, to widerstand. Bnt be was in the Paradise where in a pnrple mist everything that one desirea seems about to happen of ite own aceord. In such a Paradise one nover desirea to hwry thinga. Why ahaie the tree when the fruit is about to fall ? Happy bind I Happy tboae »ho live in it, though they presently.it must be confesBed, get tat and lazy. He set himself to the task, however — and he succeeded. It was by an ortful deception tbat the moralist cannot but deplore. You »hall hear what it wae. Now an artful deception of the more elaborate kind takes a little time to arrange. Duplicity ia troubleBome. Treachery requLrea stago management. When bis scheine waa perfocted he repaired to the house in New Thamce Street, a paper careleasly rolled up in his band — it was in the morning — and he boldly knoeked at the door of the poet's study. Nothing lesa th&n the poet's study, if you please. He knew not, altogether, hia own temerity. Yet no one, not even Älthea, had ever before ventored to disturb the sacred »eclusion of this spot in the morning. Why, it is in the morning tlint the darling of the Muses gets his finest ideaa. The chÜdren of VieeskuuB dtd not more reügiously respect the sanctity of the Academy. Yet this young man boldly, fearlessly, knoeked at the door with lese heaitation than if it had been a lawyer's The room into which he entered was lined with books all round the walle from flaor to ceiling : there was not a single new book on the shelvas, not one whoee freshneaa of bindmg proclahned it to be leas than thirty ^eara old. The Poet was discovered atanding at hia shelves taldng down one book after another in the idle manner of one who loves books so well aa to love handling them. He wae, in fact, ' looking up a point.' Many idle inen aro perpetually employed in looking up a point. With his fine, delioate featurea, his long white hau-, his toll figure, he looked every inch a poet. He was clad in a dressing- gown made of eome shawl-like etuff frayed at the wrists and ragged at the skirts. Thirty or forty years ago all poeta, autbui's, actors, musicians, dmmntists and painters, Bohemiana and Lacbelors, wore such a dressing-gown in the morning — as well be out of lifo na out of fashion. The dressing-gown waa in fact as much a part of the litarary profession in those days as the stout-and-oyater supper after the play and the half a dozen goea of brandyor whisky punch after the oyaters, The garnient was tied about bis waist by a thiek crimson rope with tassels, once very splendid tbough now faded; and what withtho books, the dressing-gown, the criinson rope, the white beard, and the flowing loci», the Poet looked and feit extremely professional and business-like. He looked up and smiled a welcome— actnally be welcomed a visit di who dared to dtsturb bis niornings. He who bad receivod no viaitors for so »uury yeara! ' You, my young n-icnd ? Come in — oome in. You wiabed perhapa to eee my den — the poet's Workshop. Ha I ha I A Sioor plaoe — a poor place— but look around you 1 ' He himaelf ooked round with a Utile auxiety as to the properties. It ia not on the stage alone that wo aio anxiouB about the properties. He was reassored. The table was strewn with papers, and these — as thoy should be — wero covered with verscs; an open drawer ehowed a pile of MSS. ; a pen lay lipon the papers ; three or four noto-books lay open [ the chair looked as if it had been just pushed back ; by the empty fireplace was a long, low leather chair, on tbe soat of wbich lay an open book ; on a smaller table at tbe window was a row of books, some open, some waiting, all tossed in an admirable confusion ; on the mantelshelf bung pencil skctehes, framod, of literary men, famous the generation agone, the memory of whom is now somewbat faded. Mr. Indagine feit on the wbolfl Mtiafied tritt) tbe look of his study : it had a certain learned disorder as of the Scholar and the Poet ; it showed a wealth of books; it looked like work. One thing alone was wanting. There were no proofs. This defect went to bis heart liko a knife. It soenicd to spoil all. There should have been a pile of proofa — printer's proofs. But — he took Courage again— would this Omission be pereeived by the young gentleman from far Australia ? ' Youmay retirefromsociety, Mr.Indagine,'saidhiBadmirer, 'but you cannot, I observe, retire from work.' ' One muBt work or die. Not to work would be Mgh treason to the Muse. The gift of expression is oonferred, I take it, Sir, on tbe express condition of work.' ' You must have done a great deal sräce you came here.' The Poet sat down in liis arm-chair, crossing his legs and resting bis fragers one upou tbe other. It is an admirable atti- (nde for one who speaks words of weight. 1 1 have worked — sometimes sucecssfiiUy — soraetimeB, as is tbe case with all who work on Art of auykind.with less auccesa. The roBnlts of tbirty yeara are in this room.' ' Then wo may expect anothar volume — many other TOlumes ? ' Young gentleman, I eaid work : I did not say, pnblication.* "Snrely — with Submission — one includes tbe other.' Li THE BELL OF ST. PAÜL'S ' My dear young feiend,' Mr. Indagine rose aolemnly, "I will oonfida to you that I have had, not arabitione— at my age ambi. tions aro dend — but a Design, a PurpoBe. I have propoaed to myaelf a poBthnmons pleasure : I have reaolved npon leaving behind ms, at my death, my works ready for publication.' * Oh 1 at yonr death I Nay, Mr. Indagine ' 1 Would you have me give them — my enemies — another opportnnity for showing their malice and malignity ? No, Bir, no." ' Bnt — thirty years— your anemios are dead by thia time. Or they are now powerlesa. What were you sayingtheother night ? We were talking of popularity and we argued back rrom Auatralia to the Mother Country. Think : you took the line that if a man was populär in the coloniea he must firat have been populär at home, you remembor ? The inforonce, Mr. Indiigine, though you made no personal applioation, was obvioua, permit me to aay, to every one preBent.' The Poet aal down again and mnrnmred aoftly, aa theae Rrateftü. wordsof flattery droppedupon hia ear. Theyoungman looked ao earneat, ao deferent, and with eycs of auch admiration, that he could not choose but to murmur and purr. 'Only one inference ia posaiblc,' Lanrence repeated. The Poet laid hü head upon hia hund. ' You wiah me ' he began. ' I wish you to oome out of thia retreat, where you have ahut yourself np too long and to return to the world with the harrest — the aheavea, the golden grain — of your long aeclusion.' 'To roturn? No, no — it ia too late.' ' Aa for your old rrienda,' Laurence continuod, ' they are gone. Most of them are dead, and the world has, I assure you, long aince forgotten the eavage attack made upon your name and 1 How ? If my veraaB ha-ve become populär, how cari tho world have forgotten the histoiy of the poet ? ' ' There are Borna poets, perhapa, into whose private life the world seldom inquirea. It learns that they lead a retired life. No one, for example, hafl ever -written a life of TennjBon — or of Longfeüow.' ' It would be, I confesa, a triumph to appear in the world He Bat P a s ' Surely. Though the old oirolee of which you have told me > long aince broken up. By the way,' Laurenee bluBhed and heaitated, ' there ia a eunous Illustration of that inference— I aaid it waa an obvioua inference — which I have iust aeen in a paper. He unfolded and atraightened the paper in his hand. ' It is the Baturday heview.' He laid it on the table and turaed over the pages. ' You know the Saturday Review ? ' ; THE 'SATURDAY REVIEW l emall type which are fonnd aa on the single sheet of four the very niiddle of the paper. i Mr. Indagine eagerly turned e faltered, I remember it. Yes, yes — it was started by Bome men in set. There was a clever man named — I forget bis name — who became Editor. Th& Saturday Reviea — doesit exiat still? It began eleverly.' 1 Why, here it ia 1 I should rather think it did erist 1 There ie an article abtrat you in it.' 'An article'? An article aboat me?' The Poet started to his feet. ? Äbont me? ' ' There may have been a thousand abont yon while yott have been hiding away. However, here is one.' 1 Give it to me — give it to me.' The article waa one of those i in the middle of the Journal. It v pages which is aometimea fonnd it ' It is called,' Baid Lanrence, a over the pages, 'The Poet of a Single Volnme.' Mr. Indagine read it aloud. Äs he read, his v his cheek flushed, and his eyes glowed. The writer of the article began by asking who was Clement Indagine, and what had beeome of "im . He likened him nnlo ? certain Waring commemorated by another poet. He asked why, after one effort, one Single volnme of verse, which con- tained proniise if not actual fmished werk, of a higher order than had ever been given to the World eines the appearance of Eeats's Poems, the writer had snddenly disappeäred. This opening sentence it was which made the voiee of the reader to The article oecupied a colnmn and a half in length, and pro- aeeded to qnote from the poems and to comment npon them, but as in the capacity of hiunble admirer rather thao hard and col.l oritic. ThereadersoftheSafurifaj JfeuwTiimnsthaveinarvelled greatly at the atütude of this writer, because, to one who read the extracted gerne, they did not seem so very wonderful after all. They might even be called corumonplace. Now, it is not the wont of this Journal to bestow unstinted praise upon medioero poets and oommonplace writers. Perhaps, however, there wer» finer passages lying nnquoted in the volume. The praise might have seemed to the habitual reader overdone, even on the sup- position of the hidden gems, and one who read the paper regn- larly would perhaps have observed a je-ne-taU-qaoi in the style not altogether in hannony with the rest of the paper. But Mr. Indagine had not seen the Saturday Review for thirty years, and the article was praise of his own work. There füre he saw nothing Strange, forced, or dissonant. In oonolnsion the writer said : — We have qnoted enough from the remarkable volnme before to prove that this unknown anthor was as a Poet a wbole I ISO THE DELL OF ST. PAUVS bead and Shoulders above any of hia time, except Tennyson and Browning. In tho awec-tneaa und flow of Mb inetrea he antici- pates Swinburne : in quiet pathos he surpasaes Longfellow: in simple nnstudied grace he is equal to Austin Dobson : in tha dexterity and ease of hia verae he rcseinblea Edmund Gobbb. The wideapread fevour wilh which he is now regarded : the natural manner in which his lines spring to the meniory of writer and spealter, and are daily quoted, and have beeome houaehold words : show that the world at largo is, like ourselvea, anxious to know what, who, and whonce is this Clement Indagine. Ifit waB an adopted name, what was his realname? Ifhebe one of those to whom the Gods have shown tbeir lovo in tha manner cuatomary to tha Olympiana, where did he live and when did he die ? If he is etill living, why has he written no more ? "Why was ho recoived at iirat with mdiiTcrcnce, or con- tempt, or worse ? By what Strange fate has this writer been passed over and negleelßd by bis own generation only to spring mto new and vigoroiiB lifo in that which followe ? This is a unique literary phenomeiioo : and it ahould be taken to henrt by the moßt unsuccesBlul. Nay: we believe that the story of Clement Indagine and his posthumous farne— if indeed it be posthumous — will hereafter beeome as much a commonplace of consolution for tho failuros in Poetry aa the liistory of tho rejee- tion of Vaniiy Fair has been to the noveliat who hawks his bolster of MSS. from publisher to publiaher. But let sonieoce — someone — teil us — who — who was Clement Indagine? " The Poet read the laat linea in an agitated voiee. The teara atood in hia eyea : hia ups trombled : his cheek was flushed. Then he folded the paper and Lried to appear calm and eritieal. ' This,' he aaid, ' ia — ahoin l— unexpected— I confess, and gratifying— most gratifying. I admit, young gentleman, that it is moat gratifying. After so many yoara to find oneself the subjeet of euch criticism — so appreciative and so generous — ia indeed a pbenomenon in the History of Lettera. It ia very gratifying. The language of the writer, I thinlc, is calm, eritieal — even oold in parte.' Oh, Poet I ' Bnt it is aympathetia throughout. Perhaps a more typical selection of pieces might have been made for quotation, but the writer speaks from a füll heart ; hia mind is fully eharged with the vereos— he ia saturated with his autbor. That is as it ahould be. Young gentleman, you are singularly fortunate. You are a stranger from for AuatraÜa — &om the Antipodes — yet you — and none but you — bring me the news that I am read and loved out there — out there — and therefore, by inferenca — yea, yes, by inferenoe — at home. And then you — none but you- — bring u and tangible proof— that I am a name own people.' THE 'SATURDAY REVIEW» ici :e broke. Ee Bat down and was silent für a Space. ia were humid. Laurence, who had amiled whüe be epoke of the coldness of le writer, now watched him with anxioua look. Had he gone too far ? ' My ambition,' Said the Poet, ' has heen achieved. After long years it has been achieved. Now let nie depart in peace, eince lifo has no more to give me. I aay, young gentlenum/ ha rose with unsteady legs, ' let tue — let me ' Lawrence eaught him in bis arma as he feil forward, faintiag. The crown of laiirel — late pluckeel, lato wreathod— was too mueb for bim. Ten minulea later he had reeovered and waa Bitting np, the SaUinhiy Review still in his hands. ' But for yon, Mr. Waller,' he Eaid, ' but for yon I shonldnever have seen this. I cannot, indeed, thank you too much. No, I cannot, I cannot. The sight of this articlo haa bcoaafat me such a moment of bappineES as I never expected to feol. Will you leave me now 1 I must think — I muat think. No, without yon I shonld never have heard of my own fame. Älthea hbes no papers. My brother-in-Iow reads nothing— Oliver teils üb nothing. The Cottle girla, poor ohildren I hardly know the meaning of litcraturo. Leave me now.' ' One moment, Mr. Indagine.' Laurence took the paper ont of the poet's hands, and opening a penknifa, be cut ont the article. ' Yon don't want the whole paper, do yon ? I will take that away. Bemember, Sir, wo must have more work frnm you,' 'Kai bat' the Master laughed: the Master threw back hia head and laughed : ' more work I Yes. You ahall have it. Mqn Work ! It lies ready for you in the drawer.' ' And you must return to society. Promise me that yon will come out of your seclusion and return to the world.' ' Yes, yes— roturn. That is, I will— I will think of it.' He did not laugh at the thoughtof returning to the world. Laurence remembered the worda of bis daagbter : ' The world haa becomo dreadful to bim." 'Yon will come back to a aympathotic world. Your old worid of wits is broken up. You will appear in a different world altogether. I am truly fortunate in having been the means of bringing these things to your knowledge.' ' Young gentleman,' the Poet seized bis hand, ' I am gratefnl to yon. If you knew — if you could ever guess tbe half — of what I have suffered From the neglect— the unmerited neglect — of the World — yottwouldrealiaaaomething of what I feel. Yea — yea — there muat be a cbange. But go — go now — and let me see yon latcr on. I must be aloae — to think — to feel — to widerstand what has befallen me.' Was t i: 152 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S All fhis happened in the morning. In the evening Laurence, who had boen dining in tbe West, returned about ten. He looked in, as was bis wonk There were Higns of excite- nient and Agitation. 1 Oh ! Mr. Waller,' cried Caasie, ' only to think 1 Mr. Inda- gine ia a great man at last 1 We are so ptoud. Althea has brought us the article — such a beautifol article 1 We read ii all through. We sent Sempronius to buy a copy of tbe paper — here it is — bat we can't find tbe article in it.' 'No? Tben it must have been in another nnmber. Of course. Porhaps in next week's. Never mind. It is a grand thing for Mr. Indagine, is it not 1 — to find tbat be has become ' Felix eays that none of tbe fellows at the Poly ever heard of Mr. Indagine's poetry,' said Sempronius rrom his retreat. ' At the Poly I ' Cassie repeated scornfully. ' What do they think of at the Poly but gymnastics and lectures and things ? You don't go to the Poly for poetry. I have never soen Althea look so happy, Mr. Waller. You have made her as happy as her father. 'The Bank is honoured," aaid Mr. Cottle, 'by this public reooguition. Shakespeare, Marlowe, Maesinger, Fletcher, Vice- ?imuB Cottle, Clement Indagine 1 A goodly snccession indeedl My father would have been gratified by tbis public «Cognition.' CHAPTER XL I DO not suppose that anybody ever woke np on a fine snmmer morning with a greater sense of satiefaction, a warmer approval of eonscience, or a more balmy confidenee that things were going to hnppen exactiy as they were wanted thau Laurence after this cold-blooded deception of the aged bard. He would have danood and performed oapers and pirouettes had he known how : he wonld have sung songs of joy and gladness had he known any, bat no sacb songs are manuf&etured in these days : be woold wülingly have dressed himself in pnrjile eilk and gone upon liank Side witb a crown of roses on his head and a gold cup, or a tute, or some such trifle in his hand in order to show his gladness after the manner of th« aneients. But young men now do never display these outward signs of joy, Alas I His joy Was to be turaed into sorrow and his laughter into mourning. Übe reason of the joy was nothing more tban bis auccees by THE DOCTORS HAPPINESS 153 me&na of craft and subtlety. Renson and argumant would have failed with tlie diviue poet. Flattery succeeded. Thia, irideed, is the only form of deeoption which nover faila. When the foi in the fable — the only fable which is alwayB true at all ages and at all times— got that cheese from tha crow and waa taking it home with a smile of satisfaction, he was tuet by a monkey who aaaured him, with many bowa and smiles, that of all the crea- turea of the field, nono was ao triüy virtuoua, bo disinterested, aB the Herr Reineke. He was wool all through, said the monkey. He waa the only perfectly white Creatore. He was straight. Benevolence and integrity shone in hia eyes. He then entreated the foi, whoin he addressed indifferently as Your Grace, or Your Lordship, or Right Reverend Sir, to give him, the woret of ainners, aome short discourse lipon rehgion. He himaelf would hold the cheeae during the aermon. A moment later, he ad- ministered the moral from a lofty brauch, Vit am depom da uelui qui 1'uDOate. The reat of the story and how the monkey feil a victim to tha wolf and the wolf to the pig, who ata up the cheeae while the weaael was making up a story, mny be read in Phiedros. Flattery had succeeded. Althea, ignorant of the meana, waa pleased. Why, the poet nwiiIIiiwi ,1 it :l11, oven the grossest bits, with greediness, and wfaan it was finished, only longed for more. Now, he would come out of hia retirement — for which he waa already prepared by the deluaion of wide-epread fame — and go back to the world, whatevar that might mean. If he would only do that, only take Althea away with him, what mattered nny amount of delnsion? Let him even tempt onoe more the malignity of hia enemies. During his thirty yeara of sulks — -what a splendid spell of that enjoyable moodl — he muat have made many thousand lovely lincs. Hut Althea would also go into the world when her fitther returned to it. Althea waa pleased. Somo day he might have to nonfeas to herthedeception he had practised. If— when — no — if — aoertain termination of his vieit ahould really huppen, hs would have to make a clean breast. But not to the poet. He who had deceived himaelf at the outast might harmlefisly continue in an illuaion ao pleasing and ao healthful to the aoul. Nover wa3 man made more happy by a de vice so simple, This young man feit no real remorae for hia deoeption. but he waa certainly uneaay aa to the way in which Althea might take it. How Althea would take it. He atood at hia window and Jooked acrosa the river. Bank Side waa very noisy and bosy : hnndreda of men ran np and down the planka with baaketa on their backe : there muat have been aa immense order from I 154 THE BELL OF ST. PAVL'S Bumeone for broken glass : scrap iroti was certainly in great demand somewhere. But this young man saw and heard nothing. Like Althea, he wae fallen into a dream : he saw, eoinewhere in a bower of blies, a young man and a maiden : the young man wooed tho maiden and Ehe gave liini her lipa to kiss. Presently he awoke from l.liis blissful vision and finiahed his dreaaing. Then he went down ataira. No one was in the honse except Sempronius, whose holidays had just begun. Some boya go to Broadstairs or Brighton or Waltou-on-tbe-Naze for tbeir holidays ; Seinpronius went into his comer hesido tho window. But he enjoyed his holidays quite aa mach as any other boy, beeauae he read all day long — not booka from his grandfather's library — but borro we d books — Scott — Fielding— De fo e — Smollett — Dickens— everybody. CaBsio had gono to her photographer's studio; Flavia to St. Martin's; Lucius to his perch on the Higher Brauch ; Cornelia to her seat in the porch beeide the Body. Breakfaat was laid for Um — and SemproniuB was in his place, nose in book. 1 Well, boy,' said Lawrence. ? How arö yonr siaters this moming ? ' ' Caseie oried all night,' sali the boy, without taking his eyea off bis book. ' I heard her through the partition.' ' Why did Cassiecry?' ? Oh I • The boy shook his head impatiently — what were Cassie's woea toaboyin the middle of King Solomon'a Mines'? ' She cried beeauae she's quarrelled with Oliver, ' 1 You think that ? ' 'I know it's that. Flavia knows it too.' 1 You have reaaon for beheving ? ' ' Oh bother,' said the boy. ' I'tb aeen birn kiasing her a dozen times.' ' This fact, my young friend,' said Laurence, pouring out hia tea, ' taken singly, might aeem to favour your hypotbesis. The danger, however, of a general conclusion from one or two isolatod facts *— but the boy shook his Shoulders and put hia fingera to The rüde awakening took place after breakfaat when Laurence retired to the Bank for hia moming tobacco. There are always a few of the unemployed loimging about here in the moming exchanging ideas. The young swoll who had notliing to do waa populär amoug them beeauae he readily convoraed with them, made everybody free of his pouch and prored himaelf a ready lender of those small sums wnich it would be an eicess of duty to remeraber or return. The Doctor it was who rudely awakened him. He camo marching briakly along Bank Bide on his morning round, and ?eeing Laureuoe, atopped to greet him cheerily. The Dootor THE DOCTOR'S HAPPINESS rwas always a cbeerfiil man : all doctora in general practice are. eheerful ; in fact, cheerfulneas is the ßrst aubjeet in wbich a medical Btudent has to satiefy hia examiners. Ouly a apecialist b allowed to be sometimeB grumpy. ' Why,' he said, ' you are the very man I was thinking of at tili' moment.' ?I am glad to have been in vour thoughta.' ' Thia very moraing after breakfast I went to ray brother-in- law's etndy — a thing I haven't done for yeara. " Clement," I aaid, " I ahould like to carry the good news to that new friend of oura wbo haa brought bb so mucb happineaB." ' 1 Good news ? ' Laurence was thinking of the artiole and ita effect. ' I took in the paper myself, ycsterday moming.' 1 Yon did. Nothing ever made bim so bappy. But it ia even better news than that. In the evening— in the evening' — the Doctor'a voiee broke a littie. He sat down on tho bench and cleared hia throat. ' Twenty yoara ago ' — he atarted hia In- formation with a new paragraph, as people will when they are much. moved — ' I began a most tilhll lltililj Experiment. You know aoinething of it, already. I wanted, first of all, to iaolate aboyfrora themore miachievouainfrueuceeof the ago. Iwanted bim to grow np free from prejndicea, bo as to look at tnitb with clear and steadyeyea. I proposed that he ehould learn, for him- self, what we vainly try to teaoh — how to elevate his aoul. I thought that a boy taught to eearch for truth in all her forma would the aooneat arrive at the one doctrine which can ever advancß tho world — I mean tha sacrifice of aelf.' Laurence thought of the doctrine at which the aeeker aftor Truth had really arrived — the exaltation and worship of eelf; could the Doctor then be quite ignorant of hia pupil'a viewa ? 1 Well — my son — I have always called him my son — grew np and has become what you know and have seen. Am I right to be proud of auch a aon ? ' 'As a man of acience,' said laurenoe, gravely. ? To keep him long enough in Germany to finish bis atudiea Iran away with all the littie nioney I had left— not that I grudge it. Never waa money better Epcnt. But it ia tha fact. My brother-in-law, as you may Bupfiose, ia not rieh. In fact hia only property consiatB of thrce or four honses bequeathed him by_ a cousin, and we are not able to do more than live, with strict economy, Do I weary you with these de teils ? ' ' No, co, not in the least, I aaaure you,' said Laurence, won- dering what tbis might moan. ' Pray go on.' 1 Yon have taken sokindlyaninterest in Clement : we all like you so much. Well, I will go on. We are getting old, he and I — and there is Althea. Tbere is Altbea.' If the Doctor bad not boen gaziag into the middle of a half I 156 THE BELL OF ST. PAÜL'S luden bärge he might have seen tbe young man's cheeks flnsh auddenly — and it might hava cauaed even the least Buepicious man in the World to have suapioions. ' There ia Althea, 1 Laurence repeated, with an eflört. ' We think of her and of her future and we tremble. For, when we are gone what will become of her? We have livad ftltogethcr apart from the world — fooliahly, I now think — but at firat I had my work and Clement hat) what he thought auffioient reasons : therefore, the girl has no feiende: and aha will have very little money. What ia to become of her ? She is ignorant of the world and innocant. She might fall a prey to any deaigning person. Good Heavena ! What will become of her? The queation haa been before üb lately a great deal, and I oonfesB that it makea me very unoaay. After aixty anything may happen to a man. What £a to become of Althea when we Are gone ? ' ' Dootor,' eried Laurence, eagerly, ' let me ' ' One momcnt, my dear young friend— one moment. Last night, alter Althea had gone to bed, Oliver, who waa with us, opened hia mind.' ' Oliver 1 Oliver ? ' If hia oloek had been crimaon before, it now became white. ' Oliver opened bis mind ? ' ' Oliver told us that he haslong loved Althea — and asked onr permission to address her. That is my news. That ia why I am so rejoiced. Oliver and Althea. — my adopted boq and my sister's daughter. They have been brought up together. They know each other entirely. We oan tru6t her happinesa to Oliver with such eonfidenee as we should feel in no one eise. Her happinesa muat be considared firat. As for other things, there is a great future before him : aha will be proud of her husband. That ia a great point.' ' Bat there is Has Althea — has Miss Indagine — con- eented ? ' ' Oliver will apeak to her thia evaning. We agreed that nothing should be said to her by ourselvea, and we would not endeavour to influenae her. She will not know onr own hopeB : Oliver has promised not to put thia view of the matter before her. It ia left ontirely to her haart.' ' To her heart,' Laurence repeated, hia own a little lifted by the assurance. ' As for Oliver, he will have a wife who is one of a million. That he knows very well. I have for aome time hoped that ths influenae of love would be brought to bear upon his character. There is a point in the hiatory of every man when love is ueeded for the füll development of hia character. He may paas throtigh it without getting love, and without permanent lose, but for ruost men it is needed. I think that Oliver has reached this point. THE DOCTOJCS HAPPWESS 157 Love will reveal to him many aspects of humonity of whieh he ia ftn yet ignorant.' 'Tea,' said Lanreneo flhortly. ? Has Oliver spoken to you about the — the progreas he bas znade towards your ilocirines ? ' ' No : he is feeüng hie way. He ia working, Bearching, and meditating. Ee leads the simple life which beüts the true scientific spirit. I am content, so far," 'The business will he aettled, you say, thie evening.' ? Yea, Com« in at half-past nitie. Cooie in and rcjoice with na. You have brought so much light and happiness to the house that wo should like yon to be present at our new rejoicing. I haven't bored you with all Ulis gossip, have I ? You look worried. I ought to have noticed that before.' ' No — no. You have intere.ated me ? — he tried to sniüe — 1 much more than you can giiüsa . I am most intereated. I will be with you this evening.' The Doctor noddcd and laughed and atrode away to See hin patients. This was the rede awnkening. This was how thinga were going to happen just as he desired. This was the end of the little atory which he had reaolved to watch. Now, indeed, he mighl pack 11p hifi thinge and go bome. But tho story was not yet finished. CHAPTBR XIL althba's Engagement. One who goes a-wooing ahould dance as he walke, and should laugh when he Bpeaks : he ahonld have the light of love in bis eyaa, and the fluah of yearning on bis obeek. He ahoiüd also ahow the certainty of conqueat in bis carriage, whiob ahould be valiant and confident, yet not arrogant. To come creeping, with downeaat eyea, a oloudy brow, and an anxioua pale face, ia a poor way to open up a subjeet ho delightful and ao fall of interest Yet it was the way adopted by Oliver. He had aeked Althea to meet him in her Eather'a atudy at niue tbat evening. She certainly knew what he proposed to say ; that falsa Start made on Bank aide warned her. Some girla go to Buch an interview with beating hearts and burning cheeka : Althea went quietly and gravely, with no outward aign of emotion whatever. Outside, in the oppoaite roorn, the two old men Bat at their chess table, pretending to play; but one expoaed biB Queen and the other forgot to take advantage of it, One left a mate eaay to ifio THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S in«, ilo you, Oliver 1 Yet there is 110 softnesB in your eycs or in your voice, No — ray dear Oliver — we have beenbrother and Bister together a good many yeara : we will continue brother and eister, if you please.' ' Tnia comee from living alone. Softened haart ! Bubbish ! Love, in truth, is the most simple thing in the world. Two fersone are attracted towarda eooh othor, by the laws of Nature. f the girl ig beautiful, as you are, ehe attracts the man readily. They call thia the Power of Beauty, Very good, I am at- tracted to you by the laws of Nature^ — which I do not pretend to reäiet. If you are pieased with rae, you will accept rne. But we need not talk any nonsense about softening of hcarta. Accept me, AJtbea. You have known rae all your life. Ton have not to find out what kind of man I am : you must know beforehand that I shall do my beat to make you happy.' ' Indeed, Oliver, I do not know that, at aÜ.' * ¥ou can't espect to have an angel made on purpose for you. Better to know beforehand the warst that can be said about a man than find out afterwarda.' ' What do you think, now — to be practica! — will make me happy 1 r aat down and laughed. He had made the first plnnge ana was more sure of himselt He was more at ease sitting, because Althea contiuued to stand, and ahe was taller than him- seifand dominated him. 'If yon talk sentimental rubbish,' he repliod, 'you would ba happy with love and the union of two hearta and the mingling of aoüla and the extravagant worahip of a lover. We are not in the Elizabeth an age, however. If you talk good honest aense, you want, to make you oompletely happy, flrst ' — he looked up with a completo return to cheerfulnesB— ' material comfort. Every vornan likes to be warm and well clothed and to have a reasonable certainty about the daily broad and jam. You ah all have that, asaured. Nest, you want a complete chnnge in your life. You are at laßt — I think the Coming of thia AuBtralian Ichap haa done it — aick and tired of thia hole of a place. You want society, art, travel, and the freshness of naw thoughtB. Well— I will give you that complete nhange. Confeas, now, tais is what you want to make you happy.' ' Well, Ohver,' ahe eaid, ' you are partly right. Three weeks ago I should have told you that I deaired no ohange. Now, all is altered. It is true. I do most vehemently deaire to go away with my iather, somewhere— I know not where — any- where, so that we may aee the world and live among oultivated B ' people. Thia place aeems to be choking : leiigth, my father is roused from hia apathy, Before many daya, I tut) sure, he will be as eager os I can wish to get back ALTHEA'S ENGAGEMENT to the world. You aay I want change. Why, I am wyaelf ohanged— I know not how. Even my old power of dreaming has left me : you used to laugh at my visions : they do not come to me any longer : my miiid ie füll of new thoughts— I am grown impatient. ¥es,' ahe murmured, ' I want change.' '"Why . . . there . . . thera . . .' aaid Oliver eagerly, ' half the battle is won. Yon want change — I will give it to you.' 'I think not, Oliver. You liave known me all my life, aa you say, but you have never siven me anything : not a thought 01 a hope— and you never will.' ' Yea — yeH — I will give you all — all that you deaire.' ? No. You are quito mistaken, Oliver,' ehe repeated, ' Quito mistaken ; you do not love me at all. Two pcople brought iip togather, as we have been, cannot fall in love : I am no mystery to you : nor you to me. We know eaeh other too well, my poor boy.' ' If you mean that I a what yon are, of courae I you so well that I have no need to imagine gracea and virtuea, I have aeen them and proved them in you.' ' Beally, Oliver ? Then you have ooncealed yonr admiration very carefully," ' Would you have had me apeak before the time ? ' '?Whattime?' ' There ia a time for e verythin j*. Now, Althea, give me five minutes only — I have my foot on the ladder : I have obtained the loweat post on that ladder of fortune and l'ame. I have no income yet, to apeak of. But that will eome. A brief ocoupa- tion of my preaent poat will lead to somathing better. I am a Fellow of the Boyal Society — the youngest Fellow. The future ia clear before me. So niuch tbr myaolf. Now for you. My father, as I am permitted to call him, has epent upon my educa- tion the whole of the fortune which was left to him. He has now nothing but the income which he makea by inoessant toll among tbese people for whom he has thrown awav hie life. Your father haa hia alender income, it ia trua, and it will be 1 You mean,' ahe interrnpted, ' that it would he a gooö* tliing for me if I were to niarry you. It ia a kind of bargain that yoa propoae.' ' Hear me out. I should get a wife, for my part— the woman I love— beautiful and attractive — who would advance me aocially. A man like myBelf, without any backing up of rela- tions, wants such a wife. Why, of eonrse, the chief advantage would be on my aide. I wilhngly own it. No man, Althea, can offer in return for yourself anything in the leaat its equiva- lent ' — he marred tliis ratber pretty apeech by a coldneaa which ans look the Ufa and meaning out of it. 'Yot on the wbole you would not lose by the . . . the arrangeinent. Without non- aenee about softening of hearts, think of it in thia way, Althea." She ahook her bead. ' We waste the tinie,' she said ; * it ie perfectly impossible that I oould ever love you.' ' Tou think so because your head is füll of poetio rubbish. Wait a little. When we are engaged your thoughts will begin to dwell aboitt me, and I dare say you will diacover all kinds of eiftB and graces in your lover that you would pass over in your brother. For instance, you would lue your husband to be a diatinguiahed man. Very well, I think I may promiae you that he shii.ll be distingnished. I will maks ecienpo a ladder by whioh to climb to any heighta you like.' ' I would certainly like my husband to be diatinguiahed, ' Althea replied; 'and yet . . . No, Oliver. Let there be no more aaid. I do not love you. and you do not love me. What ia the use of going on ? That is the last word.' Oliver made no reply. For a fcw minutea there wasailence. Then he played hie Inet card, speiiking slowly and distinctly. It was the curd ha had promised not to play. ' There is one word in ovo. It may influenae yon. In the next room are two old inen who love you, Althea — aa much aa I do. At this moment they are nioat aniiously waiting to hear the result of tlüs talk.' ? Where ? Do they know 1 ' She ohanged colour. ' You have told them ? ' 'I oould not attempt to win you, Althea,' he replied with dignity, ' until I had firat aaked their consent.' He said this without the appearance of bragging over this virtuous conduct. ' They not only know what I am saying to yon, but they have given their consent, and that moat readily and heartily. Althea '—ho waa now apeoking with greoter animatiou and the appearance of ainoerity — ' I deelare to you — I am eure you will believe this — there is nothing in the world whioh would pleaee and rejoiee them more. They are growing old ; they cannot bear to think that the tüne may come— and that soon — when they muat leave you alone — friendleaa — and alenderly provided for. In me they see a protector, rather than a lover. Think of these old people, Althea.' The tears oame into her eyes. ' Yea,' she replied, ' I am alwaya thinking of them.' ' That yon Bhould be lefl alone— in auch a place— with no other resources than the precarious rent of a few houaes in this poor quarter — no wonder they tremlile. At t.Tiin very moment, Althea, I repeat, they are waiting anxiously to know your ans wer.' Ohl what answer can I give? What Bhould I giv«? ALTHEA'S ENGAGEMENT ;t underetand. It ia imposaible — it ifl impossible d never marry you — becanae, we could never love eaeh ' You may ohange — I am aure yon will change — when we are ' No — no — it ia impossille. I will teil them so.' ' And if you did not ohange wo could break the engagement. Can you believe that I would hold you to an Engagement if yon could not love me ? ' ' Well, but, Oliver, girla don't get engaged only in Order h> break it off. 1 ' No. On the other hiind, very fow girla have acen their future huahaud half a dozen timea before they become engaged to him. Tlie love Cornea after — if it comes at alL' 1 No . . . no . . . it ia impoBaible.' ' T ln'nTi of my falber, Althea. Make him happy in thinking that we are engaged. He believes in me, you know. He thinka I am going to be the groatoet miD of science that ever lived — and he thinka that I ahall make you happy. For bis aake — for your öwn father'a aake, Althea— let ua pretend to be engaged until tho love that followa will bind ua surely.' ' Pretend to be engaged ? ' ' Why not ? There are only our two aelvea — and theaö two old men — we have no frienda. Such a thing might hurt another girl, but it can do no härm to yon. No one at all, outaide, phn.11 know it. If you find, afterwarda, that it carmot come to anything, we can break it oft But to make them happy, let ua pretend.' 'Ia it poasible?' the girl aaked. 'You have actually gone through all thia pietence of love only to make your father happy ? ' ' If you like to tbink so ' ' It 13 good of you, Oliver. It was a kind thought. I have never known you do a Mnder thing. But no — it ia impoBsible even to pretend.' ' Only at tirst, to make them happy.' ' To make them happy I would do anything. But thia is ' I will release you whanever you please — nay — I will not conaider you as bound to me by any other than a conditiomil promise. We will teil them that it is conditional. You shall be engaged, Althea, with the underatanding that you can atep out of it at any moment.' In the other room, the cbeea-board waB now pnahed »aide. The Doctor and the Poet, joined now by Laurenoe, waited in «ilence for the decision. A hundrad timea during the day had THE BELL OF ST. PA UL'S the young man beert tempted to go to (he Doctor and pm. ' Thia adopted aon of youra, whom you believe to be working hia way to (he doctrine of Belf-sacrtfiae, ia a oold-blooded worahipper of eelf, the centre of the universe; he ia utterly »capa 1 - 1 * of aaorifico ; be has deceived and thrown ovor the girl whom be once pretended to love ; he has no illusions ; he is aa incapable of honest love aa of self-sacrifice. He ia not worthy to be even uiider the aarne roof as Althea. Yet you rejoice at tbe posai- büity of his marrying her. fcjhould tbey marry, oertain misery awaita her.' Thua and thua did he frame a apeeeh whicb he ruight inalte to the Doctor or to Althea's father. Yet he eould not aay it. He bad no right to interfere. He had learned by accident what Cassie woukl refuse to confeaa openly. He had learned byanutber accident the man's realviews. Yet he eould not interfere. They waited, therefore, aitting in the twiligbt. They waited a whole hour while Oliver, pleading hia cause, broke that promise of aeorecy as to their winhea. Laurence stood at the window silent, his face, could they have seen it in the twiligbt, sad and anxioua. Then the old inen began to talk. ' It will make a great differenee to na,' said her uncle ; ' WS ahall no longer be first in her thoughts.' ' The houae will be intolerable if she has to leave ns,' said her father ; ' yet we cannot keep her here after ehe ia married.' 1 Clement, we must not begin to think of ouraelves. The girl'a happineae comes first. And the boy, if I know him, will make her happy.' Laurence at the window groaned. When the Bell of St. Faul's Struck ten, the door was opened and Älthea appeared followed by Oliver. ' Congratulate me,' said the lover. ? Althea is engaged Althea ran and feil npon her fatber'a neck. ' If it pleases you, dear : if it will make you happy : if it ia what you deaire ' ' My chüd, what oan we deaire bnt yonr own happiness ? ' Laurence on hearing the fatal announcement inetantly stepped quickly and quietly out of the room. ' And we are cot really engaged,' Althea eipSained. ' It is only— if it will make you nappier — a conditional promise.' ' A proiniae ' aaid Oliver, ' a promiaa — with conditions." ' If I find that I can love him — after a time — we are not in love hiiu- at any time- to-day or to-n We are not engaged unless My dear father, are you «atiafied ? ' With auch conditions and loopholea and hedging round of happiness, ought not the feindest father to bo satisiitd ? It was, however, a pity — s great pity — that Laurence had not etayed another m i nute in the room. 'And where,' asked the Doctor after taking hia share of the kiasing, ' where is Mr. Waller? He was here only five minutea ?go.' ' He is no longer here,' said Oliver softly. ' When he heard my words he ran away, Doubtlesa he th.uu.ght he would not intrude on a family oecasion su eompletely private aa this.' CHÄPTER XIIL OOOD-BVE, SWEtlllZABI, When Laurence heard those worda and aaw the triumphant face of the aucceasful wooer he fled. He ran away. We are so far still ohildren of natnre that wo cannot always auddenly foree ourselves to preserve outward calmness, whatever happens. Still it would have been better had he waited. Then he would have heard the modifieations of that bo&atful announc erneut. But he Üed. He dkl not dare to look at Althea. He broke away — evatit—erupit — he vanished. This, then, was the end: a rüde awakening: for this, he had gone on day after day, every day, sometimes all day long, think- ing no danger, lulled and lapped in aeourity, enjoying the sweet coinpanionship of thie girl. To he sure, not one word of lova had heen eschanged : yet he had fallen into a dreamy aafety. — Why not ? This girl had no lovera : she knew no other young man, except Oliver, and as regarda that young man, Laurence feit dp i'ealousy: why ahould he? Oliver, who Beidom came to the louse, was a kind of brother. Boaidea, he knew very well — any man would find thie out for himself — that the girl regarded hiin with friendly eyea if not with the favour whieh he deaired. There was no hurry. Even to be engaged to her would bring hi'm little more than the privilege whieh he alreudy enjoyed, of gazing upon her, worahipping her, and speaking freely and openly with her about every othet subjeet, Nay, until thia day he knew not the depth and devoutneas of hia worahip. When he underatood this, he learned also that the diacovery came too late. Hia eastle waa of Spanish BLrchiteoture — or it waa a Castle of cards— and at a touch it feil, tombling about bis ears. There- fore he üed. He did not, at first, go tat. "Wlien the residente of Bank Side feel happy and the weather ia fine and the eveningB light, tbey stand Wide the river and look acrosa and up or down. When tbey are cmshed tbey carry their wounded apirita to the same spot and aeek syinpathy of ailver-footed Thameais, sweet Thameis, running aoftly, great Father of the British Flooda. What did Caaaie in her great trouble? She crept out alone at night and wept over the river thinking that no oue would find her there. 'Twas a leading ca.se. Laurence did the aarne. That ia, he did not weep, but lie leaned over the wall and resigned hia bouI to bitteraess. Althea waa lost — ho had throwu away byhia own folly — by hia procraatinatiou — auch a chanoe aa never oame to any man before. Ey hia own miserable folly, he thonght, Althea was lost to bim . The evening ahould have been block and thunderous : it waa a fine evomiiy nfit-r n. Hj.l.iulid day : the air waa bahny : no night, but a soft twilight, hangmg over the city which deepened the sliadows and softened the outlines and filled all happy mortala with a aenae of repoae. Thare is thia atrange quality about Natura that when her mood fita our own we take it aa eympathetic and kiudly intcntioried in her : and when her mood ia not orirs, we uro not irritated therofor, but we take no notica at all of her. That she rejoioes with ua fills our liearts with gladness: that ehe will not weep with ua offenda Althea was engaged. Thercfore, Lnurencehadno perception or eenae of beauty in the river ander the soft twilight. She waa engaged to the man who had no illusiona. Love? How oould Buch a man love such a woiuan ? Oh ! moat unhappy girl— what would be her fate with Oliver ?— and oh I rnoBt unhappy lover I what hia own without Althea ? The water lapped the breezea softly and glowed ia the evening light, but Lawrence heeded it not. There are many men whom we always, and inatinctively, dialike from the very first : we do not invite them to enter our house : we do not willingly Bit down to break bread with them ; the dislike is a dull and stnouldering fire : these uien do not actually give us pain by their presence or their exiatence until Bomething happciia which kindlea the 6mouldering embers into flames. Then, dull dislike narea out into burning hate. Just so this young man'a dislike of Ms fortimate rival waB now ohanged into a most active and lively hatred. When one ia in vory great trouble and miaery: when one ia eick and kuows not what may be Coming next: when one is muoh haraaaed by work the mind assumes a curious habit of aeeing and dwelling upon trifles. For instance, Laurence presently diseovered that be had turned his back upon the river and waa Buw gazing across the road. Thxough the opeu window he eaw Chu GOOD-EYE, SWEETHEÄRT iS* i assembled. Cornelia, he observed, Bat with her hands in her lap, ns if she was still sitting in her ehair at Üie Church door — it is oomplained of all ecclesiastics that they can- . shake their calling out of their looks, their garb, and thc-ir manners. This reverend lady sat every evening thus bolt up- right, without book or werk, &a ehe sat all day. An austere, if digniried, manner of lifo. Her brother sat opposite her, reading the evening paper. It waBtheCrfoiawhiehhegeneraUybrougliO home with him and he read it riglit through, thonghtfully,-fta mueh interested in one country as in another and in one subject as another. This cathulic apirit he inherited frora bis father,for the Principal of an Aeademy should know everything. In one window Flavia trimmed a hat, holdingit up to the light, tuming it round. She was not clever at work and would fain have aought assistance of Casaie, whose genius lay in nrillinery. Bat CaBsie Bat in the other window silenl, and, and heavy-eyed. While he gazed upon the group Cassie turned her head and eaw him. Then she rose and went out to him, carrying her hat by the Btrings. 1 What is the matter, Mr. Waller ? ' ehe asked. ' What should be the matter, Cass ? ' he rephed Clearing his thron. t with a show of cheerfulness. * Something^ is wrong. I saw it from the window. "What is it 1 I hear it m your voice. Ia it — is it — anything to do with Althea?' n ont here to breathe the night air. It is a fino night, is it not ? I like the river best when the tide is nearly at ita fulL Then the water is freshest and the wind seems to come straight up from the Oerman Ocean, doesn't it? ' ? Mr. Waller.' ' Oh, yon asked me if anything had happened. Well, nothing that we could not expect — I forgot, you see, that I am a stranger and they have been togethcr from childhood and the two old men want it so very mnch. Bat it ia nothing to nie. How should it be ? I have only been here six weeks or so. Pity I did not suspect it— but how Bhould I ? ' ' What is it, then ? ? ' It doesn't matter to you either, since that busineas is all over with you. You have left off lomenting the aeoundrel who * ' Mr. Waller.' ?And now he has told the same tale to the girl whom ' ' To Althea ? ' ' Of courBe. And they are engaged. That is what I have just learned.' 1 Althea 1 Ohl I never thought— I could not tbink that Althea — of all women in the world— Althea ' i68 THE BELL OF ST. FAVUS 'Don't blame her — Caspie, ofaild — don'b blnine her,' snid Laurence, hoarsely. 'I cannot bear that the leaat blame ' ' I am not blaming her at all. Oh 1 Mr. Waller, I Marne myself. For ehe eame and imp lored me to teil if there was any- thing — anything at all— between Oliver and me— ehe wanted to know why I was so unhappy. Jt was all her love and kindnees. And I declared that thera was nothing and never had been any- thing. I told her that falaehood — agam and again.' ' Poor chüd,' said Laurence, I Oh I I am a wretch. If I had only told her the trnth th ia would never have happened. Bat I was aahamed, And now I have made you miserable too.' ' Ton have made Älthea miserable, Cassie. Nover mind me. She will be miserable for lifo,' ' How can ehe be unhappy if ehe loves him and if he loves her?' ? But she cannot love him. It is impoaaible.' ' You do not know him, Mr. Waller,' sajd the girl. ' Ton think of him hardly becsuae he Las— made a mislake — about ms — he thought he loved me, you aee, and he did not. But of oourse he loves Älthea — any man would— and he ifi ao clever and so bright that any girl would easily be led on to love him, eepecially if she were led on aa lie led me on." ' I think 1 know him even better than you, and I aastire you, Cassle, he is not a man to be led away by any fanciea.' Here, it will be observed, Laurence made the not unnatural mistake of taking a man at bia own profeaaiona. Oliver declared that love was an illoeion. Did it follow that he was never to fall into that sweet illusion? ' He does not love Älthea and he never loved you. He loves himself— his own wretched seif.' ' Well— bnt you did love her. And oh 1 Mr. Waller, why did you not teil her so ? ' I I thought ehe knew it.' I How could she know it for certain nnleaa you teil her ? Why, think, Mr. Waller. If a girl make such a mistake as that, how wretched she may be— iook at me. Besides, Älthea never talked or thought of such things. She isn't like other giils who are alwaya talking about love. Oh 1 how could you go on so long and never speak a word 1 ' I I have been b. fool, Caaaie. And I have loat her — and yet — I cannot underatand ' ' Perhaps her father ' 'Yea — yea — her father and tha Doctor wiahed it. That ia the only explanation, But doea that explain why he ahould ' he paused. ' Unleas perhaps he was found out.' " What is there to find out ? ' ' There is a Utile fact whiob the Doctor and Mr. Indagine T 169 ' GOOD-BYE, SWEETHEART have kept to themselvea. But I kuow it. I think it erplaina our friend's audden change — well, Caaaie, it is no longar any Concern of mint. I musl tiy and forget her. The story is finisheil, I auppoae — I muBt go away home again. Perhapa, after a bit, I sholl forget. The story ia finished. What a pity 1 What an endingl Now if I were to write that story I would end it so differently.' ' How would you end it ? ' 1 1 would turn Althea'a heart to the man who iloes love her. And os for you, Caas, I would haj-den your heart to the man who haa deceived you, and I would make you gay and light-hearted ouce more-— and bring along a prinoe for you.' ' Oh,' she munnured. ' That oan never he. But oh, Mr. Waller, I am bo sorry for you — oh ! bo very very aorry. You brought ua all auch buppineas, and now it ia all gone, and you are only made miserable. Oh, I am sorry you ever came here.' Laureuce laid his band upon the ahapely head — it is the action of a brother — and eighed. ' Don't cry, dear girl,' he saiii, after a while. ' Don't cry, Caae. It ia all over and done wlth. But we are always Monds, whatever happens. You have loat— I have lost — we have both lost. We conjugate the past tense of the verb to loae. We are all the more friends over our common lose.' Bhe gave him her hand, without more words, and left him. He atayed on the Bank long after the lighta in the houae were put out and the reaiilcnts of um Aeo.du.my had gone to bod ; after the traina had ceased to run in and out of Cannon Street ; tili the ailence of night had fallan upon the great City and its river. The silenee falls about one o'clock and it ceaaes — London Bilenoe being like the Summer of Labrador — exactly an hour later, at two of the clock, when t be market carts begin to mmble through the street. Finally, in great dejeetion and with the most bitter atlf-reproa.cn es, he went up to hia own room and ao It is an aggravation of miaery that one must always undress, go to bed, gel up and dresB again, whatever the condition of mind. For a woman it is woras than for a man. Fancy a poor forlorn maiden, whose lover has left her, having to ehooae her fi-ock and her ribbona, just aa if ahe waa going once more to meet him, to walk among the dewy meadowa, to gather the wild rose, and to hear the bhthe aong of the lark, her hand in hia — Poor child I Bhe is left forlorn : and ehe haa got to do her hair prettily just the Barne. Laurence went to bed and instantly feil fast aaleep. But he awoke with the weight and auffocation of a horrid nightmare which Bat upon his ehest and choked bim. It took the form of Althea- — to t.hmlr that Althea, ao lliir, ao calm, so aweet, ahould p • n THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S beoome a nightmare. It was in this way. Ho flaw himself jnrt aa usuftl rowing with Althea, Walking with her, sitting beaids her, talking to her fathor while she Bat liatening or playing to them. Always Althea met bis gaze of overpowering love with the same calm unconaciousnesa, as if there were no auch thing at all aa love, as if ehe had never heard of love. And yet when Bho got out of the boat. or when their walk was finiahed, or while they atill Bat talking, Oliver ca.mo in and Althea suffered him to Bland on tiptoe in Order to kies her. This kiss was the night- mare : and it contimied after he awoke : it becarne a thought so fall of torture that he could no longer he in bed. He pulled back the enrtains. It was half-past four : the fltrn was already iising — but he had no eye for tbe glory ofthat phciKimuniiii ; ln-wirles. Ciiminu Streut Raihviiy liridjje apoila the annriae für Bank Side. He threw open the window and breathed the sweat morning air : the rivar ran bright and sparkling under the blua aky, criapoä by the freah breeze : the spirea and ateeplea rose clearly outlined : the Cathedral ahowed every column and every window aharply deflned. On the Bank there lounged alowly, beeauae he had no bed and was himgry and on the prowl for what he conld pick np, an unclean bird of night, who saw with envy all thoae bargea lying unguarded, aotnally waiting to be atolen, and remembered with regret that there was not a Single fence in the whole of London where he could place a bärge if he should fake it. So ha crept on his way. Lawrence watched him with interest. The sight of the poor wretoh diverted his thoughts. Wfeea he had disappcared they returned to the old sabject. He could not go on as if nothing had happened. What should he do, then ? In some caaes there is only one thing to do— namely, to rnn away. I am alwaya aurpriaed that more people do not rtin away, There are lots of retreats aud refugea for runawaya — with nice casual wards in case they have got through their tnoney. And it ia a remedy so truly efhcacious. You can go right awny, where the wicked cease from troubling : where the iroportunate creditor cannot find you : where the wowan you loved and have lost cannot torment you with the sight of her happy face — not that you would wiah to see it miserable ; where you will read no more naaty -onea on your laat failure ; where the weary tako off their boota and are at rest — who would not wiah for such a place of repoae, auch a haven of refugo? Borna men, however, stay on : they meanly stick to their business i they meet the aaBaulta of the wicked with fiata and sticks : they compaas revenge : in love uiatters they wait — they actually wait — until by the help of time, and the pricks and staba of other worriea. they can get Ovar it. It ia true they alwaya do wayl r it. But how much bötter to have COOD-BYE, SU'i Laurence rosolved to run away. ? The atory ia told,' he said. , who thonght to play the principal part, am out of it alto- gether. I can go, now. I will put the river and a great many 1 Althea and myself. I will even ' — he aighed heavily — ' I will put the ocean hetween uu. I will go away thia very morning.' You cannot go away anywhere at half-past four in the morn- ing, especially from Bank Side, where there are no caba. The love-aick young man waa therefore couBtrained to go to bed again. Such ia the flatneaa of thingB. The most dramatio incidents in lifo have to be intcrruptßd by the amall neceasities of packing, getting the luggage out of the house, eating, paying billa, and eeeing that you have got amall change for the journey. Laurence, however, Hb mind once made up, wen t back to bed and feil inatantly asleep and had no more nightmarea. In the evening, when tha varioua members of the family retumed, they received the followiiig rspoit froia Semproniua. The boy depoaed that he waa rendin^ wben Mr. Waller came downstaira about half-past nine. He was looking gnimpy ; but he aaid nothing : he rang the bell to* bm&CMt '.nd walked to the window, where he stood looking out with his hands in bis pocketa. He was eridently yexy grumpy. When breakiaat cama he poured out a cup of toa, broke off the top of an egg, looked at it and pnshed it away. ' The Selected at teo a Shilling, too,' aaid Flavia. ' Shameful ! ' ' He took aome bread and butter, drank bis tea, and fmished breakfast. ? Then,' the boy continued, ' ha turned ronnd to me and he said " Boy," aayB he, with his usua! cheek, "you may teil yoar father I've had a buaineaa letter and I've got to leave unei- pectedly. No, 1*11 write that — " So he went upataira and came down preaently with a letter whiefr he put on tho inantel-shelf. There it ia.' The letter was certainly there in confirmation of thia atatement. 'Then he asked me if I would mind going as .3 Blackfrinrs Station to get a Hansom Cab for him — which I did. He bad got on hia hat and hia boota when I came back with the cab, and he'd packed up hia portmanteau and got it downataira. Well, he didn't laugb or make aoy joke or any. tliing : but he pulled out hia purae and he gave ms a aovereign — a whole aovereign I — Here it ia.' No doubt of it; there waa tho aovereign in avidence. 'And he aaid " Good-bye, boy, give the letter to your father," and with that he got into the cab and drove away.' ' Didn't he leave any message for Casaie and me ? ' aeked Flavia. 1 No, he didn't.' 'Nor any for Althea ' i 7 a THE BELL OF ST. PA VL'S shillii friend just t. I Ho — not any measage for anybody. Bat he gave me a, whole sovereign.' 'Then,' said Flavia, with more than her uaual aagacity, ' Bomethiug must have happened.' The letter being opened proved the truth of the boy'a State- ment. Mr. Waller was actually gone in a manner as uneipocttd and as startling as he had coine. ' Dear Mr. Cottle/ he aaid. I I have to apologise for leaving you so hurriedly. An uncx- peeted piece of newa haa obliged me to go away at onoe. I ahall have to leave London and ahall not be able to rctum for any Btay with you before I go home to Sydney. But I hope to wieh you farewell. ' Meanwhile I thank you all most aincerely for your great kindnoBB to me, a coniplete atraiiger : I have cornpleted the buai- neas which brought me to Bank Side : I can make no excuse for Btaying any longer. My stay haa been one of very great pleasure throughout. Pray thonk your eiater and your daughtera for all they have Jone for me. The incloaed will, I hopc-, xclieve me of my peouniary liabilities to you. ' Very ainosrely youra, 1 LÄuRENOE WaLLEK.' Lucius opened the cheque. ' He has paid for five weeks in advance,' he aaid. ' But he has gone 1 Children, it is pleaeant to reeeivo a cheque for üve weeka in advance, But we would rather have him back again.' ' Oh,' Fla, via sighed, ' he ia gone. But the cheque will come in handy. He is gone. Well, it ia something to remember. For once in our Uvea we have kuown a man who isn't alwaya hard up. 1 Semproniua feit the Bovereign in his pocket. There are possible consolations, even for the departure of a lodger and a friend. A whole aovereign 1 But Cassie, who alone knew the Beeret of his departure, hung her head. ' My dears,' aaid Lucius, with troubled voiee. ' The house aeems empty without bim. How shall we make up foi bis loas ? He has gone. Mr. Waller has left us, We repeat the Worda but we cannot understand. them. We know thiit he ia gone, but we are not yet sura of it. We are thua Btrildngly reminded of the mutability of all earthly things. They are ßeeting : in faet they fleet and — and— mutable— in the most nnexpected manner. We might have known that we could not and he would not keep üb, always. Five and tliirty i week in addition waa too good to last : and such a friend too great fortune for us : yet that he should go so soon, just aa we had learned to trust auid to esteem him I ' Bu dri And just,' said Fla via, ' as he was beginning to ahow an interest in Aunt Claudia.' ' I am thankfal,' said ihn other aunt, ' to think that he has seen the Church, I showed him the oarvinga and the Body.' ' He enlivened ns,' said Lucius. ' "We laughed while he was here. Why, I think we hnd fargotten how to laugh. Let ua now remember that eheerfulnesB is a duty : it is peculiar to mau — and to the hytena — to laugh. Mirthful moments give relief to the brain : it is good to be merry. And he toid üb atories. Iq his Company, cbildren, we have travelled. "We have wandered with him over the plains of Australia : we have saüed acrosfl the Indian Ocean: we have ate&med, always with him, through the Suez Canal.' ' And now,' eaid Flavia, ' he Las left üb more diamal than we were before he oame.' 'I dreamed,' aaid Cornelia, gloomily, 'a week ago, that the house was hang with black. A eure sign that some one would be taken.' ' Well, Aunt,' said Flavia, aharply, 'he ien't dead that we know of. And now you come to think about it — there was no letter for Viim this morning — where did he get the uewa which called him away ? It hadn't come last night or he would have tclil us. How was he called away ? No one came für him. There was no letter. It isn't like him to do thinga aecretly. Something may have driven bim away. It couldo't be auy one in this honae. Could it be Felii? Idon't think BO. What has happened, I wonder ? ' ' We do not know,' said her father. ' It is idle to seek. I repeat that we ourselves,' he looked at Coaaie — ' eliould take esample of a cheermlneaa which ' 'Here is AUbea,' aaid Flavia. ' Althea, ohl he's gone. Mr. Waller gone.' ' Gone ? Mr. Waller gone 1 Oh t why haa he gone ? ' Cessio looked up sharply. There was not the least sign of coQsciousnesB in Althea's face. If she know, if ahe auspected, she must be the greatest actress that ever lived — to preserve a look of auch complete and blank unconsciousoess. 'We don't know,' Flavia replied. 'Andweoannot nnder- stand. He is gone. That's all. 1, ' Gone without Coming to see üb ? Why, my father is eipect- ing him this evening. Oh I but he will retnrn.' ' FerhapB, he aays, to bid ns good-bye. That'a all.' He has gone,' aaid Lucius. ' He hu left a noble eheque. But I would rather he had stayed.' ' He haa gone,' aaid Casaie, feebly. ' Something must have driven him away.' 174 THE BELL OF ST. PAULS 1 He gave me a sovereign,' said Sempronius. * He wouldn't bave done that if he was Coming back again.' * My father has got a poem to read to liim,' said Althea. • Oh ! who will take Mr. Waller* s place at home ? Why did he go ? ' ' We do not know at all,' Flavia repeated. * No letters came for him this morning and no messengers called. Yet he says that he has received news which oblige him to go away.' 'There may have been something in the morning paper, then,' said Althea. * Something about his father, who iß a great man ont in Australia.' ' We never asked him abont his father/ said Flavia« ' His father is the Prime Minister of New South Wales» His name is Sir David Waller. He told Oliver so.' * Indeed ? ' Lucius looked up with revived interest. ' This is interesting. The son of Sir David — Sir — David — Waller. Dear me I This is most gratifying. Children, we have enter - tained the son of a nobleman. I thought — I always did think —that there was in his manner and appearance a something which only noble blood oonfers.' * Well,' Althea laughed. * I do not think there was much noble blood in Mr. Waller' 8 desoent.' ' Children,' Lucius continued. * This is a great honour for ns. Since the days when the nobility and aristocracy came here to witness the Performance of Shakespeare's plays, the Bank has been deserted by the Great. ßeally — it is a memorable occasion in the Chronicles of the time-hallowed quarter. And in this house ! In the Academy ! ' At this point Cornelia suddenly jumped clean out of her chair as if some one had stuck a pln in her. One feels a kind of shame in recording so undigmfied a thing of the lady, but she did it, with a little cry. * Sister ! ' said Lucius, in amazement. Cornelia sat down again. * I know now,' she cried breath- lessly. * I know why I recognised the voice directly I heard it. The voice and the eyes. Brother, are we blind ? They are the eyes and the voice of my cousin Lucy.' * Lucy, my dear Sister ? But she went away long ago. She left Mr. Norbery and got married. It is thirty years ago. And this young man is the son of Sir David Waller, Sir — David — Waller — Prime Minister — actually — Prime Minister— of the Colon v of New South Wales. Our cousin Lucy, if she lives still, mußt be in— ahem ! — humble circumstances. We were always — up to a certain point — kind to Lucy and her sister, but they were, remember, Cornelia, in a humble position, though our oousins.' ' Until Lucy beoame a snake in the grass,' said Cornelia. 1 But for her, Mr. Norbery would, I believe • GOOD-BYE, SWEETHEART 175 Her brother waved hie hand. ? Unlil that tiine, then,' he ?aid with dignity, • we were kind to Lucy and ehe was grateftil. On Sunday ehe was alwaya welcome to tea. We still wish her well in hei present humble position, and in case of need we would again estend our protection. Eut, Cornelia • ' He'a got Lucy'a voice and he'a got Lucy'a eye«. Stuff and rubbish about Sir David Waller and noblemen and Prima iaters I Lncy'e voice and Luoy'a eyeB I ' CHAPTER XIV. * TIMB OP TUMPTATION. Mr. Joseph Mayes sat in hia room at the back of hi« offioe. He waa resting aftor the day'a work. He had that day aold np a greengroeer, and kindly laid the foundation of ruin for a draper — in a manner wliich would have done credit to bis pre- deceasor. There was therefore a glow of satiefact-ion in hia heart. He was now taking bis well-earned pleasure. The fair goddeeB Pleasure aasumea aB niany ahapea as there be figures of mortal men. To every one of ua ehe is our own veritable effigies engaged in doing continnally the thing wliich at the time we love the most. Thia occupation ahe varies from age to age, but to milüons of honest Britons ehe taketh the form of a middle- agod or eldcrly man aitting in an arm-chair with a pipe, a glase of oold without, and the evening paper. The first esaential of pleasure is rest : the aecond, tobacco : the third, drink. All tbese may be coinbmed with vaciiity of mind. But when one gets to the intellectual level of Mr. Mayea, there muat be food for the brain. Therefore, the evening paper. And, becanae of that intellectual level, it waa the aprightlieat, Bpicieut and, oonse- quently, the most truthful of the halfpenny Organa. Mr. Mayea, therefore, reated. He was at peace with all mankind. The ahallow obaerver doubts whethar a money-lender oan be at peace with the world, and therefore hia own eon- acience. Wby not ? He geta nothing but liis bond— hia legal rights. It is the businesa of iho good trsdesman to buy cheap and to aell dear : the money-lender lets out bags of gold on leaae : he aaka aa big a rent as he can eipect to get. He receivea, inatead of money down, a proniise to pay. When he eiacta the folfihnent of that promise, wby ahould the debtor curae him, rage at him, and call bim aweater, oppresaor of tha poor, and usurer? Whatever they called him, Mr. Mayea eared nothing. He was at peace with all the world. Though the greengrocer wbom he had eold up waa at that moment ragbg 176 THE BELL OF ST. PAUVS and gnashing hie tcelh, he feit no enmity towards that green- grocer. Not at all. He had seen so much of this pasaion, that he feit like a doctor in a hospital or a turnke y in a prison. 13 ut tho um-uflied calm of bis soul was to bo disturbed, and that in the most unexpeoted and the moet bewildering manner. Tou ehall hear. In the room upstaira, where tbere were the pile of papers, the Single chair and the table, sat beneath a gas-jet the Chevalier. He wore his tlat oloth cap, and for oonvenience of reading, though in the daytime he did not tise them, he wore spectaoles. He also had a pipe in hia month, an old-fashioned Gsrinan pipe with a big bowl. In his oapacity as cook he had his stated hours, but in that of clerk he had none : it was therefore not imusual with him to apend hia whole evenings in the room read- ing throngh the papers. Why not ? He had nowhere eise to go : his work was almost mechanical and causod no fatigue : ha was as conifortablo in that room as if he were wandering among the streets : alone with the papers he could think. FerhnpB, as Im turned over the pagos andplodded through the deeds, looking for nothing but the name of Mr. Norbery, bis rnind weilt back to the cid, old days beforo the fatal '4S, whtn he daneed aod made love, feasted, gambled, drank, squandered and con- spired, as lighthearted and s.s careless as any of his Magyar race. Perhapa he asked him seif what had been the outcome of that year of Revolution, defeat, and bloodshed. Perhaps he reraeinbered his own broad lands which had gone to the hands that in Hungary grasp all — those of the usurer — and Bmiled to tbiuk that he hunself in bis old age had gone the saine way as bis e states. Who knowetb the though 1 9 of an old man? Too soon— too soon — we shall learn tham for ourselves — tbe regrets, thememo- ries, the heart-srnkinga, the repentance that pass in endlose pro- ceasion through his brain. Na old man has ever yet written of his age : no old woman has ever yet attempted to arrest and sefc down on paper her flyiug though ts — they are not all, I suppose, regretB, like thoso of the Belle Heaulmiere, for her ;amshed beauty. Many old men write Beuüaiscences. They are not at all what we want. We have all been young : we all begin to Btore up our reminiscenoea as soon ae we begin to have any memory at all ; Ist na know what the old man thinka about as he Bits iu his leather chair beside the ßre ; when the workers have gone forth to their toil and the room ia quiet, while ontaide the bqh falls npon spring bloBsoms and the lark Bings in the eky, and the clock ticka in the corner, and Ihn dog dreama o the hearthrug, and the ashes drop and. the coal eracka in the grata. The Chevalier made no haste : nordidhe takereat: heplodded on, openiog one paper, reading it and tossing it, if it did not Oontain the nama of Mr. Norbery, into the right-hand corner. If it did, he laid it aaide for further examination if necessary. Bat as yet he bad chanced upon nothing of the least importance. They were the papera which ahowcd the life-work of two very industrious persona : yet they were now of not the least UBe to anybody. Thia, as Mr. Viee.simus Cottle might bave obaerved, is the way of man. He toila and moila with a mighty fnsE, mopping liis brows and pufling and panting, und behold ! when he has been dead a year or two the whole of hia Work ia naeless and forgotten as mach as the crope of golden grain which have been forced to grow by the farmer and have long aince been garnered, thraahed, gronnd, made into loaves and boked and deVoured. The pile on the table at the Chevalier's left band continually decreased, That on the right-hand corner contimially grew bigger. The papera on the shelvea gave promise of mueh more work for many a day to come. He finiehed one bündle— there was nothing in it — only the papera connected with aome old mortgage, bill of aale and so forth — and threw it into the corner. Than he took up the next bandle. Thia time he paused and smiled oddly. Tho Chevalier gene- rally amiled aadly. Thia tima it was the amile cynical, which gave a novel expreasion to hia face. He took np the bändle lying next to hand, tarned it over cnrioualy, and examined the esterior with more coro than aeemed neceasory. In appoarance it was mueh the aame as the other papera : there was the diacoloration of age and some fading of the ink, but not mach : the tape which tied the papera together had loflt ita colonr. The Chevalier, noting theae signa, smiled again. Something amused him. Perhapa aomething in hia own mind : a reminiscence of the past. Theo he elowly nntied the tape and opencd tho bnndle. Withio wäre several papera. One of these waa a doeiunent en- groaaad on parohment : it was eadorsed ' Laet "Will and Testa- ment of Samuel Norbery.' ' Laat Will and Testament of Samuel Norbery," the Chevalier read three timaa over. Then he laid it down. ' Thia ia very in- teresting,' he said. ' I am glod that I waited for the paper to take its proper tarn. Yea ' He examined a corner of ihn ontside sheet which had been folded over and ahowed a few linea written in very amall character. ' Yea ; there is no doubt. Thia i» hiJeed remnrkaUe. Now I think I know whoiBAIr.Norbery'i 178 THE BELL OF ST. PÄUL'S . I Fortunate irtdeed ! Yet — who cot many in Southwark who can write the Magyar tongue — ' He looked at tbe writing in the oomer. 'Whoknowa? Fortune ia dtceitful. Now ahe smiles. And then, again, ahe frowna. Who knowa if tbe Heir ia indeed fortunate ? ' He apread open the paper upon the table and began to read it with great care. Saddenly hia face expressed the utmost astoniahment. ' Ie it posssibla ? ' he cried. ' Why — what can thia mean? Have Imiataken the packet? That ia quite impoasible. I marked it inatantly and wrote this note upon it when he left the room. What doea it mean ? ' Thera wäre two other tnclaaarea in the packet. One of these was an crdinary letter, folded, and endoraed ' Diroctioua fot Mr, Norbery'a Will : ' the other waa a packet of three or four big hlue HheetBpinned togetbor, and ondoreed 'Diaft of Mr. Norbery'a Will." Theo the Chevalier rose and, taking these documents in hia hand, he deacended the Btaira. 'Oh ! ' eaid Mayes, turning hia headlanguidly, mindandbody baing now oompletely at rest- ' You think you've foimd aome- thing, do you ? You've found aomething. Well, now, Chevalier, won't it keop tili to-morrow ? ' ' I think it will keep if you wiah it. And I also think that you will be glad to have it now.' 1 Out with it then — ' He Btretchcd out hia hand. ' Give it over. Well now, Chevalier, I've been thinklog that you might find aomething bcfore long if only to pay for your keap. Hand it over— what ia it, man 1 What are you looking ao mighty myaterioua about ? ' 'It is ealled the Laat Will aod Testament of Samuel Norbery,' the Chevalier replied gravely. ' What ? ' Mr. Mayes dropped hia pipe, which broke into frag- mentH, and upaet hia gin -and- water. But he heeded not either diaastar. ' What ? ' he repeated. ' Say that again.' 'The document which I have found DD the table,' replied the Chevaher gravely, 'is endoraed "Laat Will and Teatament of Samuel Norbery." ' ' ' Mr. Mayes leaned forward with staring eyes and ' Oh I At last I ' he groaned, but not with pain or ?orrow. ' I have opened and read it,' tha Chevaher went on. ' It ia witneseed by youraelf.' 1 Ay — by myself — and by Backler'a clerk.' * And by Mr. Backler'a clerk. It ia dated ' 'Give it over, Chevalier. Lot me have it.' Mr. Mayes «lutched the paper greedily. * Oh 1 I know it would be found at red oheeka. IN TIME OF TEMPTATION i;o, Yet how eould it escape 1 They searched oll throngh the 's papers and throngh Backler'a papora and couldn't linu. is. iet here it ia. a big bündle, endorsed outside. Che- valier, how eould a big bündle like this get mialaid 1 You might as well lnislay abarge loaded with petrol cum easks on the Bank. It'a a very curious thing.' He turned over the papera as if their appoaranee would eulighten him. ' What ehelf did it come frora?' 'I found it on the table.' 1 Well — anyhow— here it ia. Lord 1 I remember eigning it. And now wo shall know how he left his money. Somebody will be a lucky inan u-hen tliia will isproved. Eut it'a gotto leaveniy hands first. His last will. I remember as if it waa only yeater- day when it was aigned.' Ee nuraed the bündle like a baby while he aUowed hia memory to go back to the past. ' It was signed in Lawyer Eackler'a otüce — hia own room at the back. How in the World could a great big paper like this get loat ? To be allre, when he weint eilly \i ii h =o much rum-and-water any- thing rnight have got loat. Yet such a paper as this— with auch an endorsetoent — and ua all searching ererywhere. Where did you find it ? ' ' Among the papers on my table,' the Chevalier repeated. ? It was in the lawyer's owri room, I remember,' Mr. Mayee went on reganlleas of the correetion— now pleaaantly launched upon the sea of memory. 'It isthirtyyearsago. Tat I remem- ber the very morning. It waa a baking day in summer— — -' ' In winter,' said the Chevalier, ' How the devil ahould you know 1 You weren't there. Yort were dodging the polico in your own cotratry — that'a what you were doing. A acorching hot day it waa. We'd just put in an eiecution für a young fellow — Chemist he was with a ahop in Newcomer Street. The Chemiat he went on like a madman, I remember, and his wife cried and aaid they were ruined. Mr. Norbery spoke up like a father, as he alwaya did : told him it would be a leaaon for the liitiire againat eitravaganee and get- ting into debt, and if he borrowed money of honest people be must pay it back — and ao on. It was beautiful to hear Mr. Norbery rebuking one of his ciients for extravagance while he waa aelling him up. I never could reaeh to it, nover.' Mr. Mayee aighed. 'Afterwards the Chemist cpuldn't get a place and he went and made a hole in the river. From Southwark Bridge, he did, and hia wife went off her chump. "Well— when we'd done with their Job, the Guv'nor turned short on me, " Mayes," he aaya, " you've got to witneaa my will," and we walked to^ether to Backler's office in the Bridge Eoad. Thirty ars ago it was. I remember it was the tinie when he'd got s dead wife'a oouain for his houaekeeper — Lucy — what wa« i8o THE BELL OF ST. PA UL'S her name ? And she offended the old man by marrying a chap down at Rotherhithe — a boat-builder he was, Waller hy name, and the old man sold him np too, pretty aharp, just to lel him knuw that you eouldn't go again Mr. Norbery for nothing. But I never heard what becaine of them. This was the Will I eigned ' — he patted the document tenderly. 'Lordl To think that it'a found. Chevalier, I'm most afraid to open it. Yet there can't be anything for nie in it. That's oertain. I wonder how he left his money. I reroember how I signed it. Mi. Baoklor's clerk — he's dead now — died three yearB ago in tho workhouse — he signed first and I signed nest.* 'No,' said the Chevalier, 'you eigned first." ' What are you keeping od interrupting For ? Don't I teil you I remember bis sigiiing first ? * ' Look at the will then.' Mr. Mayes opened it. The Chevalier was right. His own eignature canie before, not after, that of the unfortunate Pauper. 'Well, now,' flaid Mr. Mayes, ' that shows what mernory will do. Now if yon'd put me in tbe box I'd ha' eworn that I signed last. Lord I I remember üb well as ? . . and hero's just the eontrary. Why — I was no more than twenty-five or so, bnt I knew a little aoout Law, and I knew that if I was a witness there oould be nothing for nie, and I did think that after I'd aorved the Guv'nor sicee I was twelve he might have remem- bered me with a trifle. Not he I Well now, that's a queer trick for memory to serve me. Yes, there's the old man'e Signatare — his "a" liko print, with a dot at both ends : and hia "y " with a curly tn.il and a dot on both sides of the tail : and there's mine — though I didu't think I wrote so well in those days. Mine ia a hand that improvea by practice. No, I certainly thought I bad a clumsy fist in those days.' ' You said it was on a summ er morning, ' said the Chevalier. ' Look at the will then,' the Chevalier repeated. He pointed to the date. Mr. Mayes read and looked as one who finds the solid earth Banking beneath bis feet. ' Lord I ' he cried. 'I'ni wrong again — "December the eightaenthl " Why, I'd ha' sworn— there was the Chemist and the shop : the man sputtering with rage and his wife all ofatremble — and — and the hot annähme out o' doora Why, I remember Walking in the shade. Chevalier, what 's the meaning of it ? Do you think got a softening ? To be sure it was thirty yearB ago,' Eisht,' aaid the Chevalier. Thirty, you fool I ' Mr. Mayes turned very red at the third oorrection of fact. ' How the devil should you know ? ' ' Look at the will again.' Hr. Mayes looked again, The füll date was December th« tr sl: IN TIME OF TEMPTATION 1R1 eightcenih 1879. He gazed upon the data with open mouth. He oould eay nothing. He was quite eonfounded. For bis memory had changed eight yeara into tMrty : it had changed winter into summer: hie own age frora twenty-five to forty. eeven : and his own Signatare frora aecond to first. These are verv wonderful tricks for memory to play. He lonked at the Chevalier and shook his head, because lan- guafjo failed bim. ' I leave it with yon,' said the clerk. ' I shall go to bed.' ' Btop— stop. Teil me first— before I read it— am I awaks and in inj senscs ? — teil ine — how did the old man leave his money ? * ' He left it all to Althea, daughter of Clement Indagine, to be Eaid over to her on the day when ehe should marry and changa er name. Mcantime, imtil her raarriage, the whole was to be in the hands of trufiteeB.' 'WhoarethetrusteeB?' ' Backler the Solicitor, and yon — Joseph Mayes. Bat there's more in the Will.' ' Go away,' said Mr. Mayea faintly. ' Go away, Chevalier — I must — I must read it for myaelf.' He read it ihrough thxee timea. First ho read it as quickly as he oould — being but a slow reader at the best. Then he read it twioe over more slowly. Then be put the Will aside and read the other documonts- — Mr. Norbery's own letter of Instructions and the Solicitor'e draft, Never in all his life had he been bo bewildered. He remem- bered the hot Stimmer morning, the wailing of the Chemist's vife, the fiignature of tbe lawyer's clerk followed by his own, in Mr. Backler's offioe, thirty yeara before. But for the life of him he could not remember the winter morning eight years ago, when he signed first. 'I conld have sworn ' he repeated. In fact many times over he did swear. And yet the Will, dated Deo. 19, 1879, stared him in the face. For the moment the disposition of the Will hardly concerned him. He was trying to remamber — and he could in no way remember — signing that Will. Eight yeara ago, not thirty. And he himeelf appointed Trustes, with notliing for his trouble. That little fact, certainly, was oxactly like the oid man, Only eight years ago, and yet he could not remember : while of the previous Will, that made thirty yeara before, destroyed, no doubt, in favonr of the new Will, he remembered all thoae details whieb he had set forth. A very stränge Situation, a trnly original and previously unheard-of Situation, that a Will should have been found after the Treasury people had searcheil everywhere : a Will not thrust away in some eorner, but lying r82 THE BELL OF ST PAUDS boldly among other papers : a Will witnessed by himself: only eight years ago— and yet he could not remember anything, not the least thing in the world about it. Bewildered with this extraordinary trick of memory, Mr. Mayes stimulated hiß brain with a drink — with two — three drinks. Before going to bed he had succeeded in recalling all the oiroumstanoes of the oase : he saw, quite clearly, the old lawyer ; the lawyer's clerk, also an old man ; Mr. Norbery bent with age, a tottering old man, gathered together with himself, in the lawyer's ofiice, the Will spread out upon the table : outside, a oold December morning with snow and aleet. Yet, curiously, when he took up the pen to witness the Signatare, the figures in the interesting group were transformed, and the season waa ohanged as if in a scene at the Pantomime. It was a hot morn- ing in Summer : the lawyer and his clerk and Mr. Norbery him- self were no longer old men, but in the prime of life — Mr. Nor- bery especially upright and straight, iron grey, fifty years of age : and he himself a young man, in appearance a working man, who wrote with difficulty and handled a pen with less freedom than a chisel. He carried the Will to bed with him and put it under his pillow. But he was unable to sleep. When he dropped at last into an uneasy slumber he dreamed a hundred disquieting and uncomfortable things. And he awoke at six o'clock with a start, and sat up broad awake at once, fanoying that he had not yet even read the Will. He read it through very carefully. ' There was more in it,' the Chevalier said. Yes — there was much more in it. The Testator, Samuel Norbery, gave the whole of his pro- perty, both real and personal, to George William Backler, Solicitor, and Joseph Mayes, Clerk to himself, upon Trust to pay his debts, his funeral and other expenses, and to accumulate the residue of his property until the end of the year 1887, or until his grand-niece, Althea Indagine, daughter of Clement Indagine, then resident at No. 12 New Thames Street, Bank Side, gentleman, should change her name either by marriage with some person whose surname was not and never had been Indagine, or by public announcement, and that if the said Althea Indagine should marry such a person within the term aforesaid, the said Trustee should hold the whole of the Property in Trust for her absolutely. But in case the said Althea Indagine should not oontract such a marriage within the term aforesaid, the said Trustees were to become possessed of the said residue and accumulations upon Trust for Oliver, adopted son of Kobert Luttrel, Physician, of 12 New Thames Street, Bank Side. The whole of this magnincent property to be handled by IN TIME OF TEMPTATION 18] hiraself, in Trust I and to tHnk that aix yeara had paaaed with. out his having any of that handling t Ali that property in Trust to manage ! Theo Mr. Mayea aroae hurriedly and dreased, aad went downataira before his clerk had opened the ahutters, swept out the oflice, and taken in the milk. When breakfast was served he appeared with an unnsual amile and a meist friondly nod and looked about hini with a ebeer- fulneaa quite uncommon, for Mr. Mayes, like the greator part of mankind, generally bogan tho day grumpily. In his coat pocket waa the will. ' Bacon and egg8,' he aaid. ' You've a light hand with the frying-pan, Chevalier, 1 will say tliat of you. Take another egg. Here's one browned bcautiful. Well, nobleman, I've read the Will right through.' ' You have read the Will right through,' the Chevalier ro- peated gravaly. ' Yea, and a most wonüerM thing it ia, I don't know what they will say to it at the Treasury. I'll make a few inquiriea Erat before we move ; meantime, not a word, remewber.' ' Nota werd,' repeateellhe Chevalier, lookiug at hini strangely. 1 Ab for that poor girl, I'm eure I'in deltghted.' ' You do remember signing tlio will, then ? ' 1 Memory playa atrange tricks aometimea,' Mr. Mayes replied with sorne eonfueion. ' But a good sleep sometimes sets all to rights. It'a the work that teils, you see ; when a man ia tired, he doean't reraeinber everything." 1 The work that teils ' — the Chevalier was very odd in his manner this morning. ' Nobleman,' — Mr. Mayea asaumed his moat benignant amile — 'we're old frienda by thia time, ain't we? Certainly, says you. We know each othor at last, don't we ? Why, to be sure we do, aaya you, I've been a eonaiderate employer, haven't I ? None more so, says yon, and a haaty word now and then doean't count, between pala. If you wer« a younger man and could rim about a bit faater, yon should bo a partuer, Chevalier, inatead ol a clerk. That ia what you shoulil be.' The Chevalier bowed his heaä gravely. ' A luoky day it waa for you -when I pioked you Up, a very lncky day. You were in rags, I remember.' The Chevalier hold up the akLrt of his coat and pointed to bis oufis. 1 Well — you are rather raggüd still, Chevalier. But it's warm Wßatber now. Before the cold sota in yon ahall have a now thiek coat — rely upon that promisa — if it is only a re ward for Unding Ulis Will. 1 took you in out of the atroet,' 'Youdid.' r 1S4 THE BELL OF ST, PAUL'S 1 1 made you my clerk ' ' And your Cook and meaBenger,' said the Chevalier. 'No one eooks so well aa you, and no one handlea a frying- pari or a griddle with more feeling. I always feel at roeals, that it'B a blessing for böth of ua to havewell-cooked wholesome food — well — you'vo had light work— you can't deny that.' 'I do not deny it." 1 You've had the ran of your teetli : onough to eat, havcn't you ? ' The Chevalier bowed gravcly mul ^pccjni out hin handa. 'For your bedroom, you bavo a Hpacioua, lofty and well- lighted apartinent in tho roof, commanding a Bplendid view of tho rising Surrey hüls. In the daytime you enjoy the ose of a noble reception room ' — it wae the back offi.ee, in which they were aitting — 'replete, I am sare, with every comfort — ' it con- tained a table and two chaira, one a wooden arm-chair, the other withont arme. ' With every comfort,' Mr. Mayea repeated. 1 And with all the lateet improvementa : you have a splendid kitchen wi'Ji a beautiful ränge : you havc the unrestrieted use of a garden '—he looked ont of the window lipon the blsck patch with a ringle grimy laurel in it— 'small and compact and elegant <y ahrubbed. Tou have a refined home and a choerful if limitpi circle : my society — mine : diet unlimited and drink in moileratiou. You would also have the use of a bath if tho pipes wäre in order. And in return, such light work aa haa to be done. Don't think, Chevalier, that I grumblo at the cost. It is a Christian duty to entertain Foreign noblemen, aa well as one's fellow-creatures, especially whan they are in rags and patriotio in their disposition. I do not grudge it, I say, Chevalier, I'd do it again.' I What do you ask me to do ? ' 'Well ?' Mr. Mayes looked nneasy, 'First of all, say nothing. Do you know the girl ? ' ' I know her.' ' Teil her nothing,' he repeated. I I ahall toll her, for the rnoment, nothing. I have already promUed. I wait to aee what Lappens next.' ' And look here, Chevalier ' he shutlled hia feet and hia eyes feil. ' Memory is a very rum thing. It's the rummeat thing there ia. You took me by aurpriae laat night. I was thinking about aomething eise. Perhaps a man inay have a kind of softening and not know it. Ab for thinking it was thirty yeara ago and in the au mm er — when it was eight yeara ago, and in the winter. Hai ha! that'a a good joke — we'll have our laugh over that— to ourselvea, Chevalier, won't wo ? To our- sslvea; not with other people — we won't take anybody eise into tliat joke. I suppose — but I wouldn't say that outside — that I seivea; not m that joke. I na a li tue d M Ol Oi he 'Tim were perfecüy aober.' ' I umst Iiave been a little dronk — I had somo gin-and-water before aupper, and what with the beer at supper and tbe gin-and- water after supper ' ' You were perfectly sober,' the Chevalier repeated. ? Ob ! very well— tuen— it coeieb to thia, Chevalier, j hold your tongue about it." 1 Ton remember now that you witnessed the will eight years ogo.' ' Ceri ainly. Quite welL Certainly. Ho w oould I ever have made such a ' Then Mr. Mayes caught the Chevalier's eyee, and there was a look in them bo queer, bo atrange, so monitory, that he left the aenteuce nnonisLed and returoed to bis bacon and egg». CHAPTER XV. TBE GÜARANTEE 19 CUT OFF. Soke men carry good luck with them wherever they go— good lack to others if not to themselves, Othera carry bad lnck with them ; they are acciiraed with the possession of tho Evil Eye : those who become associated with them presently fall into aome kind of trouble, oven though tho unfortunato cause — -he who brnught the ill luck in his pocket— may still Continus to prosper inightily. It aeemed, for instance, at firat, that the young man from the enda of the earth had brought with bim every kind of happineas ; yet behold : In the honuo whioh had Bhaltered bim there was one girl who wept when she was alone and hung her head when she was in the family circle. And in the other houBe which had given hua hospitality, there was a man whom he left restless and discontented, and a girl whom he had taken out of monotony and stagnant calm and Med with new thoughts. Now the putting of new thoughta into a resident of that house was like the turning of a rushin g mountain stream into a still, placid mountain tarn. Before Lawrence came to these distant shores from far Australia, the inhabitants were even as those paaceful, tranijuil, contented Caribs before Columbus touched the ahorea of Hiapaniola. The Caribs knew few arts and desired to laiow no niore. They lived and loved after the manner of their ancoatora ; somo of them, perhaps, even ate up each other, following the aarne time-hononred esample. On Bank Side, Ohver, contented with hiBsalaryof threepounds a week, courted Caasie, and was gradnally forgctting the abommaLle principles he had learaed in Germany ; he lived the simple life and thougbi iJW THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S of science day and night. Althea's boat lay riding cm the floott while that river nymph saw trcups of ghosts Walking upon tha banka and gliding in splendid bargea up and down the river. The Poet waspreparingforposterity the Cowplete Edition of his Poems; in a work designod for poatority no one ia ever in a hurry : it may extend for a thousand years and one would not grow tired of it. Now — now — aa in those lovely Caribbean iales after the adveiit of the white .wingod ahipa, all, all waa ohanged. The old contentment was gone : anil he who could have aet thingaright was ahn gone, no onekncw whcre. More uiisfortiuie — much more miafortune — waa to follow. Take the uiihappy case of Lucius himself, "Up to forty yeara of age tha eareer ef thia legal functionary waa one of great success and well-iuKritcel honour. He bore his succesa and Mb honoura with becoiniiig dignity. At the age of fifteen, when he left the patemal Academy, he entered aa a junior — nothing but a junior — a boy clerk — in Chambers, being in the Service of half a dozen gentlemen, for the most part newly called to the Bar. When the othera drif'tod apart, Lucius attached himaelf — at a amall Guarantee — to one who preaently began to attract the attention of solicitors and rose rapidly into practice and to that kind of ineonio which ao tauch glorifiea and illustrates the dignity of the Bar. In due course, Mr. Polter aa- aumed ailk ; ho became Polter Q.O. The Guarantee then touched the respectable figuro of 200L, in additiou to which there were ihe elerk's feee, eo that Luoiua was in the receipt of an income for beyond anything In? Lad ciur L-xppci.od, aml stood aniong tha tttoat envied of hia brethren who umainpon the Higher Brauch. The Barrister's Clerk ocoiiac- ;i uiii.jut position inClorkdom. His income, not hia Guarantee or fixed salary, risea and falls with that of hia maater. There is thua estnblished a kind of partner- ship : or rather, there ia the relationship of client and patron. If thepatron or the lawyer hua u Lad tiuir:-, it is.si)fLiL>dby theclient or clerk. When the pntron ia successful, the client, like the Pope, leads a happy life. But, aa in every other earthly eareer, there are many who fall in thia bleasednesa of a patroo'a success and never riae above the Guarantee. And, as in all other pro- feaaiona, there are many kinda of nien who foOow it. There ia the dignified clerk, for inatance, auch aa Luciua Cottlo, whoae manners are founded on those of the Beuch, rather than the Bar. There is the convivial clerk who drinketh with other Clerks, even with those of tho Lower Brancti, and hath no pride in hia oalling, and may be aeen in billiard rooma and musie halle. There ia again the clerk who bringa husinesa : he presenta an afiable and cheerful countenance ; he haa a warm grasp and a sunny amile, and he haa a cold heart : in these daya, it is such a clerk aa is most deaired. THE GUARA TEE IS CU OFF 187 few bri The oh who ta "" There was no more dignifted clerk in the Four Ions of Coiirt mn Mr. Cottle : nor was there oiie who was more respected in both branches. Polte* Q.C. was envied for the possesaion of this Prince, Paragon, or Ph<tnijL of Clerks. He was Hlppotnfl M cause the flow of Business as the mocii cauaeth the flow uf tides. No clerk ever recoived a brief with a finer air : he conforred n favour by taking it : he ihd not diaplay gratitude ; hia was the obliging party, not the obliged. 1 We are very buay just now,' he would say, lifting a brow preoccnpied with the cares of work. ' But you may leave it with me ; we will do what we etm for you.' Nor did any clerk rate his master's Services at a more princely value. Polter would liave been maile a judge : everybody aaid that he was certain to be mtulc a judge ! in lliat case one of the Buug little bertha of which there are so many in the Courts of Law would have been found for LuciuB. Alas ! The Lady Alrupoa — let us apeak of her with awe — cnt a certain thread with her Bcissors and Folter Q.C. had to retire from Chambers, olnb, Cumberland Terraoe, and his wide circle of friends and tha world. He gave up practica and feil asleep in Kensal Green. Never did a greater misfortnne befall any Barrister'a Clerk. That was five yeara before this history begins, whun Lucius was forty years of age. Everyone, at first, said that the man would befortunate who ehonld aecure Polter'a clerk. Bat then every man in good practica had hia own clerk already. Therefoie, Lucius had to look among the riaing men. Hie attached hiinself to one who had all the Nnbitios Mepiaite for the receipt of the most enor- inoua ineome, but laektd tho puv it eil' anivmcing solicitora tlint it would be to their advantage to give him that inoome. This aapirant thought that IniiiilHUt would fullow in the train of Polter'a clerk, and retained him, at first, 011 the old Guaranteo. Tho result waa not qiüte what was expected. For thougb aome of the clerk' b old fricnda stood by him, the uew muater was not a Polter. Then the Guarantee waa reduced. A aecond and a tliird time it was rednced. It now stood at the figure — ridiculous whon one oonsiden the ability of the recipient — of ? . . but no, 'twere mdelicate to est it down, Five yeara passed, The iearned Counsel, who had ooce ?eemed one of the Coming men, rose no higher. His chance gone : he would never get any higher euduiEeinent of the few briefs which came in : digui ty ivm UikI upon auch a waster. The Chambers were sharotl by throc or l'our youn^ geiiLlwriüu, who talked, smoked cigarettea, read Kn ncli iwvels. sivt ontables, and told each other atoriLS— and of what llippancy 1 — and had ? 88 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S a feeling, either for the dignity of a clerkor the gravi ty of their profeaaion. One of them spent hia whole time in writing for the magazinea: he was known to have written a novel, for the production of which he had paid a largo aum, and he was said to have suceeeded in getting a farce accepted at the Melpomena Theatre — a farce — and a novel — oh I dread Shitde of Polter I The last blow feil ; the Guarantee was cut off: Lucius waa informed that hia aervicea, in the depreesed condition of busi- neaa, could all be performod by a boy. He could, therefore, take a month'a notice or a month's pay. The hlow waa not unen- pectcd, yet, when it feil, it was like the stroke of a harnmer on the temple, for it atunned thia cterk and for a whole morning left him speechless. The vivacious young gentleinen told their atories within hearing, but he heard them not. He aat at hia desk, but though there was no work to do he held pen in band and though t that he waa dri virig it. At the Farne moment another disaster feil npon the unfor- tunate faniily. Misfortunes are gregarious, aa ih well known : they love not aolitary waya : they will atill be moying, if they can, in troopa. We must not blame the Manager of the St. Panl'a Cathedral brauch. He ia responsable for tbe conduct of the business ; if thingB go wrong it ie he who isblamed: he ia not, again, the Proprietor : if he were, he could afford aometimea to pasa over, topardon, to aeeept excusea, to give tirne, to be moved with com- passion. A inanager eannui pormii hiinsclf n,nyof theae pleasurea. It was Oassie's duty to reeeive viaitora, to point out to them the varioua styles in which grace and comeliness such aa theira may be reprcsented by tbe aim : to take their guineaa and to ahow them auch civility as would give thia atelier a good name. As she waa an obliging girl of ploaaing addreaa, and appear- anco to correapond, she had httherto given satiafaction to the Manager. Alas I sinec her trouble began, all thia waa changed. Her smiles vanished : her manner waa short, her appearance aad ; and aa day followod day, there was no change in these eigna of trouble and diatreaa. ' See now, young lady,' aaid the Manager, ' Things can't go on thia way, you know.' ' What way ? ' aaked Caasie perfectly well understanding. ' What'B eome over you ? "VVhat'a the matter with you 1 ' 'Nothing,' said the girl. ' That'a nonaenae, and you know it. Where'a your cheerful- nesa ? where's your old smile, and your good looks ? Well — it's no coneern ofmine what the trouble may be, but don't you see that we can't go on 1 ' 1 I do my work,' she replieä. 'Tes, you reeeive the people aa if you wanted to ery over GUARANTEE IS CUT OFF them. Hang it I Feople won't fco eried over : you might jriat as well pray for W And then they go away and say the girl looks so miserable that she must be ill.treated — v/ha ill-treats you in tliiü house, I ahonld liko to know ? ' 1 Nobody.' ' Nobody, of course not. But we get all the credit of it. "Why, yon are actually bringing a bad name on the place. We oan't go on, you know, we really can't,' ? What do you want me to do 9 ' ' Get back your eheorful looka, my girl, that's what I want yon to do. If you can do that IVe no complaint to ranke. If you can't, why then, you eee, we must consider our position.' In a week's time, Cassie remainmg contumacious in melan- choly, the Manager did consider the position. Now when a business man conaidere a position, he is not like a military man engaged in the same occupation. He 18 not going to defend or to storm that position. He is going to put an end to it. The position therefore vanished. Cassie received a week'a notice. Alas for the pereecution of Fate 1 It was on the siuiie day that the Quarantee was withdrawn. Mr. Cottle came home that evening with an air of increased dignity. He at first said nothing, but took his arm-chair, and sat bolt npright without book or newspaper, his thin legs crossed, his händs npoo the arms of the chair, hie head erect, as one who awaitB buffeta of fortune. It was an attitude for a gentleman in time of trouble unde- served. Flavia, the most sympathßtic of the throo as regards her father, was the first to perceive that something had bap- pcned — of course, something bad; but she said nothing. Pre. eently Cornelia, from her chair, beoame also aware that something had happened. The uneasineBS of anticipation is as catching as mumps. Sempronius perceived that something was in the air; be, too, was arrived at that stage of exparience whan thing» trausnal are expeoted to be thinga unpleasant. Cassie suffering on her own aocount rcgarded not her parent. Besides she was looking out of the window. She saw and feit nothing but her own sadness. The Master of the house, not unconscious of awakensd euriosity, sat in silence : from tiine to time a Braue passed over his face, as of one who enduras, or a gentle nod, as of one who accepts: but he would not too quickly satisfy ouriosity. His own admirable behaviour under misfortune pleased and con- soled him. Does it not always console the sufferer when he can feel that he bas done or said the right thing ? Consider the fre- quent mnerals of the Mile Eud Read, wheretheystillknow how to do justice to a funeral. Äs the men in hlaok walk Btately büfore and beeide the bier, you may look into the carriages and ic» THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S mark how tho grief of the bereaved ia visibly consoied by the admiration of the pcople on the pavemeut. They ait npright with conseious pride : the warnen bridle and emile : the men nudgo oach othor. A finiily which can do things in auch a style is indeed one whieh confera hononr on itB members. Whon Luüiua presently aroae and aought the book with whioh he iUuetrated cvery diiEcnlty in the conduct of life— I mean his father's work, which was hia guide in doubt and bis fount of consolation in trouble — Flavia underatood that the Posi- tion was serious indeed. He opened the book and laid it before him. Then he tumed overthe pages and cleared hia throat as one wlio ia about to commence Family Players. He then read aloud, with intervals for meditation, detached maxiina or sentences as he found them in tbe volume. The effeot was as saddening as the ring- ing of a knoll or the firin» of minute guna at aoa. ' When Eliphaz, Bildad and Zophar could not conaole the afflicted Patriarch, Üie Hand which had laid the auffering upon hiln waa pleased gracioualy toreniove them. With this example before him, the wise man waits.' ' Childron,' aaid tho expositor, ' tho wise man waita.' Flavia was ttnable to witkhold a mnrmur of admiration. Never was auch a man aa father for bcbaving in the rtght way. Other sufferers waltz around and let thtmselvea rip : he on tha othcr band — but wiiat had happened to him ? The reader went on : — ' " Belisariua, blind and o\ü, extends his band and bega an obolus. Cra'aus is laid upon tha pyre to be buraed alive. Dionyaius teaches a aehool. These are the comraonest illuatra- tiona of Fickle Fortune. We need not go to hiatory for examples of her inconstancy, because every workhouae presenta US with many proofs. Let us read in the Book of Life, which lies open to all of ua, Icasona that may keep ua aober in timea of fatneaa, und reaigned in tiuies of dearth. Should the worst bappen to na we have at band inatancea parallel with our own eaBe or even worse." Theae, ehildren, are the words of your grandfather. The wiae man is reaigned in timoa of dearth, that is, I take it, not dearneas, becanse I have ahvays found thinga dear, all my life— but, in tünes of acarcity, whon not only luxurieB have to be abandoned bot nccessarieB have to be atraitened." At this point Sernjironius, who was aitting behind hia father, clapped hia hands to his ears so as not to hoar these aignala of diatresa. Band« he tntl ? mocrt wonderful book toread: it waa about an heroic boy with Nelson. And Casaie about this time became conacious of aomething unusual and tumed her head. And Cornelia coughed quictly. The action ia with aoroe an in- dication of aatiafoulion or of pride which niust manifest itself in . onat misfc THE GUARANTEE IS CUT OFF igi some way. In the Church one cannot clap handa, atamp with the feet, or cry encore. Therefore one ooughs quietly. Well. mannered Iadiea in a certain rank of life seldom inark their approval in any other way. Her brother turned twoorthreepages more. and in the voice of a clergyman at a funeral began again: — ' The wanta of the body ara few. The chances of Fortune cannot toucb tba aoul. He who ' 1 Father 1 ' cried Fla via, Bpriuging to her feet, ' what in the world hag happened ? " Hei fotber cloaed the book, laid his left hand upon it and thrust the right hand into hie bosoin. Then he rose and etood upon tbe hearth and lookod round him. 'Cbildren,' he Said, 'and Sister Cornelia, I havo this day received intimation that tho Guarantee is withdrawn.' 'Lucius,' cried his Bister, 'you Uon't mean to aay that you are out of place ? ' ' We don't call it " place," Sister, in the Higher Brauch. Tbe Guarantee, I said, haa bcen withdrawn — tbe Guaraatee.' 'Well, father,' said Flavia, ' but auch aa you can easily find another— Guarantee. You havo only to lift your httle finger Why, I have often wondered at your staying 80 long where thero waa bo litüe for you.' ' I hope I may find another Guarantee. At the same thne I do not disguise fruin mysalf (hat business is bad and euch an official aa mysolf, with ihirty years of expericnce, may not imme- diately oomnininl tlm pno« whicti ha not urinaturally puta upon hia own aerviceB. I have received a month'a notica wilh Option of a month's pay ; this I bave tnken, becauee I shall then have leiBtiro to look around. Meilntime, mj childicn, until aomething elseiafound thereieno income and only tbe Bionth's pay in hand.' ? Well, I've got twenty-five shilhnga a week,' aaid Flavia, 1 and there's Aunt, and Cassie haa got eighteen Shillings, Wo ahan't etarve for a bit.' ' Oh 1 ' said Casaie, ' I was going to teil you. It is a terrible miafortune — I didn't know how dreadhj it was going to be, I've had a week's notice too.' ' You, Casaie,' cried Flavia, ' -why I thought — what have yon 1 The Manager wanta more cheerfulness. He aays be won't have people cried over.' ' Ob ! ' said Flavia, ' this ia terrible.' ' I dare aay I shall find another place,' said Casaie. ' Any- thing will do — what doea it matter 1 Perhaps ihey will take me 1 an undertaker'a.' Ohl what shall we do?" cried Flavia in despair, 'Thii fortune on the top of the other.' Dobo xtfl THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S ' My children, we have riecil of all the fortifications of philo, lophy.' Lucius stcppcd to the table again and opeued hia 'The othar night,' aaid Cornelia— ' last night it was — no — the day before yesterday towards the morning-, I dreamed o( rainbowa. I might have known they irieaut a change of fortune.' 'Well, aunt,' said Flavia, 'if you must dream, you had better dream a way out of it, I think.' She stepped over to her aiater and laid her arm round her. ' CaBaie, dear,' aha said, ' must you go ? Won't they keep yon on if you come to look happy again 1 Try, dear — oonaider — how are wa to live ? Can't you amile and laugh and joke with them aa you uaed to do ? ' 'Look happy, Flavia ? ' Thegirl turned herwanandBorrow- Btricken face. ' Look happy 1 I ? Don't mind me, dear, thera must be some place where they want a miserable girl.' ' Oh 1 I could kill him— I wißh I oould kill him,' Flavia whispered. Her father had found another paBBage and read it — his worda falling again npon their hcarts like the tolling of that dismal beU of desto. ' Virtue makes the mind invincible. It placea üb beyond the power of Fortune, though not beyond the malice which that GoddesB sometimes seems to ahow. When Zeno was told that all his gooda were drowned— " Why then," Said he, "I peroeiva that Fortune hath a mind to make me a philoaopher." My children, I am much in the posüion of Zeno : let me, too, become a philosopher— I will be no longer Lucius but Zeno.' CHÄPTEB XVL ?WHEN LOTE WITH ÜNCOMTMED WINGS." The aftemoon was as hol aa, in August, aftemoona can be. In New ThamcB Street the air was like that of the innermost Chamber in the Turkiah Bath, where he who daree to Bit may have his egg boiled in his hand, and place his toast to be roaated beeide him on the seat. It wae like the air of a baker's oven. Every blick was a Are brick in a rod-hot atove : every Btone in the pavement Struck out heat in invisible Harnes that scorched the hands and face. The face of the river trembled with the heat : boat oould live upou it ; faraway upstream where houae-boats are moored, thuso who were in them pulled down the blinda to shut out the blinding glare of the great heat and lay panting in • WHEN LOVE WITH UNCONFINED WINGS' 193 tho shade : thoso in town wished themselves by the aeaside, (ha breeze fresh and oool fanning their cheeks : ihose at the seaside Bprawled in the ehadow of the rocks and longed to be under aoma tree in a shady wood i those in the woods longed für the cool bank of a trout-stream on the billside : those who might have sat upoa such a bank Btayed indoors : the working man longed for the long oool draught from the pewter in the bar : the City Clerk in vain hopeof acoolretreattried the handle b of tkechureti It was perhaps the heat of the day which made AI tlica rest- less : it was perhaps the closo air of the street whioh made her cheek pale and drew Buch a dark ring round her eye» and spread a cloud upon her forehead. She was disquieted : her soui was troubled with unreat and discontent. We who wag grey bearda forget tMs dieease of youth — tho nialady el roatlesaness, the aick- ness of yearning after the unknown, the oppression and pain of diacontent. Althea waa hko the child who criea becauae it wanta Bomething bot knowa not what. She eat at her piano and played a little, letting her fingers wander ovor the koys. The muaia brought her no tranquillity. Then she exehanged the miiBic- Btool for a ehair and took up some work. If needlework cannot ateady a woman'a norvoa, nothing can. Watoh a woman when, in a atate of narvoua agitation, sho aita down and takesherwork, because ehe can Bay and do nomore. She snatches the stuff: while her Ups move with the words which she does not utter, while her cheeka burn and her eyes Üash, tho needle flies: the aharp tick as it leaves the stnff ia like the beat of a quickened pulse : see— aho ia stÜl in the paroiyam of her rage, hür joalousy, her feara — faster— fastor fliea the noodle. Presently it begins to move more slowly : the medicine works : tho nervee are begin- nipg to quiet down : little by little the naedle reaumes its cus- tomary pace ; the woman smooths the work upon her knee, and wonders at tho progreas that ahe has made, forgetting the awift- nesa with which that little sympathetic inatrument responded to her emotion. Now her eyes are eteady, her Ups are quiet : she lets the work Ue idly in her lap : ehe aita upright, looka round tai beaves a sigh. Should her lover or her husband find her now, she wül greet bim with forgiveness in her face and a kiBS upon her lips. Buttheneedle failed to onre Althea' srestlessneBH. She threw away the work and went to her bookahelvea, which were moetly Med with poetry. As bGoomesa grandchildof the Muse, Althea read a great deal of poetry. She Btood awhile trying to reraember Bomettung that would suit her mood. Booka there are wiht medicine for every mood except o>ne. When the patient euifera from the restlessnesB of youth, na poet has ever yet been fonnd Who can suit that mood or eure that dieorder. ßhe took down g 194 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S volumo öfter volume, turned cver the leftTea awhile, and put it back again. Presently aome linea caught her eye— I dare eoy ahe had read them a hundred times betöre, but now they asemed to have new force and a new meacing. They were the linea ?Wh™ Loto with nnconfliiM wlngi The eweet extravaganeeof the verse: the worship of her own name : the foolishneaa of any innn deairing to he tangled in a woman'a hair : the audacity üf comparing !iis soul, free to love, with the ' enlarged winde that curle the flood : ' hia contontment — oh, fond yonng man 1 — with the freedom of love : Struck soma chord in her own heart. She read the poem a second and a third tiiao, and sighed as Ehe put the book back in its place. No woman really deaireB to have her hair tangled about her lover — the thing would actually in itsclf give her no eatisfaction at all : but that he ehould desire it — that he ahould find a myaterious and wondcrful happineas in a thing so foolisb — that he ehould desire to be füttered to hia sweetheart'a eyo— that he ahould tromble in her proaonce, and rejoiee only to touch her hand — this is the sweetnesa and the beauty of love. Thercforo, perliapa aa ono who recogiüscs aweetness and beauty in the abatract, without reference to barself, Althea eighed when she laid down the poet. It waa ftnothor poet whom alle opened next. Thia girl read poetryaa othera read novels. It waa the good old faehion until siity or neventy yeara ago. Then, no oue could ever explain why, poetry came ilown with a craah and haa never, nimncially or fashionably apeaking, got up again. It went out of the daily life. Poeta nowadayB have to Bing for very amall pay. Novele feil, too, with poetry: they lay confounded in one common ruin. But novelfl got up again. Needs must that we exchange our own lives and troubles, eometimeB, for other livea and truubles. Novels arose, learaed lessons fi'om Iho past, reformed, and pros- pered again. Some time, perhapa, they may fall again, if ever tliey grow ao dull and ao conventional aa those of the twentiea: tcmporary eclipse from thia cause ia alwaya poaaible. Or, if the daily lifo, tho common lot, is filled with new interests : if dull lives are brightened by new excitemonta and more frequent pleasurea, the novel will perhans no longer be wanted. But that day ie dietant. The book which Althen took down next was the firet volumo ? WHEN LOVE WITH UNCONFINED WINGS' 195 ofTonnyson. She read ' Mariona in the Sonth.' Itmightalrno.it have been written for Hariana on Bank Side. Why rot ? Shall tha Borongh contain no romanco ? la not the Bank of silver Thamesas lit for love and poetryas tbo parched and arid County of Provence ? 'Ah I' ehosung, ' to ho all alono : To live lorgottcn aofl die lorlorn I ? Ehe aighcä again when aha put down the book. She looked ftbout her : instead of the high white wall, the green lattice, the dusty vines, the white road, the broad graval and shallow atretch of the river-bed, tho dazzling light, the bare dry hüls, the grey oiive that never was yonng-, the parched earth of the heida, the mulberry treea strippe J of tlidlr loavcs, on which Mariana looked, ahe saw the open winclow, the hot and narrow stroet, and heard the bustle of the Bank, wfaere the men ran np and down the planks with their barrowa and the steamers panted along what they call the Silent Highway. 'SomcUmee In the fallfng day. An image seemnl to pasä tho [loar. 1 Sbe looked np involimtarüy as if to catch a fleeting glimpse of that image, orto hear a footstep at the door. But she saw no image and heard no footstep. That is, there were, outaide, the customary Sounds with the sledge hammer of the Boiler Works, banging as vigoronsly aa a cabman Swings hia arma in cold weather ; but the only footstep ehe heard was that of her father in his study. The poet, too, was restless : he tosaed his long locka bohind him : he walked about his room, : he fidgeted among his books and with bis papers. But he knaw exactly — which Altbea did not — wbat raade him restless. He wauted Laurence back. He wanted more praise : to a poet, praise is like sunshino : to all of us it does good unless, which rarely liappens, we gut too much : but a Poet needs it, as much as hc iiiit-'.L-; luod for :lio body. He drew froni an envelope the tamous article of the Satardtty Review, it was now falling topiecea bybemsconstantly openea and read : he knew it by heart ; yet he read it again and agaiö. There was one line in it which leamed to give only qualified praiaa. Thin passage gave him so milch p;iin that hehad acquired thehabit of leaving it out : he skipped it : his eye refused to see it. But the rest— the rast, indeed, was beautiful, true, aud yet so Btrictly just. When he had read it through be folded it and replaeed it earefnlly in the envelope. Tben bis restlessneaa, soothod for tha moment, feil opon him again. His table was covered with his own manuscript poems. fiince the arrival of this wouderiul young man — like a young >1 that.' 196 THE BELL OF ST. PAVL'S man in a fairy story — who had eotne all the way from Anetralia solely in order to gaze upon hiiu, he had been continually esaroining and poliehing this proetous collection. He was going to publish them, eoine time, when the polishing procesa was oomplete. How much immortal veree is withheld from the world because the poet is never satisfied to let ii leave hia hands 1 While he is still correcting and polishing — click 1 he heara tha fatal acissors. Then he drup-, bis p.ipiT^. and presently nneym- pathetic executors omsign them to the waale-paper basket. Of late yeara, the poot had written little. Shnt up in his little corner of London, removed from the Bourees of inspiration — for if an artist neither studies man nor nature — if he conyorsa not with gracious lady or simple Ehcphürdesa— if he shata hia eyea to the Heavens and the round world and all that Hierein is, he rmiEt aiiralydry up. Genius mnnt l>o l'td ; thi-rtfore, Clement Indagine had of late written little: and that httle, he could Bot but own to himaelf — few poets are so truthful — was but a pale reüection, a thin replica, of what lic had written before. Älthea lüund hiin wandering as restless aa herseif among 'My dear,' he cried, ' if you. had not ceme to me I nmst have gone to you.' '"What isit, dear?" ' I don't know. I — I — I want something, Älthea.' He said this quite aimply and like a child. He wanted something. Ha Bat down and leaned his he-ad lipon hia hands. ' My dear, I cannot sleep at night. In the morning I am lonely. All dny I feel like a pnsoner — I have been hero thirty yeara and I have never feit like this before.' ' Perhapa the time haa come for you to go back to the world.' 'Tee — yeB, that must be it. Mr. Waller said he would taka me — why does he not come back 1 Where is he, Älthea ? ' 1 Indeed, I do not know.' ' I thought he had bronght rne happinesa, but he haa not. He has brought me nothing but diseontent ' 1 Oh 1 father, not happiness to feel that the people Iove your verses and repeat theni and irnote them ? ' 'I want to liear them repeat the VUIMI — I want to see with my own eyea.' 1 Then, dear, Ißt na go back to the world together.' 1 Tou and I together ? Why, my dear, the world is for men, Tou eoiild not sit in the tavern drinking with üb. I must go alone — or with Mr. Waller. My dear, the world is not fot girla. It is a rüde, rough place. They hooted me out of ik Can I teil how they will reeeive me again ? ' ' Why,— aa if there could be any doubt. Have no fear aboul that.* , ? WHEN LOVE WITH XTNCONFINED WINGS' 197 I Oh ! It is Mr. "Waller that I wank Where ia he ? Why ha B he gone away ? ' He begon to pace the room impatiently. ' It not right for him to Ieave me so suddenly. "Why, if he were conio back and to take mo into the world, all would be weih "Without him —Is it possible, Althea,' he exclaimed in agitation, 1 that a few weeka ahould moke snch a difference ? Sil weeka ago I had never Seen him : now I mies him every hour of the day. Never was there euch a bright and cheerful lad : ha leughed and made na langh : why, had you ever heard me langh before 7 Poor ohild, it grieves me now to thitik that there waa no langh tor in the hoiiEe until this yonng AnBtrahan bronght it. Even Oliver never laughed. And then he was füll of aympathy — and he knew how to be respectful in the presenoe of geniue : he ougkt nut to have gone, I say— he ought not — why did he go ? ' I I do not know. I only know that he is gone. It wae a wonderful change that ho bronght to na. Now that he haa gone it ia difSeult to Bettle back to the old tranquillity. But we must remember that after all ha waa a Btranger to na— we were nothing to bim ; at home he livea in a great house ; why ehould we espect him to cont imie in th£s huuihle place ? ' 1 Because, my dear,' aaid the poet with conlidenee, ' he took the greatest possible pleasure in my eociety. That is, I shonld Bay, quite auffieient reason. Poets do not hve everywhera. In order to enjoy my conversation, he oame here, os you know, nearly every evening : in order to please me and to will some mark of my gralitude, he waa good enongh to ahow yon, my dear, such attentions as a yonng' man can pay to a younglady : he rowed with you, wolked with you, and talkeä with yon. "Well, it was kind of him. I thoroughly appreeiate bis motivea. I saw through hia thin pretencea — to othera it might have seemed a desire for your society — I, for my part, know better. Well, he has eamed my gratitude : ho haa won my fxiendship : he has his reward.' 1 Yea, dear.' Althea did not dispute thia propoaition. * Bot he had buainese of some kind to do here, and when that was dune he had to go. Couldweexpecthim tostayoa just to please na? ' ' Nay — nay — but to pleaae himself, child— to pleaBe himseli You, who have always hved with a poet, do not quite understand how the poetio temperament may strike the imagination of a yonng man. To please himaelf.' 1 Perhapa he will aome again. He haa promised to eee us again before he goea home.' ' Then look at the way of it,' her father continued, grambling. 'He never told us he waa going— he just walked out of the house without a Word. It was 011 that eveuing when you becaiue engaged to Ohver.' THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S 198 ' Father,' eaid Althea quiekly. ' Please understand olearly — I am not engaged to Oliver. I told yon at the time — it was only a condition — if I oould bring myself to eare for him ' ' But, my dear — we thought — your uncle thinka — we all hoped and belle ved tliat this wn.9 a figure of speech. We wera quile satiafied with the condition. Ofcourae a girl eannot be espected to fall into hör lover'a arms.' ' It is impossible — I thoiigM so then — now I know that it ia impossible. Even if be carod for tue it woiüJ be impossible, fatber '? — sbe became suddenly resolute iraomuch that ber father was instant! y ewri&oed. ' Nover— never— never — would I inarry Oliver. The thought of such a thing is horrible,' ' My dear child : ' be took her band aEtonished at her vebemence : ' my dear, you shall not, unleaa you please. Let 113 talk no more about it.' At another time he would have said a good deal, but t'or the nioniont ho was füll of hia own sorrowa. The best rornedy agninst grieving over otbera' troubles is to have plenty of your own. 1 You were talking of Mr. Waller,' eaid Althea. 'Tee. And I must say, my dear, that I eannot posaibly understand his conduet. Wbat makea it the more remarkable ja that he had been invited to congratulate üb — to ahare our family joy. So great was the contidence we renoaed in bim.' ' To congratulate you ? ' ' Why, my dear,' her father replied in Borne confnsion, ' we natnrally thought— we believed — we hopcd, that you were going to make us all happy by accepting Oliver. And your nnole told Mr. Waller in the morning wbat was going on.' ' Told Mr. Waller ? Oh ! How could he talk about me in that way ? ' '.your uncle was atmck — doetora notico things, you know — with akind of melancholy whieh aeomed to fall suddenlyupon the young man. I think aomothing must have happened. He became gloomy and answered in monosyllablca. I expected htm to call in the afternoon — I had in fact a poem to aubinit to him. It was one in my Middle style. But be did not coine. I wieh now that your uncle had preased bim to explain the cause of bis gloom.' 1 Mr. Waller knew tbat Oliver ' Althea began with bum- ing eheeks. 1 Certainly, my dear. And he was invited to join in con- gratulationa : he oaine aa he had promised : we were all ailent and ratber anxious, I reineinber, bocause, my dear, your future was at stake, and tbat was cause enough for anxiety— but I oould not help observing tbe young man'a changed appearance. He looked haggard— actuaOy white and haggard. He stood at tbe window and hardly spuke. Sometbing must have happened • WHEN LOVE WITH UNCONFINED WINGS' 199 to liim. Perhaps he was ill. However, onr thoughta wert; with Oliver and yon ' 1 Never mind abont Oliver,' said the girl. 'Well — when Oliver threw open tlie door and told tis what had happened — I mean, what he thought had been promised — Mr. Waller without a single ward rushed out of the house. Did yon not see Lim ? He ruahed. He said not one aingle word — he ruahed ont of the honse. And nest day we hear that he ia gone. Did yon not see him ? ' ' No, I did not know,' she replied, but in a voico bo stränge and constrained that her früher was startled. 'Why, ruy dear,' he laid his hand upon hers — ' what is the matter?' ' Nothing — nothing — what shoold there be ? ' But her looliB belied her words. For her cheek was pale and her eyea were dilated as those of one stnrtled by a revelation. Indeed a revelation had come unto her — the audden perception of so great a thing that it caused th-ese ontward signs of inward tumult. A revelation — nothing lesa. One tliat wonld hence- fortb. change all her life and give new colour to the World around her. In her ears, as if to aceompany the revelation, wera ringing, in a voice which she knew and remembered, oertain words which ehe had read an hour agone, ' Wim lave with nnconfluW wing» And mj dirine Althea brlnga — ' 1 What is it, dcar ? " asked her father. ' Why do yon look so frightened ? What have I said ? Believe nie, dear, Oliver shall not ' ' Oh, never speak of Oüver again — never again,' she repeated, shuddering. ' I cannot bear to hear hia name. No— no ' ahe looked round aa if terrified, 'cothingia the matter— no thing. — It ia the hot day and I am restless, and oh I I am so lonely and ao friendlesa— bo friendlesa ' — ehe burst into sobs and tears. Now thifl elderly divine Makei had been all hia life writingof Love, in praiae and worship of Love. Of Love the unconquered, Love the Dominator. Of woman'B affeotion and ofman's passion he had beenmaking rhymea for forty yeara and more. But it was Love Conventions!, Love unreal, that he deseribod. Tmtli to teil, though his words might be aa fiery as thoae of the eighteenth- Century barda wlio burned and Bwooned and named in rapture and died in ecstasy, hia verae could have moved no one. Alao, being a man whose thoughta were ohiefly oecupied with hiniael£ he never observed the piain and common Symptoms of love. You have seen in what a apirit he interpreted the yonng man's attentions to his daughter. Flavia, who had never written any versea — she had indeed never read any eseept in a hymn-bonk — toa THE BELL OF ST. PAULS nnderstood these aymptoms very well. But the Poet, the Malter of a hundred love poems, eould not discover these Symptoms even when thej wen oshibited under hia own Parnassian roof, within an inch of h:s poetic do ee. ' Yea, dear,' he said. ' Huah, do not cry, Althea, my dear, wa uro lonely and fviendless '- — tho tears atood in bis eyes ae well. ? We are poor and lonely and frieadless. We had ono friend and he is gone. Huüh,niy dear.you tcar my heart. We areunhappy, we wül go away— somewhere — if there is any money — wa will try to forget onr friend who brought ua joy and laft US sorrow. Hush, my dear — my dear.' He Eoothed and consoled hei in hia ignorance. Bat she left him und went upataira to her own Chamber. For now aha knew. Buddenly the thing that other girla woull have known from tbo very outaet, ehe gueaaed at last. Other girls talk witheach other of love: theyhear of engagements and live in that great human family whero there is continual marrying and giving in marriagB. Althea read of love, but it was of an abstract Uiing: ehe did notconnect itwithharself. But nowehe kriew that he loved her— he loved her. Ohl she feit hie love encompaasing her, aa with a garrnent, and that made of orimaon velvet aet with pearls embroidered with gold and fringed with laoe. She shivered, but not with cold, while her lover hung thia robe npon her : ehe bluahed beneath the longing of hia eyes : the touch of bis hands made her tremble : the sound of hia voice filled her heart with joy. Ha loved her. She knew now — yes, she knew at last — why she was so rest- less and ao unhappy. Lihe her fatber ehe longed for the retum of this young man— beoause he loved her. She fied to her Chamber, love himself, who does not always ehow roguish eyes, atood at the gatea with aympathetio face : with one hand he shut and barred the door ; and then, armed with a aword, he stood witbout, an outer guard or tyler, to slay any who should dare to pry iato the aecret, sacred mystery of a raaiden'a heart. CHAPTER XVII. THE MOTOB PATH. n Me. Mates remained in a oondition of the strängest bewiiiler- niciit. Day and night he was tortured with this i'uiliico of tnemory. Never beforo had ho expcrienced anything like thia wonderful forgetfulness. The solid earth sank beneathhisateps: the world waa going ronnd hiro : be feit lue losing his wits. He reine rubere d har d : he ecb bimaeif to remember with oll hia eoul and all his strongth ! ho lookeil up the oflice books of the time for anything that might help him to remember : yot he could not recall the witneesing of that will. That it should be anything but a genuine iustrument never entered bis hcad : how could anybody wrtte Ms aigoatnre so that he hhnself would not know it except for hia own ? The longer he rememberod, the less did he succoed. Than a truly dreadful thonght came into his head and wonld not be dislodged. It bas beenhinted that Mr. Backler, deceaaed, enffered in bis latter years some losa of tho finor facnlties. Elderly gentlemen who take ardent drinks from eleven in the moming tili eleven at night often do experience this loss. Kr, Eackler, in fact, had softening of the brain : and prcaented before bis death a very moomful speotacle indeed. Now Mr. Mayea Could not conceal from hiinaclf tho fact that he too only sought bis bed at night when he could hold no more. The terror that he was going in the saiae way became at laBt intolerable : he could bear it no longer. He was fain to lay his case before a doctor. The practitioner in whom he confided was a young man newly started in practice, an intelligent peraon from the London Hospital, who not only posaeaaed enough medical knowledge to pass his examination but also had some tincture of modern science. ' Ton are snfiermg,' he said after many quostions, the usa of the stethoscope, and the examination of the pulse, 'from One ofthose obscure forma ofbrain diaease wbich have reeently beeo the subject of special investigation.' ' I thought so,' Mr. Mayea groaned, ' Like Mr. Backler'« case.' ' Yon are lucky,' continued tho medical man,' that Bcienoe hu t&ckled your disorder.' ' Should I have been a gonor ? ' asked Mr. Mayes, pallid. 202 THE BELL OF ST. PA ÜL'S ' Moat certainly you wonld. Aphaaia t&kea many forma : it ia eine to maoy canses ; perhapa you have taken too many stimu- laata : or youhavebeen workedtoohard: or you have taken too little eierciae. Some men lose the power of speech altogether : others can only say half of what they wiah to say : some forget certain things and rememberothera.' ' Tbat'a me,' aaid Mr. Hayea. ' You remember, I believe, everything of importance except one particular event.' 'The moat important thing, pretty well, of any. And I can't remember — try all I know — one aingle word of it.* 'Eiactly.' The young pnetitioner laughed and rubbed hie handa as if this wae a brauch of business which he really did like. ' Tour caso growa clearer. Now, Sir, by the aid of a little diagram you will underataud exactly what is the matter with you.' He took paper and penoil and drew a little black circle. 'That'a the centre. These lines' — he drew two atraight linea radiating from the centre — ' repreaentrespectively the Ben* eory path — this with an arrow towards the circle : and the motor path — this one with the arrow from the circle. Your memory carriea the eventa of the past towarda the centre by the aenaorypath: and they start out againby the motor path. You nnderstand ? Very weil then. In your case thero ia a break- down aomewhere about here ' — he indicated the probable apot by a black dot. ' The breakdown, in fact, haa caused temporary central paralyaia.' Mr. Hayes groaned. Alreaüy he feit himself liks Mr. Backler, incapable of speech or thought. ' Fortunately, aal haveaaid, aciencehaseonqueredthe broin. You may tberefore get cured. But there is only one man fot your caae — ofcoursel moau Sir 'Wigtnore "Wimpole ofGrosvenor btreet. Yon muat go to him without delay. I will make an appointment and go with yoo.' ' Will it— will it — coat much ? ' 'Agood deall shoukl say,' replied the young man carelesaly. ' A man is generally willing to pay in order to aave himself from a madhouse or a grave.' — Mr. Mayes groaned, ' But don't be frightened, you can affori it.' ' "What will they do to me t ' ' You will perhaps be put through a courae of the electrio battery." It aoundod terrifying. The patient groaned. But he thought again of Mr. Backler and how that poor aufferer had to give up everything and didn't know what he babbled, and he made up his mind that he would, if pOBsible, avoid that fete. < THE MOTOR PATH »oj He went to the great epecialist and lai d this eise before him. corioas and interesting oase — evan wiiqne. Her« who had fbrgotten eine tbing — only one thing. YA*hy. wo forgei thousands of things daily : bnt we do not forget «von» which at the time are recognised as truly iiuportant ; w* do not forget the signing of a will disposing of an euonnous property : it was the interesting feature of the caso that the patieut had fbrgotten a thing which in tue cnlhiary couxse he would iiever have forgotten. Nobody douhted this cardinaJ point. Thereforo they resolved to tieat the pntient for partial central paralysis. First they Cut off all his drmk — yea, his beer, bia wbisky, nun, and gin — ns for the juice of the grape Mr. Mayes had never gaiod lipo» the ciip when it ia red. They made him walk swiftly for an honr beforo breakfast, an hour betöre dinner, aud auothor before toa : they put him on diel : in mockery they allowcd him hie pipo — as if a pipe can be taken without a glass I And overy day three time«, for four minutea eaoh time, they treated him to electricity, II was horrible. They put one pole at the nape of his nf ei. and the other at the base of the tongM with the intenlion of looson. iug the gl osso -pharyngeal nerve. The indignily of this Iroatmrnt Mr. Mayeabore with greaterphüosophythaiuhefearfuloostof it, which amounted to bis guineas a day. As for carrying oo busi- ness that was noxt to impossible, because, as all pationts ase, he continnally exercised himself in Unding out by tryiog to re- member if he was getting any better. He was not : after ten days of the treatmeot he was mtieh tbinner, paler of cheek, much moro hnngry and eitretnoly choleric. Bnt he atill remembered nothing of the will. IIa could stand it no longer — Ho then arosoaud aolomnly ctiraod to hia face Sir Wigmore Wimpole, M.D.. F.E.S., that great Wid Üluetrioufl Physician, and the wliole Collrgo of Physicians, and even that swoet and beauteona tuaid Soionce herseif ! be attri- buted to the great specialis t the most eordid motives and he left the place. He waa no better : the motor path oontinnod to be obstrueted, and Mr. Mayes, though he returned to bis o!d habits, Cell iuto a gentlo molancholy eipecting the futo of Mr. Backler and a aoftening. He thonght of the will and of the heiress— a girl named Allhea, daughter of Clement Indugine. Why, he knew the man by sight. Ho lived with a doi-tor closo to Bank Sido : be waB a shabby-looking man who wore a broad feit hat and a brown velvet coat and had white locks : tbat was Clement Indagino. He was brother to tbat /Eneas Indagine, junior clerk at Back- ler's, who ran away about tbirty years ngo; they turned out to be nephewa of the old man, and nobody ever knew it : and their tmcle clapped their father into the Queon'B Beuch for debt, aud 204 THE BELL 0F ST. PAÜL'S Jet him die there — bis own brotber-in-law. A bard man, Mr. Norbery: bat money must be looked after. ' Chevalier,' be said, Tve been tbinkiiig— &bout tbat will, of course.' 'Tee.' ' 1 muet do something : I must give it to a lawyer.' ? Xou remember signing tbe will ? ' ' \Vhj-, of course.' Tbe Cbevaber looked np from ander his tbick white eyebrows and Mr. Mayes changed eolour and stam- mared, ' Of courae. Didn't I teil yon that I remember all aboat it ? What have yon gut to aay to tbat, eh ? ' ? Nothing.' ? Very well then. Why the devil shonldn't I remember ? Now, then— I've got to do somothing— the busineas can't wait abont much longer. There will be a row at the Treasiiry, I BUppoae, becauae yon can't expeot the Queen to let go of that tremendou» beap anless ahe's obhged. But wbat can they do? ' ' If yon remember signing the will, what can they do 1 ' ' Chevalier, yon know Mr. Indagine. I've aeea yon Walking with bim.' 1 1 know him very well.' 1 Wbat Bort of a girl b bis daughter — tbe girl who'a going to have the money ? Do yon know her too ¥ ' ' I know her very well.' 1 Will ehe go off her licad , do yon think, when ehe hcars the ' I shonld tbink not.* 'She'etobaveit whonahecbangeahername. That is when ehe marries— ehe's only got four monthe before her. Eut perhapa ahe's got a chap afieady.' ' Mr. Oliver Lnttrel saya, I widerstand, tbat be is engaged ' Mr. Oliver Lnttrel ? Lord ! to think of that 1 Wby, it's almoat providential I He's to have the money if ehe doean't man-y. Mr. Oliver Lnttrel ! Wby he'a in my books already for a triüe — a ten-ponnd note it was — be'e got a place in tbat City College. Oliver Luttrel— -httle black-haired chap — ngly httle chap— so he's going to marry her, ia he ? ' ' He saya bo,' ' Then he'll get a quarter of a milbon with, or witbotit, a wife, unless shemarries someone eise in the meantime. Lucky beggar — eh, Chevalier 1 ' ' I believe,' said the Chevalier softly, ' that in tbe long tun he will conBider himsclf fortunate indeed.' ' You baven't let on, outaide ? ' ' I have told no one.' 1 Oood. Hold your tongue a bit longer. And hark ye, THE MOTOR PATH 805 Chevah'er,if Ican't get somethingmoTe than thejobof ma^aging the Batate, I'm hanfred if anybody sho.ll. And if I get what I want it shall be the best day'a work you ever did to find that Will — remember that now.' First of all, be thonght ho ought to call npon Mr. Clement Indagine. Crafty nien always like to fcel their way ( fully. He did po. Ho called npon the Foet in the moming, aetunlly disturbing hüll at his best time. He was takcu to the Poet's study, where he sat before his table, covered with precious poema in manuacript. Thewhite-hairedbardlookedup, astonished. In the preaence of so many books — nothing atrikes the vulgär mind with more awe than a room filled with booka — and that highly auperior face whioh was liftad to groet him> Mr. May es feit small. ' I have made bold,' he Haid, ' to call — to call — ' Here the diffieulty of openins tbe subject presented itsclf for the first ' Yon hare come, I suppoae, in referenee to my works,' said the Poet kindly. 'Works? I didn't know yon had any Works,' said Mr. May es. 1 My poema. If yon represent any Firm of Pnbliahers I fear that your visit is prämature. My arrangements are not yet deeided. My new volunie, it ia truo. is ntsurly ready, but I must conault with Menda before entrusting thern to the care of any Firm.' ' Poema 1 ' asked Mr. May es, who know nothing of any ' My poems,' repeated Mr. Indagine. 'Tou are, I pre- 'Lord love you, Mr. Indagine, don't yon know me? Boy and man I've beoo in these parte for forty years and I remember you for thirty, and your brother I remember too.' ' Who are yon, Sir? ' the poet aßked with a sudden change ofmanner. 'Who are you und ulmt do you want with me ? why do yon diaturb me at this hour ? ' ' My name is Joseph Muyea — and I am aueeessor to Mr. S. Norbery, Deeeaaed.' Clement Indagine pushed back his chair. ' I have nothing at all 10 do with tbe late Mr. Norbery, or with bis aftaira,' he said hastily. 'I refuse to talk about Mr. Norbery.' 1 Excnae me, Sir. One rnomeat I whioh you will not regret. Yon are his nsphew, Sir. ihough tliat ia not generally known. II I had known it, when he died, I ahould have stepped round in a friendly way to let yon know. Ab it was, you didn't even follow ao6 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S when ha was buried, you've never claimed the property, thougb. there was no will, anayou were the heir-at-law.' ' I have nothing to do with Mr. Norbery, I teil you.' 'Why, Bir, really now — it's only a day or two since I formd out that yon wore his nephew — surely you must have heard that he left no Will— that is to say, that he waa thought to have left Co Will — and that yon were the heir to all of it.' ' I teil yon again, Sir, that I have nothing to do with that man 's money.' ' A quarter of a million if it ts a penny. And yet yon never claimed it. Never claimed ib. Why there ian't another man in the World — never claimed iE 1 And now the Queen'a got it, that'a all. I auppose you know that mueh.' 1 Understand ine, Sir,' Mr. Indagine roae, tall and command- ing, hia white loeka flowing bebind. ' Let there be no misunder. etanding poaaiblo. Unilit nn tirenmstaueeB whatever could I etep forward to claim that fortune. Never would I avknowledg« myaelf to be the nephew of a man who cansed niy father — hia own brother-in-law— to die in a debtors* pi-ison.' 'Not even if a Will were found leaving it all to you?' ' Under no coneeivable CLrcumstances, Sir.' 1 A quarter of a million 1' Mr. Maves repeated, feebly, ' I have apoken, Sir. This interview hü latttä ion^ enough. Dood moruing to you.' He turned away and aat down at hia table, But Mr. Mayca lingered. 'Onemoment. Don't ba in a hnrry — no good to be in a hnrry. You've got a danghter, Misa Althea Indagine ' 'What haa my danghter got to do with you, Sir?' Mr. Indagine asked fiercely. ' If you will not be rieh yonraelf, you would not mind her being rieh, I suppoae ? ' ' What do you mean by that ? ' ' Buppose, I aay auppose '— hcre Mr. Mayea tappecl bis left foreünger with hia right foreiinger, aa ho had Reen them do it on the &tage of llie Surrey. ' Snpposo there waa a Will found after all, and auppoae yonr daughter was to banofit — largely, mind— -cnormously ' — he incead uiit both his arma with ontaugbt eloquence — ' by that Will, you wouldn't— you couldn't — stand in her way.' Mr. Iudagine was not a man of the world, he had no reeent knowledge of craft andsubtlety,but these qunliliea were uiarked BO atrongly upon the man'a face : they lay so opeo to view in hia eyes: they were shown bo clflarly in his Attitüde — lliat a child would have understood thein. He sat down and simled and orosaed hia lega. ,' he said, 'it waa not only in order to ask me why I de MX THE MOTOR PATJi not claim that fortune that yon have coma hera. What have ygu to say more?' ' Why,' Mr. Mayes replied boareely, ' if such a 'Will was to be found, and I was to find it, wbat ahare ahould I get out of the proceeds ? Mind — tbe man wbo found tha Will ? ' ' Wbat ehare ? ' ' What commiaaion— if yon like it better put that woy ? I uhould be content to tote ton per ccnt. — a mere bttle ten per cent. in a Quarter of a Million — a 2ea-bite — yon wouldn't 80 muoh aa feel it — ten per cent.' ' Let na speak more plainly. Without any aupposea, yon mean to teil me that you have discovered a Will by which Mr. Norbery has left hia fortuno to my daughter. Very well, in the name of ray daughtor, I teil you that you may tear up that Will.' 'I only said — suppose.' ' And in the name of my daughter, I teil you that yon will receive no conimiesion of tea per cent., or anytbing eise per 'Tery well, gov'nor ' — he replied, sullenly. 'When the commission is agreed to, and you've left off talking nonsense, we flball und erstand one another p'raps.' 'Sir ' Mr. Indagine began wrathfuJly. ' Stop a minute,' Mr. Mayes baterrupted. ' Stop ft minute. Don't say wbat yoa were going to say. It never doea any good to get in a rage. Suppose you and the old man didn't quite bit it off. Bless your sonl ; I know the story of tho Qneen's Eeneh, and what the old man did. He wae a hard nnt to crack : be really waa. But there is tbe younglady. You wouldn't die and have herpoor, wonldyou? Fromwhat Iknowof house property, Sir, speaking respectiully, Ishouldn'tsny yours wasworthwuch, Sbe'll marry, perhaps. AH tbe more reason ' ' Bhe will continue in such a matter to be ruled by me.* ' And ahe may have cbildren. Would you like to feel that yonr grandchiltlren wore growing up paupera ? ' ' Sir,' Mr. Indagine rose and spoke with great digtiity. ' One ward. Understand me plainly. Never— never with my cou- eent, shall a peuny of Mr. Norbery's il' -Rotten gains go to en- ricb my cbild or my possible gram! «hin Iren. Never aball my daughter, if auch a Will esists, seek to benefit by it. Never, with my will." 1 It'a awkward,' said Mr. Mayes. ' Well— T've Said what I came to say. Eut tbe young lady's ehap will have as big a aay as yon, Mister, coine to her gelbiug married. If you'd like to have another talk, you know where to und me. Successor to 8. Norbery, your own uncle. In tbe old house.' On leaving the house be did not retnrn to hia offico bnt ha walked acrosa Southwark Bridge into the City, and directed hia 208 THE BELL OF ST. PAUDS Steps towards the laboratory, where the most fortunate of all young fianoös was to be found in the morning. He did not, as with Mr. Indagine, feel his way. The humblest money-lender would have a better knowledge of mankind. He exposed the whole case with a frankness worthy of the greatest statesman. He put the thing nakedly. Do ut d$s — he would have said, bat he nad not so mach Latin. * There,' he said, summing up. * Now you know all, Mr. LuttreL The Will is in my hands. Nobody knows about it, except myselfc' This he said stoutly, such was his faith in the word of the Chevalier, * And if you and me oan't come to terms, nobody shalL' 'This is very amazing,' said Oliver. 'That Mr. Norbery should leave his property to me — unless — but the young lady is engaged to me. This is a most unexpeoted oireumstance.' His oheek burned and he kept his eyes down and fumbled among the papers on the table. His hands trembled too; all those Symptoms of agitation are common when one sud- denly hears that one has inherited a largo fortune. Every one of my readers will reoognise the signs from personal ex- perience. * I am a man of business, Mr. LuttreL That's what I am.' | Surely, surely. But, about the WilL Is it not an extra- ordinary oireumstance that it should have esoaped notice unidl now ? Are you quite sure — for instance — that it is a genuine dooument ? ' 1 Well, TU swear to the signatures if that is what you mean by genuine.* * You remember, in fact, signing it ? ' 1 Certainly. Why not ? Why shouldn't I remember sign- ing? 1 *Why not, indeed?' Oliver looked up smiling softly. 1 That settles the thing, even if the Will should be disputed — but if you remember, and sinee you've got nothing to gain by it • ' Hold hard, there,' said Mr. Mayes. * Very well, then, nothing under the provisions of the WilL Whatever private arrangements may be made. You are, there- fore, an independent witness.' ' And the sole surviving Trustee. 9 * Quite so-— the Trustee. I suppose the management of the Estate would give you a vast deal of trouble.' Mr. Mayes smiled. ' Well, Mr. Luttrel, don't let us beat about the bush. The young lady is engaged to you. If ehe marries you at onoe the xnoney is hers — that is, it's yours — beeause the Married Woman's Pxoperty Act may say what it likes but it can't get rid of the THE MOTOR PATH ioy husband. Tf ehe doean't niarry you liefere the end of the year, the money ia all yours." ' Exactly. It is a aitnation — I eonfesa — wbich ia astounding. Still — the fortano will be as j'on say, inine, anyway — mioe.' ' If I chooae to let you have it,' aaidMr. Hayea. 1 Sabjeet to that correction — no doubt' ' You will give me an andertaking to make over to me ten percent. of thewhole fortune — whatever it is, aa soonaa you get it — either for youraelf ot yoar wife. Nothing before. I don't ask it. As soon as you get it.' * Ye — yes,' eaid Oliver, with the air of ono who eonsiders only how to yield gracefully. 'It is a great slice out of the whole: bat aa otherwise we ahtmld gt>t nolliing and we are very poor — and — in ahoit, Mi. Mayca, I agree. I will sign auch an agreement as aoon as you l&e. Nothing before the eatate ia mine, or iny wife'e. Ten per cent. afterwarda.' Mr. Mayes henved a deep and heartfelt aigh. When the heart ia tonched auch a aigh ia very real. ' Thie will be a good day'a work for both of na,' he aaid. ' Wien ia it going to oome off, Mr. Luttrel 1 When will the knot lie tied 1 ' ' The day is not yet fbed. I snppose in three or four montha. There ia no neod to wait, bat one nuust not hurry a young lady.' 'No, I wiah. it was to-morrow. 3 wiah the belle of St. George's were ringing aa they ahoald for auch an heiteaH aadl oould aee you Walking up the aide with her in white/ Olivor laaghed. 'I wiah I were talring that little promenade, Mr. Mayes, in such excellent Company. However, it ia all settled. Well, we may congratulate each other, I think.' ' We may, You will be a rieh man and I sball be eom- fortable — very warm and nomfoitablo. It's only common justice, too. I, who helped the ald mau to make hia money, should, by rights, get some of it. 3t's only fair.' ' Quite fair, I think, ijaite fair. Meantime, for a man who is going to beso rieh, I am ridiculously poor. You have already advauced me a little ioan, Mr. Mayes — ten pounda, for whieh you are to get nfteen.' 'I'illend youiuore,' he broke in eagorly, 'I'll lern! you all Eia want — in reason — on the turne terms. A young gentleman to you, with a quarter of a million Coming in, ought not to be hard up for a pound or two.' ' Very well. Make it a hundred,' said Oliver, ' A hundred more on the tarne terma. Two handred if you like. Three Cthen,' he «dded, watohing tue money -lendor's face, tfayea laaghed. Thia waa busmeas woith having. ad better. Observe that an ordinary money- len der 2io THE BELL 0F ST. PAÜVS would have hesitated. Young men die aa well as old men: marriages ars broken off: not oven tho husband haa the dis- Position of his wife's money : the cup, füll of sparkling wine, is sometiraes daahad from the lips : nothing Imnian ia seciira without eecurity : this young gentleman offered no Becurity. Tet where our hopes he there we most easüy deceive onraelvea : Mr. MayeB aaw hia way bo clearly to make this prodigious coup that he jnmped at the smaller oflbr. Tbere was this diflereace between Mr. Norbery and hia snccesBor, that the former never jumped. ' My dear air, 1 he said, * I have not the moncy mysolf,' hia predeoessor always useil that formnla. ' But I cau get it for you. The waot of a httle ready money really niust not stand in your way — three hnndred I tbink you seid. Come over to iny plaae this evening and you shall receive and sign.' ' Harry,' said Oliver sorne-what about iniilniglit, ' is it safe 7 do you tbinlr it ia quite safe ? ' ' My dear boy, it is absolufcely safe. Borrow all you ean get meantime, and we'll go halveB. I'm only sorry — I really am — that »e had the girl in it at all. Why didn't we put your name all alone ? You've done pretty well, however. The girl don't like you. What does that matter if there'a nobody eise in the way? All the better, if she woa't marry you. Audi think, dear boy, that we really ara going to have a fine old CHAPTBR XVin. PLE1T STREET EEY1SITED. 'Büt you promised to go back to the world,' Althea iasisted, 1 you promised Mr. Waller.' ' Yes, yee,' her father replied impatienüy. ' But he was to go witb. me. That was understood. He was to take me. You forget, Althea, that my return to theoldhauntBüiay beawkward to many, and will certainly be an eliV-rt to myself. I sliall want eupport. How do I know, for instante, whst kind of reoeption. I shall have ? I left them amidst their gibes ; I go back to them in the thumph of assured sucecss — How will they receive that ? ' ' Well but, dear,' Althea laid her harnls lipon Mb Shoulders. ' Consider, it is thirty years ago. You are not old, and you never shall bo old, though your hair is white. But oonsider, thirty yeara ago. That is a lang time. You were only a httle over thirty, yourself. And — you have often told me so — you weiro wie of the youngest men of tlie set.' presai read undei FLEET STREET REVISITED Yea, they were mostly older than myself. I should lue to »ee them all agaln — Yea, my dcar, they were all oldcr than lnyself. Dickens was forty-five : Tbackeray was about the sawe age : John Oxenford, Clii'.il. u li Bftde, who wrote, I remember, a charrning book ealled " Peg WofEngton," and waa an Oxford man; John Förster, Dicl.i iu'p fri. n.l ; Shirley Brooks; Toni Taylor— they were all over forty. William Jerdan was over aeventy and so was Lei^h Hunt. Motickton Milnes — he was a Yorkshire country gentlcinnn and one saw bim Beidom — was over fifty : ao was Hamsun Ainsworth : and Douglas Jerrold was fifty-two or more — I think I heard somewkere or aomehow — that he died about that time.' 1 Well, dear, but think. They muat now all be over seventy, ?ome of them even eighty. If they are living, they oan hardly meet aa they used to do whtn they were younger men. And mitny öf them, in the nature of thinga, must be dead.' 1 if they are dead they have left succesaora. The eacred lamp is always handed down.' ' But not the rnemory of injustice. Whose was the hand that wrote that crnel artiele upon your book ? ' ' I know not. That is, I suspeet — I have always suspcetcd. He nsed to sit in the corner, eilent, and glowered with enviona eyeB. A small creature who had written poetry and failed.' ' Was it one of those whom yau have mentioaed ? ' 1 Surely not, sniely not. They were the leaders in the World of letters ; they would seorn an anonyinoua attaek — a Stab in the back. Yet their tongues could be bitter.' ' Then, dear, why are you a&aid to go among them ? ' 'Youdon't nndeiBtand, Althea. I am not afraid — not the least afraid. Ünly I fccl a little awkwardness about the position of these old friends whert they see me back again.' Althea held her fathor'a works in the highestposaiblerespect. But ehe could not believe that a einöle venoinous attaek upon them would be remembered after all these years. ' If I were you,' Bhe aaid, ' I would go boldly back and take my place amimg them. They meet in taverns, do they not ? A tavern is open to all the world.' Her father shook his head. With the moral snpport of bis young Australiaii Www 1 In- k-U lio would have gone anywhere — without him he waa afraid. Call him not a coward. The men who sat at aupper in the duys when siippers were still ordered and eaten ; tho men ofthe pen, among whom were aometimea Been the leaders in tbe literary mill ; habitually employed towardseach other plainnesa of 6|>eech. frankness, freedom ofei- presaion, and, in fact, a license quite fraternal. Those who have read how Dougbc Jetrold Mäuoed bis opponents to silenco understand the colossal impudenca which formed the staple wit an THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S of these rinniom. At no time diu this poet, even when he was young and fiery, quite appreciate jokea made on his sacred oalling. At the age of aixty and aller bis long aeclusion he could not endure even to think of them. ' At what time du they aaeemble 9 ' asked Althea. ' They generally dine at eis, and they may be found at the " Cock," or the "Cheshiro Checac," ur the "Rainbow," at any hoiu between ihon and tnidnight. SometimeB there are two or three only ; Bometimes thera are a dozen.' 'Well, dear, let na go, you and I togethec, not to one ol Iheir meetingB, but just to see the places where they meet. It was a promiae of- — of Mr. W&ller's — to take me to inany p)acea. He has forgotten his proniisa,' ehe Bighed. ' You and I will go together. First Jon akall show me your old haunts : that will be a beginning of your return to the world of letters : theo we will go to the Weat End and see the world of fashion. Falber, the pii.st is done with. Mr. Waller has killed the past — for me as well aa for yon. We muat make somehow — I know not how — a new beginning.' Since the remarkable proofs of his great fame the poet had no other desire than to return to the world. Yot the thought had become a bugbear. How ahould he return ? Whither sbould go ? In which way ahould he begin? As for money, he had no anxietiea. Another volume was nearly ready. Tom Moore got 5,000 j. for ' Lalla Bookh '— why should not he get aa much aa Tom Moore ? Aa in everything eise, the firat step was the trouble. The time was come wheii he really must go back to the world. He said this to himself every day. Likeallself-oonacioua Dien he thought a great deal about the world. It was the world which had driven bim into eiile : it was the World which he puttiahed by his long Buenos : the world again, with teara of contrition, waa now calling him back and crying for forgivenees : he waa going to grant a general amneaty and to bestow upon ? the pardoned world the priceless gift of another volume. The world— it certainly ia always too much with us — is an elaatin phrase. It means thoae whose opiniona we are likely to hear : it meana either the joyful deriaion or the green envy of on* enemies : either the compaaaion or the admiration of our friends. To Bisroarek it meana tbe whole masa — not ao very great after all — of educated hunaanity : to a young poet it meana the little circle of hia own acquaintance. Ent, in hie mind'a eye that little circle awella and growa evcr widening tili it reaches the circtimference of the round eaxthand is in diameter nothingless than the great Equator itself. But the time had now come when he cotild no longer remain in obücui'ity. The World recailed hiin 1 The Saturday Review I FLEET STREET REVISITED 213 •ßked who waa Clement Indagine, where he lived and when he diüd : Farne was flying round the globe, was proclaiming hia uame and aounding hia glory fruui far Cathay to Eldorado. It was maddening to ait in a corner hidden »WM and hear nothing of all thia raeket. Farne never hovera over Bank Side. Besidca there is such a deafening noise from the hammer in the Work« that one could not hear her trampet even if it were & ateam Instrument, Fame's trumpet of the rature. ' My dear.'Tie said fretfully, ' it ia intolerable. They tali o( me : they read me : they quoto me : and I hear nothing of it ftt all. I might as well be as forgotten and neglected as I thought. What is the worth of suceess unless it becomes known ? ' 'Then, father,' Said Althea, ' go back.' But he hesitatod. He waa nfraid. Ab for himaelf, he knew that he was ehanged. Thirty year» ago he resembled tho portrait over the mantelshelf : perhaps not quite so gallant in his bearing : perhaps with not quite euch an eleetric Üaah in his oyo : but a proper young man, slirn and tall with waving loeka. He waa ehanged, yet he could not chooee but think that the other men reiuained untouehed by Time as when he left them. This is out way. T wen ty— thirty yeara pass, it is half a lifetime— nay, for those who work it is tliree- fourths of a lifetinie : we meet sgain the young follow from whom we parted laughing, where our ways diverged. Heavens I he is fifty : he is bald ; he is fat ; he laugha no longer ; be hae become stupid. We know that we ourselvea have ehanged, but to think that others Bhould have ehanged as well ! He conaented at length, but -with much miagiving, to the compromise propoaed. He woublgo with Althea, and ahow her the old haunts. If not actually a return to the werld, the thing would wear its semblance. They atarted — one of them in nervous trepidation — on thia eventful expedition, in the morning about noon, the weather being fme and the wind in the South. Bank Side presented no oppearonce of eicitement or even of interest— probably becauee the papers had not announced tho fact. The Poet was dres&ed in bis brown velvet jacket, now pretty old, and a broad feit hat; with thase oids and hia long white locks hia make-up was picturesque. The girl with bim in her light summer frock and hat, who leoked as if ehe had just come op from the country, the air of whith must have given her ao sweet and fresh a colour, who walked with ao firm a step and was so atraight and tall, helped to make a atriking group oi two— Grandfather and Grandchild, no donbt, come up fiom tha oountry to aee the sighls of London bind. From St. Paul's to the Tower, Althea knew the City : she knew the winding courta, the little dingy ehurchy&rda built THE BELL OF ST. PAULS round by warebouaea, their dead as clean forgotten and out of miml aa any poor sailor wrapped in a haumiork und dropped into the deep sea : tue Clmichea, each one with ita aneient hiatory, hidden away among tho back Btreets — but ahe knewthe City of Sunday, or, at most, of Saturday afternoons. The City in Ml flow of businesa ehe knew not. West of St. Panl'a ehe know nothing. Fleet Street was in her niind the nreeting- place of the poets: the Strand was a noble line of aneient In any other place than th e City of London, and at any other time than the boui's of buaineaa, this pair would bave been re- inarkable. At noon, buivevcr, ih.ire is no time to look at any thing — unlesa it be a horae 'down,' which would draw tho eyea of a financier about to net a million. The Emperor of China might walk along Cheapside, splendid in ailk and umbrella : or Prince ISiamarck, burly, trampling and ahormg the lesser folk ontof hia way, like Baaträuel on bis great mitre ; or the Pope of Bome with hia beautiful triple crown; or even Helen of Troy, without exeiting any attention, or caiising any reniark in the hours of businesa. In the evening, when tho morchanta aro going to their railway etations, and the clerks are ntreaming homewarda, it is difl'erent: then their nikida aro unoecupied, and their eyes are free to wander : then, a lovely sliepherrtesH Walking down Cheapside becouiea aware of the great civic heart, how it beata; and of the great civic eyes, how they boani with adiniration and praiae of beauty. ' Where are we ? \Yhat haB been done here 1 ' aaid the poet, looking at the great new etreet cnlled after the Queen. ' I re- member a labyrinth of narrow atreeta — I have wandered among them wben I was a boy. Where are they 1 ' The traveller who returns to hia native town after matiy yeara ia eitlier Ktruck with the meanneaa and poverty of the place, or helaments the losa uf the old houaes, and the erection of the new ataring mansiona in their place. Mr. Indagine shook hia haad reinem bering what had been. Indeed there have been niany lossea of late yeara in the City botween Manaion House and Blackfriars, They atood at lnat on tho atepa of St. Panl'a, and looked down upon the crowd of Ludgate Hill . ' Thua I atood,' aaid tho Poet, ' mora than thirty yeara ago, It waa midnight, but the streeta were orowded because the City was jllununatcd for the Peaee. More than thirty yeara ago — I went home to my lodgioga — they were in Fe&thexitona Buildings, Holbom — and began the lines — you ramember them, Althea — they are in zay firat etyle. Ofi — c FLEET STREET REVISITED M be pr. I wonder the Sahirdntj Review faüed toremark thoselioes. ne they have slwaya seemed to poasoss a certain delicaey of Beotnnent — eh ? — a aubtle fragrance — the thought ia au<;gested — only tboae of like mind woul d catch it— there is a whisper in it — a mnrmur of midnight — BOmething ethereal caught from the moon riding in tlie heavens and the jewelled aky.' ' I remembor them very well, ' said Althea. ' They aro beau. tiful lines.' 1 My dear,' ho said, preasing her arm — ' I have one reader at least who can ecb and feel the soul of the Poet. Look, whnt ia that dreadful thing they have built acroas Ludgate Hill ? Ia it a gate — another gate of Lud, in place of the old one, but lower down ? ' At that monieat a train rambted ßlowly over the bridge. * It ia a railway bridge 1 Most horrible I ' He belongcd to the time when it was thought testhetia to abuae the railway. They descended the ateps. 'Let us pay a visit to the Bow,' he eaid; 'it is long ainca my eyes were gladdeucd with the eight of the only trade He lad the way throngh a nnjrow passage into that remark- ablo thoroughfare known as Paternoster Bow. ' Ha I ' he eaid, looking round him with a sigh of satiafaction. ' Thja is the (inest atreet in London. I tbink there cannot be a finer street in the whole world. The booka come out of this atreet — the old books and the ne~w booka I the strewn that never fails — my dear, I think now that I did wrong wbon I left the world to live on Bank Side with your uncle— I should hava taken a lodging in Little Britain and walked every day in Pater- There were carte in the narrow old street blocking np the road in order to reeeive and diachsrgetheirparcelsandbundles: boya carried booka on their ahouldera : porters wheeled barrowa füll of booka : thoae who walked in the street aeemed to have — but this may be mere fanoy — a more thonghtral air — a nobler carriage than those who walked in Cheapaide closo by. ' I tbink I have never told youbefore, Althea,' aaidMr. Inda- gine, looking wistfully up and down the street, ' that I began my active liie bere. If you write my biography, child, remem- ber that when I left achool at fourteyn I was foriutiate enough to get a place as junior ck-rk in Paternoster Row ainong tlia books which I loved even then — I left the Bow when the littla property feil in — -all that was left — whieh my father's creditora could not seize — on which we hjive lived all these years. Per- hapa I should have been a happier man now had I continued in the House — had I never wo-oed the Muse. I might bavo been long sirtee the Head of a Department : a ohief clerk : u principal Aecouutant : perhapa even a partner." si6 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S So, after many years, when the man retumed, the first thing he did was to visit the place where he hail apent hie youth. He alwaya doea it. ' The Chapter Coffee Houae was still standing in those dayfl,' he Baid. ' Many a chop and cup of coffee have I had there. It onght never to have beeu closed. It was « national momiment. Bat they ahnt it up before I went ont ofthe world. Ohl The place in füll of hiatory : it is hannted by the poets of the last centory. Hera was the sign of the SMp and the Black Swan— aee, the honse still flouriehes. And here was formerly the ' BibJe and Crown,' but they have removed that westwards. The world of bookal I used to coino here overy morning at nine : the evening I Bpent with my father in the Priaon — in the Prison — ' he paused a moment, ' in the Debtors' Prison,' he repeated with an effort. ' Well — let ns forget tbat time. Bnt the sight of Paternoster Kow bring» it back. Come, my dear. The years betwoon Mte forgotten— I was a boy again, happy among the bookB all day, though I neither wrote them nor read them, and in the evening in tho Prison — Come, dear, come.' He was already changed. The memory of the past softened bis face r he had lost his fretful look. He led her down the Euw to the end where wooden gates stood at the end of a broad court, ' My dear, it is Amen Corner,' he Baid. 'Let nslook in. I remember Coming here day after day, thinking how quiet and happy rnust be tbose who lived in this CloiBter. To me whose childhood had beert apent in a noisy Debtors' Prison, quiet seema the thing niost to be desired.' He opened the gate and led the way into the place : there ie a row of quiet-looking housea and then one turna into a broad coart covered with gronnd ivy instead of grase, but with a few flower beds and treea and red-gabled buildings with an archway in red brick like a College. 1 They have altered the buildings eince my time,' he aaid, 1 but they have not destroyed the quiet of the place. There is no other place like it in the City : not even Sion College, or Lord Durby's Palace, whieh they toraed into the Heraids' College. My dear,' he said, < it is so long since I remembered the old days — I came here for the quiiet, to dream of being a Poet : I sat in the Chapter Coffee Herne my beart beating only to think that Goldsmith had sat there before me, perhaps on that very bench. And sometimes one nn.w an author— Alas I one can but once be young. Come, my dear.' He led her into the narrow street and so to Ludgate Hill, where the atream of Ufe runs up and down without cessa- ' Fleet Street at last ! ' he eried, lifting his head and looking tun FLEET STREET REVISITED 217 round him. ' We are in Fleet Street I It ia too early yet für any of the poefcs and novelists: yet if we should happen upon any of them— bot would thay know mo ? And now my old friends must all be eighty years of age— eighty years of age t ' he suddenly realised what this rnight mean. ' Oh, Althea 1 Can thare be a oircle of old, old men — eighty years of age ? sitting and laughing as they nsed to alt and laujrh over pimeh and port '? No— no— it is impoBsiblB.' But he continued to look about him curiouEly as if it were quite on tlie cards that he might meet Dickens, Thackeray, and Douglas Jerrold marching arm in arm togcth er, jovial and hearfcy Blill, though eighty years ofage. 'My dear,' he said, ' tliis is a streeL of Taverns, all sacrod to tha memory of England's Worthies. There are the Cock, the Cheahire Cheeae, tlie Kainbow, the Mitre, Diok'a — once thera was the Devil as well, but they pulled it down a hundred years ago. Cruel I To destroy the Apollo Chamber, the Kingdom of Ben Jonson I Hera we dined and supped aud drank and talked. Althea, I am glad we came — I am very glad we came.' All day long Fleet Street is crowded, and during a good part of the night and very early in the morning it is astir. In the inorning and in tha evening there ia the atream of City men : in the daytimeare tha journaliste, theprintera, the sportingmen, and at the western end, the barristera. At tlie dinner-hour the Printers stand about in crowils : during tha afternoon the journalists appear : more men know each other in this, than in. any other atreet of London : it ia a clubbable and aocial strcet: more men are employed in this street and its Courts than in any other : the grcat Dadies beloug to thia street ; all the country papers have ofhces hsre : hundxeds of Organs, Journals, trade cii'culm-s, magazines and ahaata of all ktnda, are publiahed here and printed in the eourts that lead out of it, These papers which are always Coming out on thair appointed day and being distributed with zeal, would by themselves keep the street lively without the aid of tha printers. Fourteen thousand busy pens are flying over the paper all day long to supply these hungry shaeta which go in white and come out black; and use up every day so many milea of written lines ; and kapp boüing euch a hoat of deaerving pots. The returned esile looked about him eurioualy. ' It is more crowded than it was,' he said, ' and there are many changes in the houses. In my time there were none of these great buildings — I wonder if any of my old friends will recogniae me, but in this crowd one passes undistinguished. And I see none like them.' But there is a terrible crowd:,' aaid Althea, "These people ?urely are not all poetB and wits.' ' Hardly, my dear. Perhaps it is some special 01 2t8 THE BELL OF ST. PÄUL'S they cannot certainly all be engaged in tbe pursuit of letters, Yet look, every houae seems the offloa of aoine paper or magazine, Can the Journals have innltiplied ? ' They were not exaatly poets and wita — the gcntlemen who crowded together on the pavementE, smoking pipea, talking, laughing, or gathering round the sporting papera. They were, however, the gentlenien who print tlie glonona works of the poeta and the wita : and it was their dinner bour, which explained the crowded condition of the atreet. And theo a very remarkable thing happened. No one conld have expected it, and thoagb !.ln- memory of it will alwaya be a eweet morse) for the Poet, the advenUire itaelf somewhat dis- concerted him at the time. We are bo eeldooi proparod for the unexpected. They were moving slowly throngh tbe orowd, the Poet looking about bim to remember the old placos which have been ao greatly altered in tbirty years. Tbe man on the pavement civilly made room for them as thoy passed and closed in behind them, talking quickly and with every sign of excitement and intereat, but paying no attention to thia pair, or to any other paasengers who did not belong to theniselvea. ' Althea,' her fatber whispered willi agitation, 'I am recog- nised I hush, make no sign, let us bebave as if we had not He raiaed his bead and atrnightened hia back and bis face aasumed all the aolomnlty of a coneciciitkms mute. Änd then Althea heard from a gronp on the other aide of the street, thia reniarkable uttaran.ee — ' Three to two on the Poet 1 ? 6he looked round and obaerved that althongh they permitted them sei ve b such fiteedomofapcochconcernmgthoEiila Returned, the Speakers, who were common -looking men talking together with animation, had the politenesB to refrain from gazing upon her fatber. And ehe marvelled greatly becauae — how ahould they know him ? ' Three to two on tba Poet ! ' — What could that mean ? And yet not even to look after brm 1 At thia point the orowd grew thicker, and as the idlers of the dinner -hour paaaed right and left to let them paaa — thia pair, so strangely unlike the current Btreatn of Fleet Street people, they stared at them with wondering eyea. ' Althea,' the poet whispered, ? what do they mean ? traly I cannot Widerstand it— How ahould they know me ? Should I take off my bat to them 1 They mean well. But let Tis take no notice — that is best. It is pleaaant, however, to reeeive these marks of respeet. They wonld apeak to me if they dared. Perhapa if I were to shake handa with one of them — but no — no.' ~REET REV1SITED arg He stopped st Bolt Court. ' Let na turn down here und oscape ou ' So— they do not come after üb. Tbat is polite of them. Do yan know, my dear, that I have nevor betöre been followod und mobbed ? It is a pleasant esperienoo wbeu one feels that it is doaerved on tha one band and a aincere exprcssion of adiniration on the ollier. This is Bolt Court, Dr. Johnson lived bere — that ia the aite of his house, it was burned about sixty years ago. And bere— hera — ia the fanioua " Cheshire Cheeae." I wonder if there are in it any — but it is too early. They would not begin to assemble before fivo at earlieat. Upatairs there is a rootn whcre there bas been despatched mauy a ruuip and dozen. Jjflt us peep in.' He pushed open the doors and loolfed in. A noi»y groirp were gathored about the Bar di-hikin» and talking. They stupppd, astonished for a moinent, at the sight of the old man and the girl ; but only for a moment. Thon they went on with their iliscussion, and one of them smote iiis left palm with liia rigbl fiet, and cried aloud ' The Poet I Tlie Poet l'or a pony I ' Mr. Indagine took off bis feit hat and bowed low. ' Gentle- inea,' he said, 'tbe Poet thanks you,' and retired, leaving the little circle at the Bar in a eondithm of so mueh eonfuaion that they were fain to finisli their drinks and take one more. Some, indeed, could not get over the tbing for the whole day and diseussed it at tha Bar imtil the utmoat limit of time allowed by the law. ' These gentlomon,' said the cause of their surpriao, re- turoing to 1'leet Street, ' roust be some of the lesser lighta. I fear that tbe habit of chinkiny, ftbioh fonnerly prevailod too much— I muat own that — aniong the literary brotherhood, bas not yet been abandoned, Poor Kit Miu'lowo lives againinevery geoeration.' He continued the walk, his chin in the air, hia eheek fluabed, his eyes bright. He had aetually — a tbing he bad never ex- peeted — received public recognition in the open street 1 How- ever, he continued as if nothing unnsnal had oeomTed, pointing out the glories of tbe etreet, which are mostly of oonyivial aeeociations. 1 The Mitre,' he said, ' is down that Court. It was Johnson'B favourite tavern; that is Groom's, the old coffee- house — roany a cup of eoffee have I bad at Groom's. Nest to it is the Itain - bow, one of the oldest houses in London. Their port uaed to be worth aomething — I wonder if there ia any of the old Btuflf left. Dick's is bidden away in that Court opposite : we nsed to dine at Dick's a good deal: they cluirfrtd von si^hteenpence, I remember, and you helped youraelf off the Joint. And here — ? THE BELL OF ST. PAULS höre — where ia it? I caa't see it anywhere — can we have pasaed it ? ' 1 Whatia it?' ' The Cock, my dear, The moat famoua tavera of all. Where m it be ? ' He retraced hia atepa to look for it. Alea ! The Cock wag ' My dear,' he said, ' I fear that there have beeil more changes than I thought. If the Cock has gono, wliither do tho wita resort ? Good Heavena I The Tavem aung by Tennyaon I It ahould ba as famoua asthe Mermaid, or the Bevit. Evorybody otheCock. Everynigbt there was agathering from diliner or eis, to eupper after the theatre. Where do they go ! A boy ran paat them with an armful of papers, ahouting, ' The Great Fight 1 Winner ! Winner I Wmner ! ' The peoplo anatching and eagerly tearing them open. And as they read there waa a confuaed murrour — 'The Poet I The Poet I The Poet I ' And aome ahouted ' Hooray 1 The Poet wina ! • 'Let na go, Althea," said the Bard haatily. 'Thia demon- et ratio« ia too much.' He took off hia hat and walied bare- headod with humid eyea and fluahed cheeks, lowing to right and left along the crowd which made way for him. Strange to Bay, they hardly looked at him. Bat they murmured or they shouted : they iaughed or they groaned : they dancad or they hung their heads, and they aaid, aung, shouted, and whiapered, 1 The Poet I The Poet wina ! The Poet I ' 1 Why ? ' asked Althoa in the evening — ' why did they Bay, " Three to two on the Poet " 1 ' ' I hardly know, my dear. No doubt you obaerved that they were mostly people of little cultnre — it is aome atreet exprcsaion, meaning applauee or admiration. I remember thore was gene- rally eome populär cry, the utterance of which was acceptcd in place of wit. Such, for inatance, aa " Who's your batter ? " " All round my hat," " Procoeil, Edward," " Jump Jim Crow " or " Pop goea the weasel," " Hot for Joe," with others mora meaninglesa still. Mydear, in the vulgär specch theae phrasea mean nothing. It is aufficieat for ua that they have recog- niaed me and paid me a apontaneoua and hearty tributa ot admiration, I ahall make a poem on thia day, I ahall call it "Fleet Street re vi aited." The world ahall rcjoice at thia acci- dental outburat of gratitude and — and — and love — yea — my dear, love. It is nothing ahort of lovo — and the love ofmankind ia the Poet'a trueat crown of glory.' Strange to aay, though tho people shouted, they never looked at him. When Althea afterwarda remenibtred thia demon- : FLEET STREET REVIS1TED itration, it becauie like some nightmare, to (hink of those eyes wbich saw not, those faces whieh showed not the leaat intere»t in her fether, while they oried aloud, ' The Poet I The Poet I ' And not one or two here and there : not a shont in one oomor and another fürt her on : bat a continual roar of voices. Some shonted and some growled : Bome laughed and aoins groaned ; Borne danoed and eome hung their heads: some ehook banils and eonie plunged their hande in their pocketa. But oll of them — all thia graat crowd that filled Fleet Street froru end to end oried, shouted, or growled in every variety of voice and eipreasion, ' Tho Poet I The Poet I The Poat I ' At Chancery Lane they wäre cleur of the rnob and Mr. Inda- gine pnt on hia hat again. But still they were pureued by the cry, though it grew fainter and came not west of the Grlffin. Indeed along the Strand, as the objoet of this enthusiasm after- wards remarked, they might have been quite common people, ibr all the notiee that was tukcu of them. CHAPTER XIX. The aingla faot that tbeae eventa saemed of Bnfficient importanee to draw Claudia out of her seclnsion is in itself jnrtification for the writing of the whole historj. It ia what very thoughtfiil Americans call pivotal, a Word bo tmly beantiful that it ahould be kept on & shelf to be looked at, like the family puncbbowl. Great and important, indeed, muet bethat mundaneeveot which could call Clandia from her retirement. A Prophetesa must necessarily rcmain in eecliiajon. The Pythian, who only eiercised her functiona for one month in the yoar, remained during the other eleven in atrict retirement. If she went ont at all it was in a litter borne by spinaicrByonng ond old, every one of whom hoped to aucceed when their turn should arrive at— say Beventy-two or so— to the hononr of the three-lcgged etooL Before the litter marched two by two the six priesta, all in white BUrpliccs, bawling ? Boom for the Lady Pytiiia I ' In the litter lay a veiled figure. But no one aaw her face. So the Prophetesa of the Early Church etayed at home, inviaible, retired. Sometimes in the Stimmer she went fortb to take the air in a carriage, veiled, and attended by her niace Flavia. Except by her congregation ehe was seen by none. Tet ehe came forth one moming, Walking, aetually Walking, asif ahehad heen any ordinary mortal, to call lipon Althea. And uo one in tha atreet took the leaat notiee of her. That wa» THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S perhaps because the meinbers of her own congregation wore all engaged in their work : but in these days üben nuns.and siattrs, and iiuraes, and Salvation Majors all jostle on the pavetneat, dressed Bome in bbiek witb wbite atarched capB broad or narrow, and aomo in light blue frocks arid poke bonnets and coal-aouttlea, admiration is no longer evoked at the eight of a little lad; in blaek ailks even in the nioat unenlighteued ahun. The street door of the Doctor'a houae stood open all day long, for professional reasona. Thcrefore thera was no neeeasity for ringing, and the viaitor opening one of the aide doors at bazard discovered Althea alone meditating over her work. > May I eonie in ? ' ehe asked. ' My name is Claudia Laverook.' 1 Oh ! ' Althea aprang to her fest. ? Aunt Clandia ! ' 'If you please,' theladyreplied smiling. 'If youare Althea, as I auppose, I will be your aunt, or your inothor, or your aiater, or anything von plenae.' ßhe was dreaaed in her black aük, with a blaok laoe inantl« »ad bltick silk gloves : she wore a heavy gold ohain round her neck at the ent! of which waa a gold croas ; and ehe looked exactly like an Abbess of a Royal cloister, Franoh or Spaniah, reserved for iii:lv [MUMM W«, deturmed duchesses, and redueed gentlewomen who could ahow sixteen quarteringa at leaat : or perhnps like a chimoinesse living in the world and yet not quite belonging to the world, euch was the dignity of her carriage. In person she wau flight, but no one would call her insignificant : dignity, eapeoialLy in woinen, haa nothing to do with atature : her eyes were cuiiously kcon and yet they wera kindly eyes : Althea, who ha,d never eeen her before, began instantly to compare her with .her aiater Cornelia as one might oompare Cassie, pretty, soft and winning, with Flavia prim and demure. There were the same points of likeneas and of unlike- neas. She had a singnlarly soft and musical voiee : observing the musio of her voiee, the aweetness of her smile, and the kindlineaa of her eyea ona understood her power of attrnetion. Perhaps it waa this power aa much as the Prophetic gift which made the Coiiin:c:i"ii b^lii/ve in her so iniplicitly. She elosed the door and advanced with both handa out- atretched. ' You are Althea,' she repeated. ' I have heard of you, my daar, for many yeara, ainoe you were a little girl, sinee the time wheu my huaband died and I came back to my own people — who would have none of me — to preach and piophesy. I have heard of youj but I have never aeen you, because I cannot walk up and down the streeta like any other womau. I live secluded, save when I am in the Chapel. Fla via comes there every Sunday jvening to aee me and to hear me. But I have never Beon you. Ob ! I press no one. Where the Trutb ia proclaimed, thither ?honld flock all thoae who love the Truth. No, no, I do not press you — I cliii not tome to speak about the Connection, and no donbt mj Bister Coiin'llii ]ias prejudioed your mind. Once a person entere tlie Establi.-iheJ Church, you know, ehe naturally becomes loth to acknowledge Truth- ' 'I am iura ' Althea began to proteat. 'No, my dear, do not go on. I am not here to speak: abont the Chapel. It ia for quite other things— temporal coneerns — earthly mterests — that I have come.' 'I am stire it is out of kinduesa,' aaid Althea. ? Oh 1 aro you quite sure of that 1 ' the Prophetoaa mormured very aweetly. ' That waa very prettily said, my dear. Let roe look at you. Yes — you are avery beautiful girl, and if yonr eyes teil the truth and Flavia and Fehs uro not deceived, you are quite aa good as you are beautiful. All goodneaa, all lovclinesa, I would draw within my chapel walla. You are taJl and beauti- ful — you take after your father, who was also tall and hand- Bome. I will Bit- down, my dear, if you will allow nie, because I havo got a good deal to say.' She took a chair, apreading her ample robea as if the cbair were a throne. More than her share of the fainily dignity had fallen to her, yet with queenly graciousness. ' My ohild,' ahe said, ' a Thing has lieen laid npon me. For the most part my mind ia fully ocoupied in spirituäl meditations and in prayer. We pray without ceasing, who are the Brother - hood of Early Christians. Tet a Thing wbolly temporal haa been laid upon me. I say not what that is, and you must not ' If it does to know ? ' faithful who <-? — yes, you w 1 Althea 1 why ahould I aeek ? you. My dear, aupposo it does e< e but the e, have come to soo you. Out of kindnesa e right. I wotdd not willingly do anything that might wound the daughterof Clement Indagine or the dear friend of my niece Flavia aud of my son Fehs. But I must talk to you first, and perhapa I may have to say things that seem cruel.' ' I am sure yott cannot aay eruel things,' 'I am supposed bymy people,' said tue Prophetesa, ' to know Ieverything. I do not try to deeeive them, but they willingly believe that. Truly I know very little. I am a sorvant who apoaka what is put into her haart, and does what ia laid ready forherhands; these t hinga I may not reiuao.' She liesi täte d. 'My poor child, if I could spare you ' 1 What is it ? ' asked Althea, beginning to be alarmed. ' My dear,' said the Prophetesa. takiug the girl'a hand, ' I am going to aak you a quostiun wkich only an old and uluse friend »24 THE BELL OF ST. PAUVS haa the right to ask. I am a stranger, bat you know me. Believe me, it is from no idle curiosity. It ie a very important queation, and I cannot teil you, tu-dny, where the nnportanoe lies. Will you trust me, tuen, and give me an answer ? ' 'Ton ara no Btranger, 1 AJthea said. 'I know you already throngh Cassie and Flavia. I will teil you anything you wish.' 1 There ia a yonng man named Oliver Luttrcl, tlie adopted son of Dr. Luttrel ' — Althea blushed — ' to whom you uro engaged.' No, no,' Baid Althea, ' I am not engaged to bim . 1 Not engaged to him 1 ' No, I am not. And I ne^-er ahall be.' Oh!' The Sybil lookei puzzled. 'Then why did Mr. Waller teil my nieco Caaaandra that you were engaged to him ? ' ' He was mistaken,' Althea replied, with Borne ahow of coli- fusion. ' Yet that was the reason he went away. You know that, my dear, do you not ? ' ' I — believe so,' Althea replied. 'And if he knew that he was perhaps — mistaken, be might come back — is it not so ? ' Althea made no rcply to this at all. ' Well, but, my dear, Flavia went yeaterday evening to aee the young man at Ms Laboratory. She went to reproaoh him ; and he laughed at her, and said he was going to mairy you in three montha' time.' ' He is very greatly mistaken,' said Althea qtiickly. ' Oh 1 but he bas no right at all. I will teil you exactly what has happened. It ia two montha or so eince he began to pretend that he was in love with me— in order to please my father and my unole I told him — what any girl might have aaid— that if I could think of him at any time that way, I would liecome engaged to him. But nothing hae been eaid eines — ho haa not even beeD here — and now I know that it ig imposaible. Quite — qoite imposaible.' ' Would nothing make you ohange your mind? ' 1 Notbing.' 'Could you not by trying, atill in order to please your fnther, bring yourself to love hdm ? ' 1 No — never,' 1 Suppoae he were to eome to you bearing a great fortune in hie hande, would not that ' ' Oh 1 a fortune 1 How would that help me ? But it is quite impossible — I could never even think of him in that way.' ' You were brought up togother, in thia houae. Doea not the »oolleotion of that time softeo your heart towarda him ? ' ' Oliver is my brother, I inust always be interosted in bim : IS IT NOT TRUEt 32; .lothing that he enn aay or do is Indifferent to üb hero. Bat he will never be anything more to nie.' The Prophetess seemed gratified by this news. She smiled gravely and nodded her head. Then ehe took Althea's band onee more in her'B and gently patted and preesedit, She was a very sympathetic PropheteBs. ' My dear,' ehe said, 'better to be a lonely woman all your life thnn to marry a man whom you have never loved. But you will not remam lonely. That is not your fate. "Well, my dear, you are free, and what I tbought would be a paiiuul taak iE spare d nie.' ' I do not u nilerstand.' ' No : there are soma thinga bettcr not nndorstood nntil tha titne oomes,' she rephed darkly. ' In earthly concerns as in Bpiritnal there are tirnea of fiüfilment when the wicked are over- taken and the sainte are releaBed from the oppreasor and the cry of the poor ia heard. Beat asaured, child, that no barm will She rose as if to go, but firet aha looked round the room. Her eyes feil upon the portrait of tha poet hanging over the mantelahelt ' Oh,' she Said, ' that ia your father. I suppose he is changed. But I remember bim lue this thirty years ago and more, when I was a achoolgirl. Yes, he uaad to eome over to see bis brother MU6S.B, your uncle. /Eneas was a harum-scanim fellow and be got into debt and ran away, and I never heard what became of him, We girls used to iook alter Clement and whisper eaeh other what a lovely yonng man he was. After my sieter died I heard more about the two brothers. They were the sons of a poor gentleman who died in the Queen's Bench— he waa kept there by Mr. Norbery himself— his own brother-in-law, thongh that I did not learn tili afterwards. Oh 1 he was a hard man. Clement would never so mach as speak of hia uncle, Lucy told me.' 1 Who waa Lucy 1 ' ' Have you never heard of Lucy 1 ' Mra. Laveroak laughed a little. ' Oh [ but you ought to know about Lucy, beoause I trnnk before long you will be very much interested in her. Lncy waa my cousin, and when my eister died she became houae- tkeeper to Mr. Norbery, then ehe got married and went away to Australia. Such a bright clever girl she was — not ao pretty aa her aister Florry — -poor Florryl poor thing — but eheerful and happy. Oh I the old times — I often wonder, my dear, if they ever really exiated — if I waa ever really young and pretty. OhI how happy it muat be to be young and pretty I ' The Pro- phetesa at thia point became perfeetly human and womanly. ' Sometimes it aeema to me as if the only happineee in life ia to 226 THE BELL OF ST, PAUL'S be young and beautiful. But these two girlB, my cousins, wera terribly poor, and we were unable to do rauch for them — and Florry weilt away — she ha.il better have stayed with her sister. Poor Florry I she was my favourite, but my sister Julia loved Lucy. The old days ! the old days ! My dear,' she sat down again, ' you will hear a great deal more about Lucy, I promise you.' Again she laugked aud nodded her head. ' Shdll I?' Älthea replied with indifference. The name of Lacy did not attract her. ' I must go away I suppoae." But she did cot get up. ' My dear, you caa eome to eee me if you like — not at the Chapel but fit honie. Come in the aftemoon when I have tea. In the even- ing I am always with my people aad iu the morning I am alone — with my saal.' ' I will come, thank yon." ' I hear about you from Flavia and ftom Fehl— my son Felix — ' she added the last words with a littlo softening of the voice. ' My son is a good boy, though bb yet the Early Church has not beeil able to Bomber him aniong the folih He thiaks more about bis old fricnds of the Poly. But he is a goodboy, and just now he is unhappy.' ' Are we all unhappy ? ' asked Althea. 'He is unhappy on account of his cousin Gassie. Toung neu are so Billy about girls. And Cassio is crying her eyes out, he says, for this other young man — this wicked young man, Oliver, who has jilted her.' 'Oh, do,' Althea oried. 'That oannot be. Wliy, Cassie herseif told ma over and over again — and Ohver asaured me — that there never was aaything between tliem.' ' My dear, girls are proud about these things. Cassie said it whiel ich was not ti tb. And the young man cruelly laughs at it possible ? ' ' Everything is possible with those who belong to the world. But the young man shall be punished.' Her face hardened for aniomeut as she pronounced this judgment. 'My boy— my son Felix — ' again Bhe became perfectly human and womanly. ' My Felix — is he not a great strong man ? But he takes after his father— is foolish about Cassie. They are the same age and he loves her — at least he aays so — men are always foolish about girls, you know— and he is mad about it. My dear Felix wanted to go and horsewhip this young man. But we have dis- suaded him because there is ß. more cor t am way. I caiae her« fearing that to punish Ohver would be to hunuliate you. Bul that is not so.' I would rather that he was forgiven or left to himself.' He must be punished, and that in such a way as to tear the IS IT NOT TRUEt last illusiona frora Cassie'fl eyea and to show him such as he is. Leave this man to me, Althea.' Iahe was again the Propheteaa. 1 The wicked dig pits for others and fall (herein theniselvea. They set nets and arn caught in them. Leave him to me.' With these words, which left behiml them a, prophetic forehoding of wrath to fall upon the head ol' the guilty, she rose onee more togo. ' My dear,' she said, Stripping again, ' Ihave seen Mr. Waller. He cama to my Chapel with Flavia. He is a tall and handsoine young man. Ile went away becsuse he thought yon wera en- E»ed to another man, did he not ? ' She again preBsedAlthea's uds in her own with warm and sympalhetio grasp. 'Ohl bccauue he lovea you so much tbat he cannot bear to tliink that you belong to another man ' ' Oh I pleaae — please say no more. He is gone.' 'He would come back agalnil'he thought — hewould Sy back on the wings of the wind if he knew. Shall he come back, my dear ? Ob I shall he — shall he oome back to you, my dear— my dear ? Shall we bring him back ? ' She purred and murmured and whispered these words so füll of consolation and of hope, with voice so soft and melodions, with smile ao sweet, with eyes so gracionR and aöectionate that the girl's heart glowed within her. Theu wilhout any other force than the inesmeric power of sympfitny and love, ehe drew — -this little dainty Prophi 'u. M drew down to her own level the girl's tall head and Mssed her, aa with a benediclion, on the forehead. Then she went away leaving behind her snch a glow and warmth of hope and hiippiness aa might havo romindcd Althea of the day when she floated down the river of molten gold in a pnrple oloud to mest the man who was come all the way from the Antipoden to be her War. Was there ever auch a Prophetess? Yet how conld she bring him baok ? Other Propheta have had their gifte. The Lady Pythia, for a thousand years ; Nostradamua ; the Eed- faced Nixon ; Doctor Francis Moore ; Mother Shipton— they conld all foretell the future — especially if there was onything naaty in it, as mostly there ie. Bat conld any of them— conld any Prophet ever known — exeept Claudia — bring a atraying lover back to the arms of his mistress 7 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S CHÄPTER XX. I 1t wai a wet evening in August, when the anramer appeared to have auddenly taken to iteeif wings and fled away to Borna more happy isle. The evening was still yonng, and broad day- light, with clouds drivins acrosa a grey, not a blue sky, and rain laahing and pelting the black face of the river made Bank Sido look miserable indoed, On auch an evening Father Thainea acowls and threatena : he who oreeps forth to the nearest Bridge resolved to Jump over and have done with it sees below him an angry llood which promisea to roll him over and over and to keep the hie long in him white it dashes him to and fro, break- ing arms and lega against the sidea of barges and prolonging the horror of death out of mere liad temper and malignity. The prospect affrights the poor wretch and be shiinkä baci and goes home again resolved to bear a little longer — at least tili better weather— tha misfortunes which beaet him: one would not willingly have one's last impreaaions of the world aet in bo gloomy a frama : if we innat depart without leave, uncalled and uninvited, even against orders;, let ua bave tlie stars twinkling over us and the moon riding in splendour to redeem the horror of the final jump. Dn auch a night, to the residents on Bank Side the wooden wall looks me:m and the barges aqualid: the pilea of ruaty chain and scrap iron All the bouI with aadneas: it is as if lifo were henoeforth to be apcnt among the ahucka and ahards, the duds and rags, the broken bits, the scraps, and the uaed-up thinga of Ufa, as if one was condemned to beconie a Lazarus eittiug outside the back gate of the mansion, in the place where tbey shoot their rubbish, not in the street, er on the doorstep within view and within reach of any Lord Dives and bis friends. There arises before the mind an image as of Marina Storea. One looka »round for the Black Doli Ona feels the actual Froprietorship of a Rag and Bone Emporinm. Such an evoning ia especinlly depressing on a summer even- ing when it in still üght and one cannot draw the curtains, make up the fire and sit round it. To be cold and comfortless in August is a kind of robbery. It is everywhere moumful; but there are some houaes in which it ia tnaddening — those, namely, in which the good old rule is maintained which allows no fire from the first of May to the end of October, rage the weather ever so Arctically. Cornelia maintained that rule. THE FUGITIVE RETÜRNS 2=9 Therefore, Cassie wonid have shivered and SemproninswonM ave cramined his hands in hia pockcts had the times been at their happiest. But it was more thati the deprcssion caused by Elighted Siriua which covered, thia evoning, the faces of all with a cloud of the blackest gloom and deepondency. Dejection was written on oll their faces, escepfc perhaps on that of the boy, who had a book and waa ihr away froni Bank Sido — on the broad Pacific Ocean in fact, and in very bad Company — pirates, indeed, flying the Jolly Roger, anapping np Spaniarda and merrily making them walk the plank. It was the preaence of diaaster. A fortnight ago it was threatened. Now it was upon them and the oatlook waa charged with blackness. ' Children,' said the Head of the Houae, atriking hiB right band into hia waistcoat — it ia alwaya a diguified action, thougli of late, since the suppression of the laced ruflle, it has loat much of its effectiveneae. ' Children, I begin to think that I am — ha, ha ! — antiquated — actually antiquated. An experience with the procedure of the Courts and Chamber praetice extending over thirty years has left yoiir fathcr, I bolk-ve — antiquated — I am 110 longer wanted.' Flavia looked up and murmured disbelief, 'Tea— that appears to be tho ca.se — i am no Longa wanted. I Huppoae that even if Mr. Polter, Q.C., were himself to retum he would be no longer wanted. Services such aa I can render — I uied to think they were anch as few can render — aro no longer appreciated. They now require, I am told, a young man who wili brü'is l'iusmess bring — bring ' li<_ ropc-nled with snrcaam, ? will bring business. They want a man who knowa eolicitors' clerka. That ia the new way of things. Formerly^muat I aay in my time 1 — we received bneiness. What would Mr. Polter have said to me had I propoeett to bring him business ? We received it : we conferred an Obligation on those who brought it — merely by receiving it. And wo — the mcn of our position tin tha Higher Branch did not know — we would not know — Bolicitore' clerka.' ' Have you fonnd anything, Cassie ? ' Fla via whispered. Cassie shook her head. ' I can never forgot,' continued their father, ' the dignity with which Mr. Polter, Q.C., received a brief. Some of hie manner, I have been told, feil upon myself. Am I lost to the Higher Branch ? It wonid seem so. After a man has been upon the Higher Branch of what usa iahe elsewhere ? The maehineiy of the Law— the praetice at Court and in Chambers, the endorse- ment of the Briefe — tha condnet of the barrister'a bnsineas — theae are intrieaeies which I have at my finger ends.' ' I have tried everywhere,' whispered Casaie. ' There seewi DOthing to be got.' 230 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S ' What eise do I know ? Apart from a liberal ednoatiou and whatever the nao of an extensive library haa given to me — nothing. Can I inake a boot 1 Can I seil a yard of calico ? Thera is no opening for one who baa aerved for thirty yeara in the soeiety of barristerB and gendeinen — in the Higher Branch.' 'There'a heapa of girla,' Caasio contintied in a low voice, 1 who will take anything — anysliinst— girln who have been taught things and can write Fronch and Gercnan. I know nothing.' 'Children, sinoe all industry is honourable you will not ba aahamed of your father abould yon see him steering a wheel- liarrow on a plauk between Bank and bärge. I have still my handa and my legs — -' ho oxtended one ; it waa both ahort and thin. 'I believe that ha!f-a-crown a day oan be earned upon the plank.' Sempronius. 1 ic-rirl ii j er r>vr-r his book in hia custnmary corner, lookcd up and ohoked. Then he blnshed guiltily, and again ha ciioked. He belonged to the large but unhappy claaa of boya who are aeizedat thowrongmoment withanovernoweringdesire to laugh. I know one poor man who wouldcertainlyhavamada an e\eellent Biabop— he actually wanted to be a Biahop — but ie now nothing tut a story-ii/IW becass« he could not cÜooae bnt l.: 1 ;.;!! win vi '.-vor tln; '.k'.'-ive «eined liinv. He hii-s been known to disgraee a funeral by untimely mirth. And he was forced to renounoe an ecck-siastieal career from the dread, nay, the oer- tainty, that soiiiüthtnK vvonlJ some day oecurtohiin whichwoold make him laugh in the pulpit. SempxoniuB is perhapa deatined to furniah another üluBtration of this nnfbrtnnate weaknesa. The pietnre of his parent in black troiisers, frook coat, and a tall hat Walking up and down a plank behind a wheelbarrow waa too much, and he etuffed hia handkerohief intohia mouth— the only counter-irritant yet diseovered. ' Natura, ' oontinued his father with aeverity, ' aa you will find admirably put in your grandfather'a work, Semproniua, compelH ua to eat: this is the Universal Law. If we wotdd eat wo muflt work. Another Universal Law. Again, workmuat be honeat. Thia ia a moral Law. Therefore all honeat work niust be honourable. If it is no longer poasible for me to remain in the Highar Branch I shall <-lii--il'n!!y aet-iipt. whiiicvcr eise mav offer, even if it be the handle of the wheelbarrow.' ' Nobody wants girls,' Caasie oontinued, gloomily. 1 Patianee,' aaid bor aister. ' Some t hing will turn np.' They relapaed into gloomy silence. Things apparently were at their blackest. At thia point, they always mend. Unfor- tunately, long after they have seemed aa block aa Brebus, they Bometimes grow blacker still, incredibly blaek. In thia caao they imgbt certainly have grown much worse. The familvetill hads THE FUGITIVE RETURNS 331 honse over their heads : Cornelia hnd heraalary and Flavia hera — at the worst it would le a tight fit for a whila. But a tight fit continued a little too long may mean a drop in gentility after- wards irrecoverable. What, for inetanee, would belifeto&young lady in the Telegraph Department without glovea? 1 Last night,' eaid Cornelia, breaking sileuca, ' I heard Jie ringing of beila and dreamed of oraoking nuta. If I know any. thing, this means good fortune.' 'Well,' said Flavia, 'if we can't get good fortune, I snppoBö there'8 aome consolation in dreaming about it. Let uh all wiah. Father, I wish you a better Guarantee — Cassie, I wieh you better luek, and more eheerful looka — and I wish — I wish — yea, Ithink the very beat thing that couJd happen for all Of üb would be for Mr. Waller to come back again.' What followed ia alinoat increäible. For, atthat very moment, wben the werde were yet vibrating in the air, a Hanaom cab drove along Bank Side froin the Black- friars and. A Hansom cab on Bank Side — eicept sometimes in buainesa houra— ia indeed an unusual thing to see. Thia cab drew np at their door, and none other tlian Mr. Waller lumself, portmanteau, stieks and umbrelln, hat-box and bündle of ruga, jumped out. ' Oh I good gracious ! ' cried Flavia. ' Why — here he ia ! He'a actually come ! Just as we were wiahing for him . 1 Oh I let's run to meet bim I • Yes, he was amongthem again. He wasshakinghanda with everybody, especially with the girla : ha waa pullin g Sempronina by the ear : he was hearing the newa : he waa listening to Luciua discouraing upon the withdrawal of the Guarantee and to Flavia over Cassie's loas of pla.ee. He was running upataira with his thinga and down n.gnin. And all their hearts were lil'ted and all their eyes werebright. What he WH going to do no one knew. But that aomething would be done now he waa come was eertain. ' Mr. Waller,' Said Flavia, a horrid thought piercing her like a knife. ' Are you only come to aay good-bye before you go back to AuatraÜa ? ' ' No — if I may atay — if I may have the Best Bedroom again — thank you — I ahould like to ranke a litllo longer viait than a day or two, you good kind people.' He held out one hand to Aunt Cornelia, who had been the firat to nod at the mention of the Beat Bedroom, and the other to Caseie. 'I have been think- ing about you ever since I went away. I have been to the Lakea and about — here and there — and alwaya rav thoughts caine back to Bank Side.' That,' aaid Flavia, ' we can very well underatand.' There were thinga I had left anhniahed, and things I wanted 332 THE BELL OF ST. PAULS to see workad out. And bo — and bo— I have conie back, you ' Oh, it'a wonderful,' said Flavia. Juet for a further proof of the miracnlons nature of his return, the rain left off suddenly : the clouds blew away: thc smiling Buti shone out : clear and high against the blue sky showed the great dorne of Paul's, and tbe river sparkled and danced. " It'a wonderful,' Flnvia repeated. 'Aunt Cornelia, I do be- lieve it's your dream of the ringing bella.' If he had gone away melancholy he eauie back lively. He was in the best of Bpüits — he laughed all over — he made them feel, instantly, what a desperately iuolisli thing it was to repina over being out of werk. Everything was easy— everything wouli turn out well : the world waa the best of all possiblo worlds. ' Come outside, Cassie,' he eaid presently, ' come out, Flavia. Let na go and look at the bärge-?.' 'It was here,' he eaid, when they stood above the Bank Side " ' ' that yon and Althea came out of the Bimset, Cass. You ? Yes, I remember.' ' Oliver met you and carried the oara home for yon. You remember, Casaie ? " ' Yes, I remember.' 1 Casaie,' he aaid— he had taken her hand and held it — ' you made a terrible miatake : you will get over it — I am certain you will get over it. And I made another.' 1 What waa youra ? ' ' I told you that— that — Althea waa engaged to him.' 1 Well ? ' cried Flavia. ' Well ' he laughed. ' Yon know he ian't." ' Oliver says he is.' ' He may aay what he pleaaes. He ia not.' 1 How do you know it, Mr. "Waller ? ' ' A bird in the air Bang it to me : the wind on the hülsida above Eydal Water whispereditinmy ears: a voieecame to nie in the night.' ' So you have come back,' said Flavia, gravely. ' Lucius,' said Cornelia, 'remember what I told yon before. This talk about Sir David Waller ia all rubbiah and r That young man is Cousin Lucy's Bon. I do not know how he came by his money and Mb fine elothea. Let na hope, honestly. 1 ' I ahonld indeed hope so. But, Sister -' 1 Lucy's boc, I toll you. Alter such behaviour as Lucy's to me, which I shall never forget, there are few women who would forgive her. But I do,' ehe added with the sniff of forgivenesa. 'And I will not viait her eins upon her bou. But I should like . ba he THE FVGITIVE RETURNS her eyea, her voice, her very way of laughing. They were a pretty pair of Bisters, those two ; and him to conie masque- rading aa the soa of a great maji ! Well, I'm glad he'a corue back, but I mean to üud out what it deana, Lucy'a owa aon I ' OHÄTTER XXL itl Mr. dear young friand ! * Mr. Indagioe jumped out of his chair and welcomcd him with both hands and a md&ao sunlight in fl:_ eyea. ' You have oome back to ue 1 I thought yoa would never oome back. Älthea — my child — -' he raieed his voice so as to be heard in the other room. ' Come quickly. Come to welcome Mr. Waller.' Althea obeyed. She cama in with a blush npon her cheek and gave Laureuce her hand with downcast eyes. Thia won> derfnl Propheteas I Then she took refugo behind her father. ' You are welcome indeed,' he repeated with a deep eigh. ' Oh I If you only knew how greally \vu have missed you ! ' ' It was imposeible to stay away, you see,' Lanruiico replied, looking, perhapa by accident, at Älthea. ' I was obliged to come 1 Obligod to come back,' the Poet echoed, with satisfaction unbounded. 'Nay — nay— you overeatimate the aociuty of a poet. But you are privileged— in thie houae you can say any- thing you please. Sit down — I have quantities of thinga to say. Sit down — Bit down.' He pushed his young friend iiito the easy chair and went on talking. ' Well— it ia a real pleasure to have you back agaio. You look better, too. That laat day you were here — I remember — you looked unhappy. Roin. rhini: lind fyiuo wrong.' ' Yea,' Laurenee replied. ' Something had gono very wrong indeed. But I have eoma back '— this tune he waa careful not to look at Althea — 'with hope renewed.' 'That ie very good hearing. Well— you shall hear what haa happenod to me. First of all, I have carried out my promiae. I have retumed to the world. Only once, as yet, it ia true, but it has been enough to prove the renlity and to gaiifjo the deptli of that fame which you, my friend, were the iirst to reveal *34 THE BELL OF ST PAULS ' Indeed ? ' asked Laurencft, a shade of anxiety falling upim his face. ' How waB that ? ' ' When I think of it, I am really astoniahcd. Even the moBt Banguine of men could not expect such a thing. And after thirty years to be actually recognieed I ' ' What did happen ? ' ' What should you think of a Populär Keception ? ' ' What f ' Laurenoe Btarted and aat upright. 1 Of an Ovation — a Public Triumphal March ? ' ' An ovation ? ' 1 Nothing lese, my young friend, I assnre you. Nothing leas. And of the most amazing character.' ' Beally 1 ' Thia was indee d bewildering. Thia impoator — who had himaelf counterfeited the Voice of Farne, feit aa if the Barth was going round imd er hia feet. ' A Triumphal March?' ' Ton Bhall hear. We took a walk — Althea was with me — through the City. After lingering a little in Patornoater Eow we walked down Ludgate Hill and through Fleet Street. To be Bure my appearance waa quite public : there waa no attempt at coneealment : we walked openly and it waa mid-day — I was looking about me, pointing out to Althea some of the old placea and their literary associationa. and mai'ldng the changea that have been made m the street. It was quite füll of people — men — congregated on the pavement and talking — when suddenly, to my intense aurpriae, I found that I was actually recogniaed I ' 'Recognisedl ' Laurcnce gjaspcd the arm of the chair to Bteady himaelf. ' Who recognised you ? One of your old frieuda f ' 1 No — no — I met none of my old friends. I wiah now that they had all been present — my lukewarm friends with my enemiea, to aee and hear, I was rccogniscd— Iconfeas that it ie most aetoniahing— I was suddenly and universal ly recognised— I cannot imagine how myfaoe c&me to be kaown tothem — by the assenibled multitude ' ' Good Heavens ! ' In a moment— in the twinkling of an eye — there glanced through the mind of thia conacience-atricken deceiver a dramatic possibility, how the thing that he had in- vcnted only to please Althea might actually, without hia own knowledge, have really taken place — that the Poet's repntation had actually grown during theße thirty yeare aa he had deeeit- fully fabled and represented so that he was in sober leality fivmonB. Ifso 'The Btreet,' Mr. Indagine went on, 'was, I say, crowded with people. In the old days it was never bo füll. None of them seemed to resemble the men who used to frequent Fleet Street and sit in the Taverna. It waa a crowd wliich a man might sei down aa comparatively humble. Yet their facea were s A MORXING ON DUTY TJS intelligent and they were greatly fcnimated and they knew me, one and all.' ' Good Heavens I ' cried Lanrenee — ' thia is wonderful.' ' Ib it not ? Snddenly some one cried out my nanie— the word flew from niouth to mouth— we were mobbed, though reapeetfolly — even reverentiftlly." ' Your Tiawe — did thev erv out " Mr. Clement Indapine " ¥ ' * No. They cried out *' The Poet ! There ia tue Poet 1 " or " Look at the Poet," or words to th.it effeot. It really was, and will ever remain, the prondest nioment of rny life. It was nothing ahort of an ovation tliat they gare me — nothing less, na I said, than a Triumphal Mareh that we made." Lanrenee tnrned with amazement to Althea. * I cannot teil,' ehe said, ' how the people oame to know who he was. There were great erowds stnnding about, and they Itept erying "The Poetl the Poet! Three to two upon the Poet I " It was wonderful. And yet they aeemed not to be looking at bim.' ' Among the people,' said the Poet, ' in places when yon would least expect it, there is a natural delieney of feoling which is very pleasant to eiperience. They knew. of course, how dis- tastefnl it would have been to hnve all eyes turned upnn nie. Therefore they averted their heads, though they coidd not restrain their feotings. I respect them all the more.' ' Three to two upon the Poet,' Lawrence repeated. Tlien he suddenly laughed and as suddenly became eolemn ap;nin. ' Why,' he said,' it must have been nmst warptit&Qg, «ud — and — as you Bay, truly gratifying.' Then his lips parted again as one who wiahod to laugh, and hiB eyes twiuklcd aa one who laughed inwardly, and once inore he hardened his face and became as solemn as a clown at a christening. ' Stay with nie thia momin^'sajd the Poet. 'Ihave a great doal more to teil yon, Althea, my dear, will you leuve us alone f ' * Oh ! ' the young man'a face lengthened. ' I was — I was in hopes,' he said, ' that Miss Indaginc would take me on the river Indeed, Althea was already dreGKcd in her jadiot and strsiW hat. 1 Cessio is going with me,' she said, ' You must stay höre, Mr. Waller, please. My father lins a great doal to diaciiaB witb you. Now that yon have come back I can leave him with a lighter heart. The excitement of his great buccobb and the shouta of the people ' — aha laid her hunil upon hur fatber'a — ' have made bim restless of late. Our old tranquillity is broken ip. Will you stay here? Thnnli yWL Perlinps now that I know be is in good hands I shall see Borne of my old ghosti i 3 6 THE BELL OF ST. PAUVS ?Kl for pos my res. again. And perhapa,' ahe added, with what in other pirls would httve been a touch of ooiiuetry, 'I may find you here when I cortie back." Bho laughed and ran away. ' See, Mr. Waller, ' said hör father, 'you havo made Althe» look happier already. Since you went ftwny she haa bardly emiled. It is the way of the girl. She kuow that I was unhappy in losing von. She aaw me re stlesa for weint of that oommunion of bouI with Houl wbich I had reamned aller long abatiner My friend, I did not eonceal my aenso of loss, and it made her unhappy too. It is her sympathetio way. Pevsonally, of courEe, you were nothiog to her exoept for your servioos to me, But it ib her way.' ' It ia a very eharming way.' 'Yea. You may have remarked that ehe is pale and there are rings round her eyes. Öhe inherits this quiekrcess of eympnthy from me. It is the on]y part of the poetic nature whieh ehe does inherit. But ehe will bricht en up — nay, she haa already begun — now we ahall all be happier again.' The simple faith in hia power of bnnsing happiness along touched the young man with a little ehame. True, he had brought happiness, but by what meana ? 1 1 will read you a few things that I have corrected and arranged — thinga new and old — well, you sliall judge.' He laidhis hand lipon abulkypile of MSS. At another time the heart of the listener would havo quailed. Now he feit not only reaigned but even happy. It is only when a poet ia reading his veraea or when. the pareon ie preaching, or whüa a piece of clasaical muaie is played that one enn surrender the thoughts to perfect freedom and let them. ramble and roam at their owa flweet wiU. It ia only at auch times that one can sit at easa and peace whÜ6 the imngination wanders and straya among fiowery Ianes and grasay banka. Laurence reclined in hia ehair with half closed eyes, while his thoughts, tmdisturbed, dwelt upon the virtues and the gracea of hia mistreas. ' I must ahow you,' the Foet went on, ' what progreaa I have made in my new volunie. S-ee — here is the Mamiscript very nearly ready for the printera. Now for a little surpriae for you — I intended it aa a secret. But you shall have it at onoe. Thia manuaeript, my Mend, ia going to be your own. I shall give it to you as a poaseasion and au heirloom for your children's ehildren.' 1 This ia indeed a great favour,' aaid Lauronce cordially. 'I hope I fcaow how to value it aright.' 1 Nay, you deserve it. I had intended to arrange the poema for posthumoua publication. But recent events have ehanged my resolution. A Poet haa no right to be silent. I now under- A ItORNOiG ON DUTY , 3 , stand that : he fails in Ha duty if he faÜB to deliver his message ; ho ehoold continually prophesy : he belongs essentially to tha whole People : he ia thefffe in a eense granted to *fl.o one eise : it ia hia duty to find words for their thoughts : he is to be their Voioe : he owea to the People everything in himself that ia good and noble; for their aako he muat coltivato great thoughts and live a pure life : to defilehislifeiBtodefile theatream of thought at the fountain-head ; to refuse work is high treason to his misaion : to withhold hie work when it is completed as a kind of robbery. Yes— I understand— Heaven forgive me ! I have coimnitted this sin of treason. I have robbed the People of He spoke in tonos of exaltation. Surely such a man — one who held the ofBoe of Poet in honour so high — ahould bo him- self a great Poet. Honour and respeot so great deserve that spii dial n going,' he continued, ' to read to you this moming my fortheoruing poems. Let nie Erst axrange my papers.' White he was arranging his papers Laurence drew a letter from hie poeket and read it. The fetter was as follows : ' My dear Consin, — I know perfectly well who you are ; partly because I leamed long ago that my cousin Lucy married a certain David Waller of Itotherhitho, boat-builder, and that ahe emigrated with Hm when his affairs became involved : partly because in yonr face and eyes and your voiee you tesemble your mother so closely that no donbt is possible. ' It has been laid upon me aa a plain duty that I should communicate with you. Iwish, first, to seek your counselupon a matter very cloae to me— the welfare of my aon : and next I am anxions to save you and another persen from unhappiness. I know why you bastily went away. You thought that a certain girl wasengaged. That is not so. She is not engaged to the Cag man of whom von think, she never has been engaged to : sho never will be. Tou burriodly jumped to a false oon- clusion. Come back, therefore, mith what speed you may, and with a füll confidence that nothing Stands between you and the end which you desire. ' My dear cousin, in thinga earthly we of the Earty Church make and meddle only as theymay servethings spiritual. Ifl| who am called a Propüetess, interfere in an afl'air of the heart, it is because I am convineed that Althta IsdagiM and you are of those who dimb upw&rds by meacs of earthly happiness. Othere there are — and theae are the majority — who are led to thinga spiritual by sorrow, misfortune, sicknesa or disappointment. 1 There are other reasona why you shonld come back imme- diately. Trouble haB fallen upon my Brother Lucius and bis I 333 THE BELL OF ST. I AUL'S household. He hasbimself loBühlsplace andeannot find anoiher, My riiocB Casaandra haa also lügt her place aiid cannot lind aoother. Besides, slie is fretting about a worthless man. The whole family will shortly have tu dopend upon tlie aeanty earn. inga of inj Bister Cornelia and my niece Fla via. I take it that more than curiosity brought Lucy'» son to Bank Side : I hear that your falber has arrived at diatinction and I hope wealth: I hope that you will be able to do Borne t hui g for your cousina. But come back. Aa for bim who brought the trouble upon Casfiie and caused you to think a falsehood, there is pTeparing for bim an outpouriug of wruth which he little imagineB or suspects. I Bpeak not of the eertain punishnient for Bin, bat of quick and audden confusion. ' When, my dear young Cousin, I look forwnrd into the future and wateh your figure moving onwarda with the years that roll tts alwaya nearer and nearer to the Steps of the Throne, I See nothing but happiness befüre you, sbadowed with the aorrows which inust ccrtainly happen m every earthly life. Tou will have Love, which hallows every tbing. If you meet with worldly succoBB it Bhall not harden your hoart, for Love will keep it soft. If you fall upon adversity, Love will enable you to bear it. The Early Church was founded oo Love. In our Conneetion, it :s Love which binda us together. Cousin, I have but one message to repeat to the world which still forgets it. TIioeg who love cannot sin against each other. With üb in the Early Church sornc may be husbands and soiae wivea. But all love each other. This is our Creed — Love is all. If I can teacb you that, your stay in this poor place will have been hallowed indeed. ' Your affectionate Couain, ' CLiUBlA.' Lamenca flnished the letter — he had already read it a dozen times — and folded it oarefully. ' I have obeyed you, Claudia,' he said, 'I have obeyed you and I am here.' 'I am now ready, my friend,' said the Poet. Laurtnec aat well back, shading bis face as one who desirea to concentrate bis attention — in fact he did intend to do this, though for anothar porposo. Then the Poet began to read and his listtuer sat perfectly still and oßered no interruption what- ' She ia not engaged after all,' thus his thoughts began to run — 'she 18 not engaged,' thoso worda ranlike the refrain that you may aometimea hear if you close your eyes in the rolling of a railway train, ' and somothing dreadful is going to happen to Wha Well Mr. Oliver Luttrel. What will happen to him, I wonder? asa able t( What is he after ? Ia the Propbetesa able to cause misfortune oi foretell happiness ? And what does aha want with •p». A MORNING ON DÜTY im? And Althcaisnotengaged — Althea, thegoddeas.whooanie out of the aunset. She is free, and I am back again. Aiid ehe was nnhappy uecauso I was gone. Oh I Althea, Althea ! ' And the Poet went on reading his verses, sheot after aheet, with satisfaction unntterahle. For the shouts of the multitude, the praiae of the SatuTdatj Review, and the synipathy of the young man who had oome all the way froin Australia in order tu gnze upon him, filled his mind onee more with the old belief in his own powera : never sinee the days when he flrst bcgan to write verso and to read his poonis over alone locked np m hia own room, had he been so strongly moved by the beauty and tho slrength and depth of his verses. ' Ohver is eoining in for wrath,* Lawrence continued following on. ' I wonder how he will tako it. Ia Folix going to visit him with the weight of hia long arm ? Lucins has had to come down from the Higher Branch, and Cassio is out of place. Poor Ciissie ! and I am to do soniething for thein all — and Althea is And the voice of the Poet was lilte imto the drone of the bumhle bee among the sweet peas. 1 In the houso of a gcneral prac titioner in about the meanest part of London,' he thought, 'among atreeta whieh are squalid and people inespreaaible, with no Munds, escept those artless cousins of mine. has grown np this flower of maideuhood, more deUeate, more refined, than any of her sisters who live in the world. None of the meanness of her Surround in:;;; appt-nrn in her : it is as if thia house was a. calm cloister in the midst of tho wiekod world. She has livod with books and with this mau — who haa trained her in the poetry which he vaicly emulatos and in the lofty thoughts which he haH borrowed and thinka his own And she is free — and more beautiful than ever." Two hours later Althea cameback from her row np the river. It was, no doubt, the freah breeze upon the river which had taken the dark lines from her eyes and restored thoiv snnsliinc, given colour to her pale oheek and hfe to her drooping tigure. She openod the door and lookeö in, smiling. 1 Well,' ehe said, ' if you have finiahed, you two, will you come to lunch?' Laurence was sitting in the easy chair, his long legs out- etretched, his head beut forward, his elbows on the m'ins of the chair and his hands leaning agaüust each other by the finger tips. It waa an attituüe of profound attention — so profouud that the tliinker might have seemed asleep. The poef, FOgtrd- less, went on mouthing hia hollow o'es and a'es in rapt enjoy- ment of his own nnmbers, But at the girl's voice Laurenoo " ng to his feet. We luvt, had,' he said, 'a niost delightfnl morning.' He 240 THE BELL 0F ST. PAUL'S took the Poet's hand and prcssed it warmly. 'Ton will not ask me,' he murmured, 'for a critieal opinion. I havo been quite oarried away. My mind has been ülled with beautiful thoughta ever eines you begm to read. And now, Mies Inda- g»ne, may I be at your Service für the rest of the day? ' CHÄPTEB XXII. NoTHINö more movea and soften« tbe heart of man than a feaal given in hie honour. It need not be a great banquet at all : quite poor persona may give thia banquet : nothiog is wanted tut the outward signa of welcome — the unnaual adommenta: the freshly cut flowere : the white napery ; the Linie extra care over the disheB or the little extra display in their presentment. Laureuce had never before broken bread at thia houaehold : he kuew nothing of tbe household arrangements : yet he under- stood at once that Althea had decked the board with her own handa to do him bonour. And though cold mutton formcd the staple of the meal, thero were flowcrs fetched froni the neigb- bouring market — the Coveat Garden of the Borough: there were plums and peara for dossert also from that hoapitable em- porium : there was a naost delicate confection of aoples and cream made by Althea's own handa : and though piain beer — that at eight and eis the nhue-gallon caek — formed the daily beverage of her father and her nccle, there wag pLaeod upon the table a Bquare bottlo tho fragrance of whieh was alone sumeient to diffuse happineBs. Laurence also remarked — Caasie being another guest — that both the girla had put on their best things. Caasie, indeed, looked as if a prayer-book alone were wanted to complete her coBtume. Ae for Althea, ebb had put on the oae fino frock she posaeased ; it was of light blue, which auited her fair complesion, and ahe wore a dainty httle ruff round her neck, though that charming part of feminine attire ia oo longer, I believe, in fashion, and she had a rose-bud at her throat. 1 My dear,' cried her father, ' what have you done to your- self? You look ohanged indeed. It is from pure joy, Mr. Waller, because you have come back to me.' Althea laughed and bluahed a httle. Then they all sat' down and the cold leg of mutton became tranaformed into eome rare and costly diah such as a Roman emperor of old would purchase with the annual revenues of three provincea. The Doctor, für whonj uobody evor waited, came home early >0A~ ON LEAl'E 341 in the celebration of thebanq,uet and found feastinganälaughter in his generally silent house. Never had the Poet, even in hia youthÄ] days, when he aat among the Wits boen more aniuaated, never had Althea a brigliter glow 011 hör cheeks or a aunnier Light in her eyes. Domestic joy, however, ie a fragile kind of thüig : a shower is always threatening ; a cloud comes up in a minute : anow is even possible : and I have known o gWial wind to arise on a June-like eveuing, with sleet and LaU and picrcing cold in the most unexpected manner and in the happiest ' We only want Oliver,' said the t>octor, looking about him cheerfully. ' With Oliver we should be complete.' Althea flushed crimson, and Cassie beut her head. The Poet remembered aomething of wliat his daughter had said to him and dimly pereeived, thongh his raind was naturally filled with his own verses, that this was an nnfortuuate remark. The Doetor, who had no verses to oecupy his niind, more readily understood that something— he knew not what— was unfortn- nate in his remark. A little thing, but for tha moment it marrod tho featival. Thcy went on talkin p and laughing, but there remained just a little constraint. And Cassie laughed no more. Melanoholy, to think that one may introduce the harah noto of diaeord even when one posseases the most musical ear and is gnided by the most harmonious intentions. In a better world, perhaps, we shall be able to read each other's eool through and throngh, so that no such cnishap shall oecur. 'And now,' said Althea, 'if you aro Btill willing to toke bo mnoh trouble, Mr. Waller, you Bhall show üb tho West End of London and your great Fashionable World.' Laurenca was more thau willing. Certatnly, he would have preferred Althea alone, perhaps becauae a Haiieoin oab is more plaaaant thon ita eider brother : porhapH, becauso he was young and in love. However, batter with Caaaie thau not at all ; and, indeed, the girl looked prelty, and brighter thnn she had boen wont to sinea her lover's desertiou. They plunged into the Weat End by wny of Stamford Street, ?Westminster Bridge and St. Jomps's Tiirk und in a four-whoel, Few of those who belong to the Wurld of Fiisliion, nnless they happen to be Professionals of tlie Miinic Hall, approach ita gilded haUs by the way of Stamford Street. The Park was beautinil, as it always is all the yeor round. But the leaves were falling off the treos and the walks aud gras» were ooveved with children plnyingond the UnemplOyod MTflltJ und [iltuntiilia wonderful etudies of fora-shortenior; to llia observaut artiflt. 'It is a beautiful place,' said Althea, ' and I liko the duck* Bnt the people are no better-looking than in Southwark Park.' 1 14a THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S Then Lanrence led them np tbe steps cnmmandod by the Duke of York and ahowed them the stroet of Club Palaees. 1 Yijitr father,' he said, ' thought that the Poets and Wits congregate still in Fleet Street. But they have left it long ago and now they Bit in the Athenäum Club with the Bishopa, I don't know what splendid epigrama they make on the Biskops, becauso no one ever teils, outside. No doubt the Club ia alwaya bubbling with laaghter.' Then he led them np Waterloo Place to Regent Street. It waa in the middle of September. Every newspaper that reapocte itself had already said, once, bnt not more, that all London, exccpt three millions, was out of town. Thia remark is due to September : it is the tribute of the season and muat bs randered evory year. I know not when it waa firat diseovered. I have been aide to trace it back as ihv us the autumn of the year 1808, when Margate was crowded and Brighton overflowed, and all London, escept a niillion, was out of town. No doubt it began much earlier, bnt my humble researches have not traced it farthor back. When the wags and the wita of the Fortiea used it, they altered the million to a niillion and a half. Twenty yeara ago it became two milliona — it is now three. All London, except three millions, was out of town. The streeta of Bond, Regent and Piecadilly proscntod to gilded youth — auch as waa left — an appearance of deaolation complete : there were no carriages, and the shops, to those who rcmeiiilierod the season, had a faded and jaded look. Yet the atreets were füll of people : among them not a few country damsela who took London at the end of their August holiday, girls as bright and almost as good to look at as Althea herseif, refreshing to the soul with their beauty, their youth, and their eagernesa and curioaity. Laurence walked beeide Althea, Cassie generally a little be- biud. With her straw hat, her blue dreas and her aunny face, Althea looked aa if ehe bad come atraigbt from green fields, babbling brooka and ahady woods. Thia waa the reward con- ferred by Father Thamea upon one who loved bim long and atoadily, constant even through the fogs of autumn, the biting East-winds of apring and the thunder-atorms of July. The young man feit that pride in. hia miatress which is one of the fahrest jewala of love. All the world, he thought, muat be ready to worship her. Where was tbe meannese of the place in which she waa born and had been brought up ? Was it not able to tarnish ever so little the beauty and brightness of thia fair crea- ture ? Esternal meannesa, my friends, has no more to do with the root of the matter than the frame has to do with the pictnre. What matter för the squalid streeta if they were peopled by thegirl with the noble figures of the past? What für the rough folk around her if tbe bouse within echoed AN AFTERNOON ON LEAVE 343 with the great words and the aweet songs of the Poets and JJakers ? What matter for the sordid lives aronnd her if thia girl's soul was liited high above them ? No touch of the mean- ness clung to her. They caade slow way down the atreet of shops, because even at the faded and jaded t'iine thorc is always so great and splendid an axhibition. ' Oh, but you havo scen it all befbre,' said the girl, looking 11 p from a ilream of lovely eolonrs. ' It is a shame to keep you here so long.' 1 No : we are came liere expressly for yon to See it. I am happy only in looking ou,' said La,urence, softly. ' It is all so beautiful,' she said. ' The people so well-dreaaed : the broad streets : and the aplendour of the sbops ' ' Ton like everything,' ho replied. ' You are at preaent un- critical. The time will come when you will be loss easily ploased.' ' Yea : I like everything — the dresses and the bonnets. Look, Cassie, at that lovely costume — and the glove shops — and — oh I look at these things in brass — andthepeaoheaandgrapea. There is only one thing I do not like ' 1 \Vhat is that ? ' 'Therows and rows of photographa of girla — who can they be that can bear to bave thetr likenesaea exposed for everybody tosee?' 1 They like it,' said Cassie from professional esperience. * The more people look at them the better they like it.' ? Now that you have been slowly down the street,' said Law- rence, 'yon mnst let mo take you to a place whare we can get Borna of the pretty things you havo admired.' No one will understand how two girls could have arrived at the age of twenty without ever going a-shnpping. Yet it waa most true. One of them, you sce, hnd hardly ever aeen a shop, and the other had never been able for lack of money to tise the Bhope as their proprietors moat deeire. You oannot go Shopping with a ahilling. Laurence took them to a very fine establisbment atthelower end of Regent Street, where they wore received by a gentleman of extraordinary politencss, who ofTered them chairs and called a most good-uatured aml obligifig yotuu; man who made nothing of showing thüui all kiurls ufln-Niatilni things. They atliiiit'ed so lunny tliiugs that when they came away there was an immense heap of gloves, neckties, Imndkprchicfs. ruffs, bottlca of eau-de. Coln^ne. Iiu-e. sIovc-1j!ixi' , s. lmutllif'ivliii'-f-lidsojä, anduo oneknowB what pretty things besides, all lying piled on the counter. And they wäre so inuch occupied that they did not observe bow Laurence received a certain docnment, ictnrnedit with twocriap matling pieces of papcr, and wrote an address on a eard. »I I 244 THE BELL OF ST. PÄUL'S Then tliey went into Piccadilly and from Piccadilly into Bond Street. Theie thie young man took tlieiu into anotber shop. It was not in tlio least like the shop they had just lcft ; within there was a place like a professional man's consulting-room, and outaide nothing in tbe window but a diaraond spray and parure on a red volvet cusHon. They were received bya thoughtful person who appeared to be benevolent in. intention. Laurence explained that he bad two or three things to buy for hia mother, and begged Althea to assist him witb her taste in tho soloction. The thinga consisted of a bracclct, a ncekla.ce, and a ring, and they were all three set with emeralds. ' Nest,' he said, ' I have to get a watch and chain. Will yoa ehoose them, Caasie, for ms ? Just, you know, the kind of watch and chain which youwould lue for yonrself.' When Cassie had chosen onc, he threw tbe chain round her 1 It wae for yourself,' he said. The girl's cyes dimmed with the tearful sense of kindness. As for tbe neeklace and the ring and tbe brätelet, he put them all into his pocket and camo a.way without glving anything at all to Althea, which seemed to Cassie just a little disappointing. For one thing tnis young man must be envied and admired, Whenever he went into Shopland, where there was a chanoe of niceting young ladies of his acquaintance, he slways carried a Eocketful of money, just as great men and rieh nierthants of the ist Century were never without long pmses filled at both enda with guineas. In these degenerate days a highwayman on Hounslow Heath would get not.hingbut a leatber purse with two or three pounds in it and perhaps a Waterbury watch with a steel chain— not worth the trouble of a ' Stand and Deliver." Forinarly, a gentleman's purse was always good for fifty guineas at leaat. When Lord Nelson went into action in TrafalgarBay, he carried ninety guineas in his pockot, to meet, I suppose, the casual espenses — the petty cash — of the action. It was a good old custom and it deserves to be revived, if only to give young men the opportunity of realising tbe pnrest and moat innocent pleasure in the world — that of rr.aking a girl happy for the moment with tbe posseaaion of a pretty thing. ' What sball we eee nest ? ' Laurence asked. 1 If you are not tired,' said Althea, ' let us go to a picture- gallery.' They went to the National Gallery, the Art collection where the Art-Critics and the artistic and the sathetic people are never seen, This afternoon they had it all to therueelves, eave for the hapless painters who hang about the Gallery in hopes of gotting a oommiasion to eopy. The artistic trainingof all three.it must be owned, wanted finish, Ab für tbe young man, be came from AN AFTERNOON ON LEA VE nhe City of Sydney whitber there go, I believe, every year many fine picturea : at the Game tiiue the young gentlemen of Sydney, in matters of art, do not consider themselves bb having quite the Barne advaniajjes aa those of London. This being so, it is not ?wonderful if the three artlessly regarded oll tho pictures alike from the story-telling point of view. Exactly the Haine thing may be ob served every j-earin the Roy a] Acadtmy, be cause many of the moat enthusiactic followors of Art have never got beyond the story-telling point of view. For enjoyment, they probably found as mueh in the Gallary as the; l'mest Critic there. Thera are many pictures in the National Collection which teil really beautiful stories, and these, particularly where the colours had not qoite faded, gave the girls a new aetise of delight. Wheano story was told they passed over the picture without reforence to the painter even if it were Raffaelle himaelf. Caaaie, as became a peraon professionally acquainted with the great Mystery of Photography, with Carte or Cabinet, Piain or Colouxed, perhaps allowed herseif sojne small airs of superiority. ' It haa all been beautiful,' Althea eried as they came out and stood under the porch looking out upon the Square. ' It is won- derful. Come, Cassie, we will go home. Thank you, Mr. Waller, you muat let üb find our own way home.' ' Indeed,' said Laurence, ' we have not nearly finished. There is a great deal inore to be done. Wliy, wo muat have dinner to begin with.' The girls laughed and yielded. They had already dined, as we have eeen, off cold mutton and apples and cream. But who could res ist this masterful young man ? He took them to a restaurant, one of the quiet kind, as you go up Regent Street on the left hand. There he ordered such a dinner as had never before entereil into the hnagination of either. These poor girls had never really dined — you cannot dine in the middle of the day : you may eat pleasantly, as you may etoke the engine with necessary fuel, but you eannot dine. Then again, these girls had never before been inaide a restaurant, and it ifl very well known that there are few thinge which country girls, and those who have lived in aulmrban retirement, inore ardently love than a dinner at a restaurant of the brightorkind. Ab for girls not liking an artistic dinner, that is the nonsense of the old sentimental kind, wheo they were supposed to eat nothing. At home, it is true, they never get an artistic dinner ; a leg of mutton well hung and well roasted with an Apple Charlotte to follow is the best dinner they ever get : and a pretentious dinner- party with a suocession of ill-mado dishes is their worst ; but a truly artiatie, iesthetic, beautiful dinner they never have the chance of getting except at a restaurant. The pretty litrle dishea : thauueip^-eteddiBcoveries: the daintinesBoftheserving: 246 THE BELL OF ST. PAULS the things of which they had read, euch as innEhroomBandoiives, now exhibited for the first time : the green things not piled up in great china bowls as at hörne, but in htüo dishos tenderly and lovingly as if they were thinga precioua. aa indeed they are : the gateaux and puddinga, the ereanisand jelliesandices : the glass of Champagne that so aweetly tills the brain — all these thinga belped to make thia dinner joyous. And they all three laughed at nothing and talked mvrily and were bb happy as yotlth and everyt hing that youthmoatdesireBcouldmake them. It was the happinesa which disappoars and becomoa impoBsible after five- and-twenty, to all the world escept to thoae who linger and worship in the Courts of the Temple of Art— and they never grow old or lose thia power of joy because they never cea^e to live with the young, It waseiglit o'clock when the head-waiter brougbt coSeeand the bill. II the girls had aeen the addition and r&alised the aum of money gone to make that Little feaat they would have been amitten with remurse. But they did not aee. Outside, anoihcr cab was waiting them. This time, indeed, they thought they weve going home. But no : the cab stopped before a brilluinllv lii'lik-.i purlii.1 niul Lnuyence nprang out. ' It ia only a quarter paat eight,' he said, ' we are in very good The girla were passive now. They got ont and followedhim. It was a theatre, and ueith-cr of them had ever been at the play before. Laurence took them to a bo:x where they sat speochlesa except between the Acta. Oh I The acted etory — how wonderful it was 1 Oh I The heroine how aweet and the lover how teuder and the villatn— oh! the villain 1— Somo people might criticise theacting and the dialogue; theae two saw nothmg but the story. In a box opposita aat the author who had dropped in, having nothing eise to do, and found intereat enough in watehing the two girls on the other side who never took their eyes off the atage and showed in their faces the play of the passiona which he had created. Then he went home in a rapture and proudly aaid to himself, ' Ipse feci 1 ' At half-past eleven they renched the honae in Hew Thamea Btreet. Caaaie said good-night and walked on, perhapa with Intention, perhapa because it was really too lato to be lingering on the door- ' You have had a pleasant day 1 ' asked Laurence, holding Althea'a hund for a moment, 1 Yea — yea — Oh, a mofit delightful day.' 1 Althea,' he whispered, ' teil rne, are you— are yonengaged to Oliver Luttrel ? ' the AN AFTERNOON ON LEAVE ?nd fehl No — co— no.' 8ha snatcheii away her hand and ran into the house before he could aay another word. There are Bome days, Caaaie,' aaid Lanrence, ' which enn never be forgotten. This is one ofthem.* They were alone, becauae everybody eise was in bed and he was taking the refresliment of tobaeco and a potash. 1 Ican never forget it. Nor ean Althea. And ob I Mr. Waller, why did you give me thie lovely watoh 1 ' ' I will toll you why before long. Ton think Althea waa happy?' ' I am anre ehe was. How could she help being happy ¥ Oh I It was lue a dream.— And it is all over 1 And I am a photo- grapher'a girl again looking out for another place — And you will go away again and then we ahall be ton timea aa dnll and dreary as we were before you carae. But oh ! ' — she laid her hand upon hie — ' what does it matter abont OB, Mr. Vt aller, if only you and Althea go away together 1 ' chapter xxm: Ip Lanrence went again tha next morning to the Poet'a etudy, which oannot be denied, it was by special invitation— aay, com- mand — of the Maater. It muat not be thought that he haunted tbe place. To be eure, ha lingered long after he had paid liis daily tribute of generoua appreeiation ; and that waa in a laud- able hope of Unding an opportun! ty for aeeing and talkiog with Althea. He had loat a moat be&ulü'u! DhaOMfiurf htst night had giveD him — your true lover is always ßnding and losing and finding again such opportunities, for the mood muat euit the time and the oecaaion inust find tbe mind ready : and he who moat truly lovea finde it the hardeat to apeak and aometimea the maiden rune away. But the Ood who provides the oppor- tunity takea long to forgive when one ia thrown away. Lanrence had to go at last without aeeing his miatreaa. Thua he was punished : and thua for a few days more Love oontinued to puniah him. Althea waa, in fact, all the morning in her own room. She waa on the ataira about to deaeend when ehe heard her lover'a footetep. Tben she ran back and atood unseen upon the landing, and liatenod while he walked into the study and greeted her m blushed becauae ehe knew very well that he waa : 4 8 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S coine in the hope of eeeing her — however great inight he his admiration of her father'e genius : she trewbled because sha knew what he wanted to say to her and because ehe still feit the wann pressure of his hand, and heard his voice, soft and sweet. She sat down and Üstened. The wbola niorning through ehe sat listcning; from the room below canio up the eadenced droning of her futher's voice, white he read his poems: once or twico there was an interruption — a word or two— from his com- panion. Then the sing-song of the voice began again. All the morning through ; and she had no desire to do anything : ehe did not Lire, listening and thinfcing, and waiting. She sat quite etill, her handa in her Up, with the grneious sinile upon her lips, and the seriolis light in her eyes. whicb belong to woman at her best. The effect of the smiling lip and Üie serious eye has never yet, ho far as I know, boen produced by mere nian. If the mascnline pereon is happy, he laughs : if he is quite young or yet but half civilised, he laughs and capers and sings : he even ties on a horae's tail and claps horns on his head and takes a double flute, and, in the guise of a Satj-r, dances round an Etruscan Vase. But the Woman who has mado him happy, looks on with serions eyes and smiling lips. When Lauronce at long tu departod, Althea opeoed her door and went downstairs, her face eomposed and grave : nor could any one guese the tumult and the jo v that filled her eoul becauee now she knew indeed that she was loved and because she was ready to give her lover all he asked, her heart, her thoughte, her life, her very eoul. Her father, thinking that all these tbing3 were his own and going to remaiu his own — such is the fondness of a paront and so great is the Belfishness of man — infonned her that he had passed a delightful morning and that his friend, Mr. Waller, really seemed as if he could not keep away froni that Templo of the Muse — 'And yet, my dear. with so profound a love for poetry, he lacks entirely, he teils me, the power of poetic espression. It ia, hideed, surprising 1 ' Laurence wondered where ehe could be : when he left the poet he looked into the opposite room — Althea's worlt-box stuod on the table but she was not there. She was perhaps on the river. But no: the tide was at its lowest; her boat lay wretched, ashamed, self-conscious, upon the mud. Was she by chance sitting with Cassie ? No, Cassie was sitting by herself, her head in her hands, abandoned to meUncholy reßections and the natural flatness of things after a day of festivity. Before her on the table lay the 'things' whieb had now arrived : there they were — the lovely chiffons, the gloves and the glove-boies and the bottles of scent, — yet they failed to bring her comfort. Girls may amuse thenisclves with gauds at times : yet they know very well that after all there is but one ii the world whicb is of real importance. Ami that had nothing to do with the pile of pretty things lipon tbe table. ' Oh, Mr. Waller,' ehe cried, * to tbiuk that you have bought all these things ! ' ' Thoy ara for Althea and for you. Bnt you will give Flavia Sonic, ofthem.' 1 If I had had them a month ngo they would have made ma happy. Bnt oow ' 'Now, Cassie, you have learned that the World ia much wider than it aeemed, and you have observod tbat it contains lnany thousands of young inen ' 'Ohl' she cried, 'you don't know. How ehould you know?' It was a cry of pain. So Ariadme might have wept over the beada wbich came too late to please her. ' If auch things could moke yon happy, Cassie,' said Laurenee, 1 you ahould have the whole shopftiL' She shook her head mournfully. Observe that with her aister Flavia ehe atill carricd herseif with an affectatlon of havicg nothing on her raiud. She would not confess to the companion of her whole lifo, fiora whom ehe had never beem Beparated ; but to this young man, this atrangor, ehe told all, And yet he did not love her nor did he preteud to love her. Perhaps a girl may find it easier to confess to a man than to another woman: men are alwa-ys ready to judge a woman kindly and ara quick to find excusea for her. Perhaps thero was a certain sympathetic power in this young man whieh made bim fraternal. He Btood over her, looking down with cyea of pity. ' Casaie, my child,' he aaid. ' The other girl — the one who was tricked so infamously, you know, by & wretch — directly she nnderatood what an amazing Wrotca he really was, shook him out of her heart, just as she might have ahaken a viper off her dress. Theu she wert her own way aad presently began to sing again just as if nothing had happcned.' ' Oh ! you don't know,' she repeated. 1 To be sure, ahe went quite away from him— a long way off — where she would never see bim again and never haar anything moro abont him or be reminded of him.' ' Oh 1 To go right away — never to be reminded any more ! ' 1 Tes — would you like to go away ? ' ' If 1 should like I But it is no uae. And besides how could I leave everybody — Althea and all 1 ' 'Ah! How to leava Althea? well— oourage — and a little patience yet. Courage 1 I feel almoat aa if my Christian name was Claudius. Shall I prophesy a little 1 But no : best wait a little.' 2jo THE BELL OF ST. FAUL'S He left her and walked away. Hia wandering steps led him round about the streeta of Poet and Player Land where Althea had walked with him. She was with him still in imaginalion. He heard hervoice'Hereia the Bear Garden : thisis thefamoua Eoae Theatre and here ia the Globe where thcy are plsying " Macbeth " thia yery hour.' Presently, having been in a dream, he awoke and fonnd him seif in tlie Bridge Road and oppoaite the houae whiiis bore Kri od* the annouraement that J. Mayea had succeeded S. Norbery. He reroembered bis promiae to call again and he knoeked at the ofhce-door. Mr. Mayea was, as usual, engaged in caating up acconnta with the assistaiioc of a fat forefln^or. 'Ohl' he aaid looking tip. ' It'a yon, ia it? Yon'ra tha young gentleman from Auatralia. Well, Sir, and what might you be wanting now ? ' ' I have merely looked in, Mr. Mayea, aa I promiaed, juat to aak how you are getting on with that eoorch — al'ter the will, yon know, that you signed thirty yeara ago.' ' Eight yeara ago, you mean. 1 ' No, thirty yeara ago, if yon please.' Observe that by continually reading tha will, repeating the datea, and obaerving the circuinatanceB aa they muet ha^e happened, coupied with electric treatment, Mr. Mayea thought himself graduallyarrivingat b. diatimt recolleetion of the eventa. The outlinca of his picture wore a little blurred and the whole thing had etill a tendenoy to b«come a dissolving view. Now at the reminder of that othor event whieh ho remembered without any Umring of outline at all, the imaginary picture dissolved immediately and Mr. Mayea feil back into that quagmire of bewilderment from which he thought he was gradually lifting himself. 1 1 aay eight yeara, 1 he repeated. Bnt he grow red in the face. ' What do you know about it? What's thegoodof talking to you about it ? ' ' I aee. If you had fonnd the paper yon would have told me. Go on looking for it.' ' Perhapa I'vo found aomething a good deal more important, Mister. But that's my busineBa. If you've nothing more to say- ' ttflM 1 Nothing more.' 'Then, Sir, you needn't waate my time any longer. My time is my money.' 1 Pity, then, that there are only twenty-four honrB of money to spond. Good moming, Mr. Mayes.' Lanrenoe crosBßd the Bridge slowly, with the faint hope that he might meet Althea upon it. But she waa not there. He looked down npon Thames Street : perhapa ehe was oa her way : THE DAY AFTER 351 from St. Leonard le Siza. The atreet was very füll of people all rusbing about and the Dir was darkened by bales and caaka being hoistod to the npper floora of warohoueeB i but he could not see Althea anywhere. In fact ahe was at that momeut sitting at the early dlnner with her father and hör uncle, graciously diapensing with liberal hand an autumnal plum pie, which moderne weakly call plum tart. The bafliod lover turned hia etepa weatward, and walked through the City. When he got into Fleet Street he remenibered the very remarkable reception or ovation aceorded to the Poet. And in order to clear up a certain auapicion he bought a Spotting Paper. Yes : it waa as he auspected, The Poet waa indeed a populär favonrite — the youth of New South Wales aro not altogether to seek in the matter of aport — no more EDpular favourite had been known for rnany yeare. Yet Mr. ndagino had hastily jmnped to ft ooaolusioa not warranted by the facta. For, in fact, the escitement waa cauaed by an approaching event in which Fleet Street was intorested from one end to the other, with every laue, court, alley, printing-preafi and newapaper office. In thia event the Poet waa to play a part : and the event was a duello : and the Poet was the deacriptive name by which the favourite was known : and profeaEionally he was a prize-nghter. Thia point cleared up, Laurenee drove to the Club of which Le waa a temporary member, and sat there all the afternoon, writing to hia mother a faithful account of inost that hadpaaeed — not all, because a young man cannot teil everything to his mather — not even if he ia a Frenchman. And, aa regarda Althea in connection with the wiuged boy, Laurenee aa yet preserved ailence. CHAPTER XXIV. CLAUDIA AND FLAV1A. only ipee In the evening he remembered Claudia's invitation. The Pro- pheteaa lived in a amall houae near hör own chapel — that ia to eay, in Union Street. Her houae was distinguished from the reat in the daytime partly by the fact that it ia the only private house — the reat being ahopa— and partly by ita cleanlinesa, its freah bright paiat, the boiea of flowera ia the windowa, and the white doorstep. How could one who propheaieB preaent eo dingy an exterior aa her more obscnre neiyhbours ? If one ia only a workman employed in Barclay and l'erkins', and ia not lelally diatinguishcd DJ gifts spiritual, and never goea to Church 252 THE BELL OF ST. PAULS r Chapol at all, it matters very little if the landlord does rcfuse o paint the honse, and if the doorstep continnes black. Indeed, akhough so oscellent an exampla is offcred in Redeross Street close by, it muat be confessed that testhetically Union Street is ßtill tu, very far, bebind Bedford Park. The door wa,B op eil ed by a neat little maid in the w hütest of caps and aprons. She was a meraber of the congregation, and she thought it the highest privilcge in tho world to bo atlowed to work t'or the Prophetess, Bieter Claudia, and a cause for laudablo pride andupliftiug. She might, also, bsn pii-jut -d haaeil, bad ehe choeen, upon being tha only aervant in the whole of the street, and of mauy adjacent atreets, but thia kind of pride — pride Statistical— teinpted her not. Mostly she watchtd her mistreas and antieipated bor wants, made her tea atrong and Berved her toast hot, kept her thinga tidy and the honse «Iran ; lisli Tied tu her in Chüpel find wondered how it was done, and hoped that she herseif might some day — but that was the hope common to all the sisters of the Eariy Church. If one woman he so gifted, why not others P The girl recoived Lauxence as if she knew and expected ' Ton aro Mr. Waller,' ah« whispered, admitting bim , and cloaing the door noiselessly. ' Of course Sister Claudia knewyon, were Coming. This way. She is in her own rooin.' The narrow passage was covered with a thick earpet, which made their footstepa noisoless : the house eeeined profoundly eilent : a lamp atood on a bracket with a coloured ahade over it, which lent aa unreal and mnterioni ligbt. Laui'enee began to feel as if he were bems comku'ted to tho ^hriuo ol" Apollo 's own Prophetess by an attendaut Virgin, one ofthose who suxrounded the Oracle and biul ilowerä upon the altar. The girl gently opened the door of what, in former daya, would have been oalled the back parlour, and Uited a heavy ourtain which hung across it withiu, motioning to Laurence. He obeyed and entered. He found himself in a room which, to begin with, was full of flowers. Flowers were in vasea on the nianlelehelf and on the table and on the low bookeaso. Tho ah- was heavy with their perfome. The room wus furnished with a sofa, an easy chair, and three or four ordinary cbairs; a largo Biblo lay open on tbe table : heavy curtains hung across the window and the door : thora was a fire in the grate though tbe evening was not co!d: and Sister Claudia sat in tho easy chair beeide it. Amoiig the Urethren it was well known that those who sat in Sister Clandia'a room began presently to experience miny aingular sensations. Their experience ditfcred. Some of wein were oontented to feel their heads go round : othors declared that they lost themselvea altagether, and were rapt in vieions. ieeing thiugs ineffable: otherä, again, heard voiees whispering words of infinite comfort and joy unspeakable, but no one could icmember, after wards, what they were : others declajed that the hoarts of ttue believera glowed within theui while they sat in that rooin : and so nie thcre were who testifiod tlmt they had even been raoved by the innuence of the place and the presence of the Prophetess to repent and to oonfdss their sins on the spot. One thing at least was certain : that the rooin was always fall of flowers, and that there was always a fire u Urning, and that the air was always that of the hottest room in a conservatory uf tropical plants. As for Laurence, he fonnd the atmospliero so hot and heavy, that while Sister Claudia was greeting him and pressing his hands, he feit dkay and faint. The Utile eweet-voioed woman in the black silk dress, who murmured so gracious a welcome in a musical whieper, seemed as if ehe and her room and her voiee and all belonged to a dreara. ' Cousin Laurenee,' she said, ' I knew yon. would come to- llight. Not by any gut or vision. Not at all. I claim nothing ofthat kind, you. understand. Felis — you know that great son of mine — told mo you had come back— and I said to myself, " He will spend the first day with his friends in New Thames Street and he will call on me the day after." I was right. Sit down — the room makes you a little giddy, perhaps. That is because I always liko my room warm. And the scent of the flowers is heavy. Sit down, It will pasa away.' The giddiness did pass in a few moments. When Laurence eame to himself Claudia was murmuring pleasantiy — what had ehe been talking about 7 And ehe was laughing softly and musically — a cheerful sympathetic laugh, as one who hae a feel- ing for youth and the world, and not in the least like one who is a recluee, a saintiy abbess, or the Head of a Connection, 'I knew that you would come, Laurence— I ehall call yon Laurence, just as if I had known you all mylife — let melook at you again. I have only Been you once before, you know, when you came to the Chapel with Flavia. Yes — yes— youareLucy'B child. Ton have her eyes — but they are more like Florry's : and her mouth— yet thatis more like Florry's, as well. But yon are so Uli — so tall. Lucy was a little woman. All the women in our family are little. And look at my great ginnt of a son. \Vhy, he is bigger than you. And how is my Cousin Lucy after all these years ? ' ' She was very well when I heard by the last mafl. My futher, you know, hae greatly prospered and we are rieh people.' "Lucy richl' she laughed pleasantiy. 'Oh! poor Lucy — t a cbange from the old days 1 Lucy rieh and dressed in ; und everything, with her ows eervants ! I can hardly 2J4 THE BELL OF ST. PAULS widerstand it. Well, I am very glad. You ahall teil me all about it. I am very glad. Teil her, Laurence, that I said so. I was never a party to the coolness. It was all Cornelia** doing. Bhe took a huff becaiiso sbe thought Lucy ahould not have gone to Mr. Norbery without Consulting na,' ' Oh ! ' said Laurenoe, ' it was ever so long ago. Surely it must be forgotten by this time.' The wiae woman shook her head. ' You don't know the world,' ehe said. ' You are young. Cousins and siiäters don't forget slights. We never spoke to Lucy after that, and when she married we were not even told of it, let alone being invited to the wedding, which we had no rightto expoct and no call to complaiii about, as I always told Cornelia.' ' I am sure my mother haa long since forgotton ' 1 All I can say is that after the way Cornelia behaved to your mother I was aurpriaed — I waa indeed— when I heard that you'd gone to stay in the very honsa. I thought she would have had more apirit. Quite aurprised I waa.' This familiär talk, in auch a place, which only wanted an altar, a pot of incense and a tripod or ao to make it a most beautiful eella or innermoat unnctuury, Struck Lanrence with a senae of incongruity. But even a Prophetesa muat have aome ?ort of social Position to begin with, and when Claudia was a girl a great daal of family conversation turned upon the behaviour of their cousins and their frienda. Few of tbem, in her oircle, consistcntly lived up to the lofty Standard required byVieeaimuB Cottle. In such casea it waa due to Cornelia, the eldeat daughter, rathor than to Claudia, to let them know and feel the reality and consequenees of llwlil hackslidmgs. Thereforo Lucy'a aina, whatever they had been, were followed and punished by a cool- ' So Lucy baa done wel To look at you it is pretty oertain that she has done well. I am very glad. Does she ever talk about us and the Bank and ol<2 timea ? ' ' She told me to aeek out my oousins and to do für them any- thing I conld, provided they want any help. Äs you know, T have not yet told them wbo I am.' * It waa kind of Lucy. But she always had the best heart in the world. Dear mel Lucy I Florry t It aeema Itke yeater- day when we were all young together. Lucy and Florry ! How pretty they were, both of them ! Oh, my dear boy, if I conld onlv show you that pretty pair as they were when they were eighteen and nineteen. But there 1 A son oan never know what his mother was hke when ehe waa young. It is a sad thing for her to think of when she is old and has lost her beauty. Florry waa the prettier of tho two, according to somo — of courae we shall be beautiful agiiin in the world to couie. But thot CIA UD/A AND FLA VIA But yet — Florry waan't eo eeriona and bo ateady aa her Bieter, though ahe certainly waa prettier. Poor Florry 1 Poor dear Florry I ' ' What became of her ? ' 'I don't know,' Claudia replied ßhortly. 'Don't ask me. If any one knows it's Cornelia. Julia waa fandest of Lucy, but Florry was my favourite, poor thingl And now we are all old women. I am past fifty now, and so is your mother — and — ' the teare came into her ayes. ' Tho aight of you bringe back the old timea, my dear boy. Ton are bo handsome and so tall, and you are so like your aunt Florry though ehe wae so little. Well — you came to find na out and to offer üb help if we wauted it.' She took his band agaio and presaed it in motherly faahion. ' Ab for me I want no help. My peoplo keep me. Though we are not rieh, we sbare what we have and it is euough. But on the Bank I am afraid they will be soon in Bad Btraits. My brother Lucius oannot find another place : it was a thousand pities that ho was not brought up to aomothing— but the Academy feil off Badly towarda the end : all the respectable boys went to St. Olave'a and St. Saviour'a — and there waB no monsy. And Caasie has loat her place, too. How they are all going to live I oannot teil. If they have to seil the bouee it will be like parting with all the hiatory and the dignity of the Family. That would be dreadful, and we have been so re- spectable, Laurence,' ehe added patheticolly. ' We have, in- deed. Nobody was ever more looked up to than rny father and your great-uncle.' ' I hope they will not have to Bell the honae. We will oon- sider and do what we can. I will oonsult you." ' Thank you, Laurence. You are so strong and tall that it makes one feel you are able to do everything. And now I do want your help — for Felis — for my bod.' ' I have already had a long tallc with Felix. He wants to go to Auatralia.' ' Yea, my poor boy ia not happy. I thought it was a good thingfor him when he got into the Accountant's Department of the Brewery, but ho doosn't like deak work. I teil Vi im ho can't be always running racea and playing footbalL He wants an out. door life." ' Perhaps my father oould help him to that.' 1 Thon be freta becanse of Caasio. The poor boy has been in love with bis cousin all Ha hfe. He ueed to call her hia wife when they were only little thinga. And she ie apretty girl, isn't sbe ? I waa like her once. Oh 1 I don't wonder at it. Boya are so. And he freta beoause of the Chapel. He will never have a right feeling for the Connection unleaa he goes away, when perhaps he niay reniember it. He likes St. Saviour'i THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S bötler although hia mother haa taken the place she now ool The mother aighed. The Prophetess sat up and amilod v... conscious pride. It wae indeed a unique position which ahe occupied. ' Take him away with you, Laurence. I will let hiin go willingly, eveu if I uever see him again, eo long aa it ia for hia own good, If he staya here, what with bis rage against the yonng man who has behaved so villainoualy, and hie galling office work, there will be mischief done.' ' He ahall go with me, if he likea,' aaid Laurence. ' My father will und aomething for him to do.' ' Ab for that young man— evil will fall upon hiin : judgment will overtake mm : remember that. Be aurpriEed at nothing. But remember I told you that the nngodly should fall into the trap that he had laid for others.' Then ahe feil to talking qnite freely and uaturally about her boy and of what eould be made of him and how he was the best of sous, though not aa yet eonverted, and of what a splendid succesa he would inako of lifo if he only had a fair atart fl BO forth, the PropheteBa being entirely lost for the moment. I while ahe spoke other voices were heard ontside the door and the curtain wae pulled aaide, and Flavia appeared holding by the band— in fact dragging by the band — the Chevalier. ' Xou here, Mr. Waller ? ' Hhe cried in astoniahment. ' But uever mind. I don't care if all the world knows, though I Ithought I would teil Aunt Claudia firat.' ' What has happened, Flavia 1 Don't teil me that you hava lost your place as well aa your aiater.' ' No, I haven't, Aunt. My place ia my own and I mean to keep it. Aunt Claudia, I can't stand it any longer.' 1 Well, Flavia 1 ' 'Oh,' she replied breathlessly, 'I have told him what I think and though I've had a world of trouble to perauade him to it he's come round at last and I've brought him here to talk it over with you.' The Chevalier bowed hi« head gravely. Then he took Flavia's hand and raieed it to hia lips, with the politeneas ex- pected of his rani. Ab for tho girl her fluahed cheek and bright eyea clearly showed that aomething quite unusua! had happeced. Whatever it waa it beautified her. She was carried out of her- seif; ahe no longer had the air of eonacious propriety whioh generally reminiled ose of her aunt Cornelia. 1 Oh ! Chevalier,' ahe murmured out of a füll heart. Then, tiashing into a spirit which no one would ever have suspected of her — 'Aunt Claudia I I doclare there ian't such a good man ia all the world aa the Chevalier. No — there ian't, and there ian't a man in the world so put upon and ill-treated. He has been müde a slave — yes,a alave — a white slave — by that Wretch who tot CLAUDIA AND FLA VIA 257 I'etends that he is his clerk, and Isn't fit to black tho Chevalier 's oota. The man makes him eweep ont the office : he makes him, actually as if he was a General at teil pounds a year, buy the food and cook it : yes, he makes him get ready breakfast, dinner and supper with his own hands— the Chevalier ! Think of it ! And all the rest of the time the Wretch makes him work at the desk. And no pay at all— or next to none. Nothing but his keep. And look at his clothes 1 They are in rage. He hasn't got but two pairs of socks and not I wliole shirt left anii he has to make hie own cloth shoes because he can't afford to buy a new p'r o' boots. Oh I The poor Chevalier ! ' ' Well, my dear ? ' asked Claudia quietly. 1 Annt Claudia,' ehe took breath and eonsidered a moment, I thought the Connection would have interfered. But they are too poor. I've spoke to Brother Matthias and BiBter Tabitha but they both eay the Connection is too poor. So I just re- aolred with myself what to do.' ' What is it ? ' ' I think I oan guess,' said Laurents quietly, ' He's a man who oujdit to have a lectiiro room of his own to speak in, He is brimful and bursting with the message that is in him. Oh I Aunty, even you yourself on a Sunday erening haven't got a more splendid message to deliver.' Tho Chevalier shook his head grarely, but whether in denial or not is not known. ' For it is not only the Gospel of Love— you taught him that — but the Gospel of Love applied to lifo — to all our lives and to all the work of the World. Not only to saving our own souls, but to altering tho wholo world. You must hear htm talk. He is nothing better than a prisoner now. And he is old. If he is kept in bis prlson much louger he will die. If wo set him free, he will live a great many years perhaps and deliver his message.' ' Yce,' said Claudia, thoughtfully. ' If he really has such a message. But many bre thron and Bisters too have come to me declaring that they have a Message to deliver and they hadn't, my dear. They had nothing but the deaire to have a Message. Chevalier, what have yon to teil us ? ' The Chevalier lifted bis head and raised his band. Thea he spoke solemnly. ' Ihave toprench tho Equality of Christian Love. Not as you presch it, Sister Claudia, for the Bpiritual benefit of the brethren, but for tho matorial happiness of the whole world. I have to roako mankind love eaeh other, not only for the Bake of their heavenly Lord, but also for the sake of thejr brother- hood. Then all injustice will cease, all self-seeking and oppres- ?ions. You showus how to sare our soula, asFlaria said. I will show the world how to ss,ve their hves— by Christian love, by brotherly love. I shall take the doctrine of the EarlyCUurch r 358 THE BELL OF ST, PAUL'S out iiito the world and teaeh it over again to all mankind. W's all equala : wo are all brothera: there is none greater" and 18 lesa aonong na. Sister Claudia, Iwill setopen your doors: I will break down the walls of your Utile ehnpel 1 I will give to oll the world what you have given to the Connection.' ' It is well spokon,' said Sister Claudia, watching him with eyes that looked füll of fixe in the crimson light of the lamp. 'I dreamed,at first, of lectnringon HumanityanditB Rights. Bnt I dow aee that I was providentially restrained. I must preach, not lecture. I mnst oe an Apostle, not a Professor. It is by Apostlea that the cause ia advanced, and an Apostle may be a martyr.' ' You gave meyour card once, Chevalier,' said Laurence. ' I had forgotten it. I will find you a Hall to begin with if you please.' Bat the Chevalier paid so attention to thia Interruption. ' The Time haa come,' ne said, ' and the Mcans. As for tho Meana, Flavia haa told you. I would not at first consent, foi ehe ia twenty and I am aeventy. There soemod too great a difference between üb.' 1 He ia ordy forty-nine years and nine montha and twenty days older tban me,' said Flavia. 'Difference? Nonsense 1 What'a that ? ' ' A girl, theo, haa been found — gracious, aelf.sacrifioing, noble — who will aet me free.' ' I am going to marry him,' said Flavia, calmly, ' It is the only way ont of it. I've got twenty-five Shillings a week : we shall make it enough. He ia the most frugal of inen and the kindest heart aa well as the noblest. Bnt I don't know what father will say.' ' What do you say, Chevalier 1 ' ' What can I say ? ' Te&ra stood in the nobleman's eyes. 1 She finda me in a prison : she offers to let me out : she finds me füll of my measage : ehe enablea me to deliver it : she is young and I am old : my time for Love ia over, yet she brings me Love : ehe sacrifiees herself to me. What tan I say ? What do you expeet me to say ? ' Clandia looked at Laurence. There were queations in her eyes. ' Yes,' he said, rising. ' I will leave these lovers with you, Siater Claudia. Perhaps they conld do no better. Flavia, you uuderatand what you are doing. Yes, I am sure you do. You will make thia good man happy. I do not think that you will ever repent your aaerifice.' Then he laughed lightly. 'When you are the wife of the Chevalier what shall we have to call you?' ' I shall not take my husband's title,' said Flavia of the Tele- CLAUDIA AND FLAV1A rafft Department. ' I have maile up my mind to reroain simple [rs. De Heyn. In the Early Church, Aunt Claudia, tney dropped their titlea." o London oii a boliday,' Laurence addreased himself n hourlater, to Ihe Shade of VicesimuB in the Beet Bed Boom. ' I waB told to find out my cousins, and learn what they weie doing. 1 have now got a family, a whole fannly, a moat inte, reating family upon my handa, and I hope my mother will be Batisfied and pleaaed. I have also found,' he pauseil and amoked in meditation for 8 while, watching the amoke curling in the air, 'and I hope,' he added, not finishing his eentence, ' tliat my mother will be pleased with that aa well,' i, vei CHAPTEE XXV, AN INCREABE Tij 1 ? FAMILT. IT wai a sinjnilar circmnstanoe that all the miafortnnea of thia very reapectable family ahould arrive together, like \\ troop of oomediana, and that at the very time of the unknown oousin'a arrival. Consider. Before he came Luciua was happy in die poBBeBsion of hie Guaranlee, though buaineBB wm deplorable. Cassie tejoiced in the poasession of a lover and of a place where her eonduet and her pleasing mannera gave every Batisfaction. Fla via had not assumed the sole responaible Charge of an eider ly philanthropiat. Nay, more, Oliver had not been tempted : consequently, he had not fallen. To fall, without being tompteil, argues depravity. Altftea, happy girl, wag still fanoy free and could go forth to watch her ghosts upon the river and the river bank. Felix, even though he lovad hia cousin, was not consumed with wrath on her account, and if he disliked hia work, did hia best to conceal that dialike. And aa for Mr. Mayea he waa still abla to remember the witnesaing of Mr. Norbery's Will thirty yeara ago without the intrnsion of that vacant apace where another gronp ehould have been. Thoee who believe in the Evil Eye might have strcngthcnc J their faith by a conaideration of this caae. The famUy, large and interestmg aa it was, besame, as yon will now aee, larger and much more interesting. Nobodv, in facti can qnite understand the extent of hia own family, especially in that great claaa ealled the Middle, to whicn moet of ns have the hononr of bolonging. If one be^ins working baekwards and aidewarda, vertiöally and horizontal !y, quite Burprising reaulta iöo THE BELL Ol- ST. PAULS may be obtained, A M'IV Walk, a Baptist Cbapel, a Board School, a grocer'a shop, say, at Old Ford, a Company in a Lins Begiment, a blaoksmith'a forge, a Biahop's wife, moy be aprung npon the Family Tree when a member of the Middle ClasB beging to investigate. For the Middle Claas ia not only the backbone of the countvy bat n.lso the legs and the ribs and the Shoulders of it, and is intimatdy connected wich the toes and tha heela and the ankle joints of it. Therefore the discovery which Laurence was about to make, though it might be romantic, cowld not be cailed wonderful. The only wonderful thing about it was tho coincidence of ita happening the very day after a oertoin conversation. One who writee a novel would hcaitate to introduce auch a coincidence, but the piain hiatorian may aafely venture to do ao because in daily life they happen continually. Think. At breakfast yon have been talking of a man, a woman, or a eubject. After breakfast you put on your hat and walk abroad upon your daily businesa among the haunta of man. ProaenUy aometiüng happens to you directly concerned with that man, that woman, or tbat subject. You go home in tbe evening and you teil the atory, bcginning with the formula, ' Most remarkable coincidence 1 \\e were talking of Jack Scallawag thia very raorning, saying that it wob sgca since we heard what had become of him. When I got into town, there he waa at my office, and wanted to borrow ten pounda — confound him ! He didn't got it : bat — most remarkable coincidence 1 ' It waa therefore in no way remarkable, but only one of the natural iucidenta— the co-incidonta — of everyday life, that the very person ofwhom Siater Claudia was talking in the evening should turn up in the morning. Finding that Althea sat resolutely in the study with hfl* fathor, and resisted everyhint that ehe Bhonld ariae and go forth with him, Laurence gave it up, and wandered forth intn the City, where he pleased himaelf by Walking up one atreet and down another, lighting upon churches in unespected cornera, bita of churchyords, each as big as a dining- table, with tallware- housea round them, odd Squares and closes, sometimea with a tree or a pump in them, winding ianes, merchants' houses, solid and Buhatantial, dating from the Great Fire, towers atanding all by themeelves — there ia one in Mark Lune whioh, if it were in some old French town, oll the viaitors would crowd to see : and another in Thamea Street, without counting the flne old Tower of Hackney — and all kinds of tbinga, to the beouty of whioh Althea had educated hia eye. He roamed in perfect happineaa up and down Harp Lane, St. Mary-at-Hill, Rood Laue, Mincing Lane, Seething Lane, Crutched Friara, America Square, and tbe Minoriea. All theae nanues be knew, and it pleased him to read them at the cornera, and to aonnect them with their 'C •T Sb memoriea and the girl who had taught him all these curioita things. Then ha foimd himself in a labyrinth of streets whoae names told bim nothing — indeed there ia nothing in the name of Manaell Street to BUggest Goodman'a Fielda, or the old Tbeatre and David Garrick ; Hnydon Square haa no hiatory. Great Alie Street has, it ie true, a certain atrangenesa of natne which provokeB ourioaity— was Alie a girl— the toaat of White- chapel?— was there a Leaaer Alie aa well aa Alis the Great? Prescott Street, also mogAtisg Iü tteeU ihe title of Great, doea not point out the house where Cloudesley Shovel lived : nor doea it record the fect that hare the housea were fitst dia- tinguished by nmnbera inatead of si^u .;. Civilisatiou.like religion, apringa from the East and travela westward. Lanrence was beginning to tbink that a cab would take him in half an honr to Club and Lunch land, and that ho had perhapa done enough for one morning, and that thia particular preciuct waa leaa intereating than Borne others, when he became aware of a woman going alowly along on the other aide of tho Btreet. At Brat, he hardly remarked her — there are many poor women to be seen m this part of London. Next he bccame aware that he waa aomehow familiär with the figure. The -woman waa wretchedly olad — there are many women in London who are wretchedly olad : she crept along alowly, aa if ahe was feeble: Ehe hugged the honaes aa a ship may hug the ahore. Ey her carriage, by her walk, by her miserable clothes, you could diaoern the depths of her poverty and wretehedneaa. There are, however, a great many wretchedly poor women in London ; why did he seem to remember thia woman ? She stopped : on a dooratep la.y a thick nruat of bread, flung there by some child who did not vant it. She anatched it witb e.igerneaa and began ravenonaly to devour it. When ahe atooped, Lanrence saw her Inte — a face thin and van— he knew her then. It waa the poor woman who had come out of tho Chureh that morning when he viaited Cornelia. Althea knew the woman. She waa the Disgrace to the Family. Then — he knew not why — a vngno feeling of diaqniet aeized him— an unformed apprehension of he knew not wbat. He oroeaed the road awiftly and accostod the poor Creatore. ?I have seen you before,' he said. The woman looked np and ahook her head. 1 1 do not remember you, Sir.' ' You were Coming out of St. Leonard'a Churoh,' ' I go there sometimea.' • Ton look in trouble. Can I help yon 9 ? Can yon help me ? ' ahe repeated. ' Look at me ' Then,' said Lanrence, ' let me help you.' She apoke in a sweet low voice which reminded bim of some- ofB tou' 163 THE BELL OF ST. PAULS tliing — ha knew not what, Her oyes, wben sho lifted them, were limpid and large — they made him thiuk of Hister Clandia ; her face waa thin and wasted, but there were the tracea, umnistak. able, of bygone beauty upon her fine features. Her face pre- Bented noneof thesignsof degradationanddrinliwhichgenerally belong to peraona in theso truly rnelancholy circumatancea. She was slight of stature and narrow in the Shoulders — a Iittle woman who in her youth might have been one of those fairy.like woinen who do so mightily rejoiee the niaaculine eye, merely to see them walk or dunce, only to hear them laugh and Bing. As Laurence connected this pooe creature with youth and beauty, he thonght somehow first of Cassie and theo of Sinter Claudia. ' Miss Indagine knowB you,' he Said. ' You have at least one 'Ihad — But they turn ed me out of my room and now ehe does not know where to find me.' 'Why not teil her?' ' Because I am past her h«lp. She has no money to give me. And beaidea it would only ranke her more unhappy. When last she came she was very unhappy.' Were the very stones going to cry out upon this young man becaiiBe he ran away ? ' Where do you Üve ? ' he asked her. ' I have found a room in Tanter Street. But I don't know how long I sh&ll he able to keep it.' ' Will you take me to jourroom 9 At all eveatswe oould sit down and talk.' ' Sit down ? In my rooni ? ' She laughed Boomfully. Then she looked np quickly. ' Yon ahall come,' she aaid. ' Oh, yea I you ahall see my room. It will do you good to see my room. You are young and you are careleas. You shall rmderstand what niisery means. It will do you good to seohow welive — we who have nothing to wait and pray for but Death. And perhaps Death itself will make our fato no better. Comewithme — yon." She lifted her head and quiciened her step witli the strengen, that com es of sudden passion. But it lastod no longer than a fire of shavings. Her head dropped, her feet dragged— she feil into her former oamage of patience— the patience of sufforing, Laurenoe feit, as he looked down upon this poor bündle of rags, waa even more pathetic than the ßhort-lived flame of rage whieh had betrayed the miaery of her soul. Why did ahe suffer so ? What was her history 1 ' You are,' said Cornelia, ' the Diegrace of the Family.' What had this poor creature to do with the Family of Vioesimus CotÜe, the great and respeoted Academician of Bank Side 1 And again a, vaguo disijuiet seized bim, for he oftheFaauly. mi •h. AN INCREASE TO THE FAMILY 163 1 1 live here,' aaid the woman. ' You can eome npstairs with if you pleaae.' She led the way 11p the ataira, dirty, broken, etripped of the nisters, to the second-floor back, a small room which at all eventa ahoold have been light and airy. It was furnisbed with a kettle, a teapot and a teacnp. Nothing more. Nothing at all. Some traveüera have remarked upon the very small amonnt of personal luggage which ia wanted to carry an Eqaatorial African through life — a pipe, a bow and arrows, a spear, a piece of cloth, perhapa a knife or an axe. Bcally, nothing more. But there are people in London who have reduced their wanta to even smaller limite. Ä kettle, a teapot, a cnp, a plate, a knife. Nothing more. These simple things completed the furniture of the whole room. There waa nothing more — not even a bed, unlesfl a heap of shavinga in the oorner made a bed : not a chair or a table — Nothing. ' You see,' Said the tenant. * Thia ia where I live. Will you ait down and have a talk ? ' ' Oood Heavens 1 Are you so poor as Ihia ? I thought that oobody ' ' I dare say there are not many qnite ao poor aa myself,' she Baid. ' There eannot be many people in the world qnite bo poor 'Poor? But you are deatifrute. You have nothing. Not even a bed to sleep upon.' ? Not even a bed,' ahe repeatad. ' I am deatitute.' ' And you live here — quite alone ? ' ' Quito alone. No one in the honae knows me : no one ever Cornea here : I am quite alone in. the world. At night it doesn't matter, becauae I can sleep; but in the day it ia terrible to ait od tbe Soor with nothing to Ao. Theo I wander abont tbe etreeta. 1 ' But bow do you live ? ' ' SometimeB I get a little sewing to do— Backs and bags and thinga — I can work very well, bat the work is hard to get — there are so many poor women who can aew — I shonld get on if I had regulär work, becanse I can live on very little — oh I very little. For aweek and more I haven't even had my cup of tea. I wonder if you underatand what it ia — not even tohave acupof tea — and I have lived upon bread. To-day I had not even any bread left and I shonld have eaten nothing, if I had not picked up a ernst juat now. Perhape I ahall piok up another cruat by-and- bye. Sometünes there are Iota of crusta lying about in the etreeta.' ' And to-morrow 1 * To.morrow — oh I but you are going to give me Bomething,' laughed — a soft and pleasant laugh — yet not mirtbful — and 164 THE BELL OF ST. PAVL'S it disqnieted Laurence because i t made him remember aomething — he knew not wbat. ' Tos, I will give you aomething. Eut the day after and the day after that?' ' Once ii week I have a little piece of work tat which I get a Shilling. I clean and dust the church where Com — the chureh of 6t. Leonard in Thames Street.' ' Bat you cannot live od a Shilling a week.' I This rooin is only two Shillings a week — to be sore I am alreaily in arrears, and if tliey could find another tenant they would turn nie out very quickly. Wien I am turned out I do 10t know what will happeu.' ' Have you no friends at all ? ' I I have Cousins, but I must not go to 666 them. And Althea Indagine waa my friend, but I have lost her now because ehe does not know where to find me — no — I have no friends.' Laurence walked to the window and looked out upon the chimney-pots and the roofs. ' It ia terrible,' he aaid preaently, in hnsky acoents. ' How can a woman fall into such dreadful poverfy ? ' ' It is very easy,' ehe replieil ' Oh I you have no idea how very eaey it is. I eould show any girl the way, She has only to do eiaotly what I did, and in time she will fall into exactly the same misery.' ' What is your name ? Teil me who you are,' ' Oh 1 my name — my name. The people in the houae call me Mra. Sinclair. Why not f It doeB aa well as anythmg.' ' Where ie your husband ? ' ? I have nover had a husband.' She met his inquiring eyes with something like a blush and turned her head. ' No : I have never had a husband. But don't — oh I please don't teil Althea. Comeha calls me the Disgrace of the Family. So 1 am. Yea — yes — I am a disgrace to any family, and mme was so respekt- able— oh, bo respectable.' ' Who are you then ? ' cried Laurence, his cheeks suddenly burning with a dreadful thought. ' Teil me who you are.* 'You would not believe, would you? — that such a miseraUe thing coald ever belong to a respectable family — well then — ' but she atopped. 'I don't know who you are, Sir, I have pro- mised Cornelia that I would never let my old friends know any- thing ahout me. Ton were with Althea Indagine — you don't know what mischief you might do. 1 ' Teil me, quick,' cried Laurence. ' I sweai that no misohief ehall happen. Since I am a— a,— friend of Althea you ought to 1 It is not mischief to me. It is disgrace to them.' ' Trust me,' he repeated, taking her hands, poor bony handa AN INCREASE TO THE FAMILY 265 that had once bccn giiTs hands, prctty and tiny, a joy to look at. ' Trust me. You shall do no härm eitlier to yoursefr or to any >ne, and Althea shall never know." ' I call hör Althea- — by her Christian name — because I knew her father before she was born — Clement Indagine — when we were all girla together— oh ! a. very long time ago — thirty years ago — when Claudia and Julia and * ' Good God,' cried Laurence, ' I believe you muat be — quick — who are you ? ' For now the dreadful thought had ripened to a more dreadful suspicion, and this already to a certain convic- tion. "Who could ahe bo ? Why — who eise could ahe be, than — than — ' Quick,' he cried again. ' Teil me who you are ? ' ' Why do you look so stränge ? ' she asked. ' What does it matter to you who I am ? ' ' Oh ! ' he groaned, ' if you knew t ' ' Will you promise — yoa look as if you would be true to your word — will you promise faitufuUj not to teil Cornelia that you know?' ' Yes, yes, yes, I promise. Ehe shall not know." ' Eecause, after all, ahe haa done what she could forme. Her tonguo is oruel eometimes, bat not always — and only last Saturday ahe waa kinder than nsual. She gave me a paper bag füll of vielmals and ehe began to talk all of her own aecord about the old times. "Florry," ehe said — it was such a long time sinoe she called me Florry that I began to cry — " Florry "— ' ' You are Florry,' cried Laurence. 'Ton are my raother's only Bister — Oh I my GOD ! you are her aister Florry I ' In a single momend he understood the meaning of it : the reaaon of Cornelift's deeire to keep this poor creatitre and all knowledge of her from the family : the whole miserable history. This was the lost aister whom h« waa to discover if poesible. And now he had found her and ehe was this starving woinan in rags and destitution, paylng penalty so dire for her pi n« and follies. But the woman ahrieked andahrank back from bim. If this had been said and done in the street she would have fled. But in the room she could not fly. She covered her face with her hands and sank upon the ground, where she crouched moaning and crying and sobbing. Laurence bent over her and tried to raise her. Nothing but the misery was in his mind. ' I am ymir sieter's son,' he said. ' I am yonr nephew. Oh 1 It is all over : the misery is finished. Don't cry, don't cry. Thank God ! I have found yon at last. It is all over — all the atarving and the misery. Don't cry, oh ! don't cry. I shall take you »way and dresa you and get you into a better lodging, aud I **> THE BELL OF ST. TAUES •hall earry Ton oat to AoMrali» tomy mother, yoar ütcr Lucy, whom Jim ioved (o mach. Don't cry inj more. Afthea ihail coroe. We wül bring yon ba-k to happinas» again. Lift np yonr roor head and be cornforted. Now we have füoad joa Ire will keep you and never let yon go again. Ton are Florry — yon m my moth&r'ä only aiawr ' 80 be went on, layinghe knew not what, taBring of consola- tion and eomfort — wbispering meseage* of love whfle the poor woman still wept and cried that now she was punished indeed rince »he could co longer hide hei shameml head. from her ianocent aister. Preaently he led her, trembling and shaking down the Blairs and ont into the atreet. And how he strengthened her wich food and bonght clothes for her and refnsed to leave her nntil he had establiahed her in a deecnt lodging where she wonld be looked after — theae thinga belang to the 'Book of the Thinga Left OnV What he foond was a creature half mad with want and misery: what he left was a woman, thin and wom, her soft eyea and bat not deapairing, her face gentle and calm, the wüdness and the horrorgoneont of it t herBtarvedandfrozenbeartopen- ing once more in the warmtb of love. But alas I for such aa Florry, who have never qnite lost the better seif; with love retnrning comoa avenging shame. 8he alept afier long yeara of hardness in physical ease. She had eaten : she had been clothed : warmth and rest wrapped her about. Whcn she laid herhead upon thepillowahe feit still her nephew'B anriH abont her neck : hiä kiss upon her cheek : and she heard hia voiee — Lucy'a voice— murmuring in her ear. All waaover: all waa forgotten: she waa no longer Mrs. Sinclair, the woman of two pair back, in arrears with her rent : ehe was Florry, Florry again — and acroea the water Lucy waa ßtretching forth hands of welcome and crying teara of joy. Bat in the morning was to oome that other Measenger — he with the Flagelhm. Thk Pari CHAPTER XSVL IN BICHJKOND PAKE. Thet (tat in ailence on the graas beBide the lake of Eichmond Park. Tho afteraoon was warm and soft in the season of early ---"mn, the only one of the föur which hardly ever disappointa The hght of the sloping aun lay upon their faeea, the ferna brown and the treea were golden : it waa so quiet that one M de. br, Ihi Yd /iV R1CHMOND PARK 267 oonld haar tha whirr of the bwqJIow and the browsing of tha deer close beside and the snapping of the twiga when a rabbit broke cover and ran aerosa. Thcy wäre hundreds of niilcs from the hatint of man : there was no rambler in the Park that after- noonexcept themselvea. There are roany Hweet andquiet spota round London whither the people come not, except a few on Sundaya. There is a oertain eorner of Hampstead Heath which they kiiow not cven on the Sunday. There is a bit of Epping Forest which is alwaya deserted; there is a glade or two still left of Hainault Forest where you may wander undistnrbcd even by the gipsiua : but the quietest and loneliest apot of any is that beside the lake in Richmond Park where the herons fly over- head and the wild-duck makelong lineaand acute angles against the sky, and the deer roam undisturbed and the wood-birda Bing. Hither Lanrcnce brought the two girla and here they sat in silence, partly because all three were füll of thought, and partly because the place was too beautiful for idle talk. ' If it would only last,' said Althea with a sign, ' if we could Only go on sitting here without getting tired, and if the sun would not set — Oh 1 it seema as if one could never forget thia place and this afternoon. Yet, perhaps to-morrow we may have forgotten half. Let us try to remember it, Cassie. We will aay to ourselves — there was the Lake : there was the Bridge : there was the Boat-house— we must not leave 011t tha reeds ; behind na wäre tha trees with the twigs lying about the routs and the brown fem stretched out bejoud the trees : there was tha hoiuii Bring overhead with hia long lega behind him : there waa the sonlight on the water and the blua sky and — oh I if one were a painter to put it all down upon canvas and preserve the memory ' And in an hour or leas,' said Cassie, ' we shall be back again on Bank Side. Mr. Waller, you are grave to-day. When you took us to the West End youlanghedand talked. Haa anything gone wrong ? ' 'No; I have only aomething more to think of,' ho replied. ' It is, in fact, aomething that ought to make one happier.' ' Mr. Waller,' said Cassie, after another littlo silencfl, ' teil us at last — teil ns, why did you come to Bank Sitte first of all — you who had all the reat of the world to ehoose ? ' ' Bank Side is a very picturesque place : and as Althea knows, it is füll of Elizabethen, ghosta.' ' But it waa not to aee ghoata that you came.' Lanrence, who had been lying at the girla' feet, rose and walked to the water's edge, andlookcdacross the lake. Thenho cauie back to them so grave of face that Cassie was afraid of him. Yet every woman likes to see aenoua purpose in the face of a 1 268 TUE BELL OF ST. PAULS ' I cnme to Bank Side, Cassie,' he said, Standing before thcm, ' not to see the Elizabethan ghoets, but to make your acquaint- 1 Mine ? ' 1 Yours, and that of your father and the reat of you. I had also to find out, if possible, the trutb. about ccrtain little things forone who formerlylivednearyou. Well, Imade your acquaint- anca, and I found that asfortheaethinga I could do no good. So I thought I would go away again. And the» I— I made other frieuda, and I eaw that there was a Story going on: soI thought I would stay and aee the end of it : but aomehow I becaine a character in the story, which served me right for looking on : and then I fancied that the story was ended,andao 1 wentaway. But about that I was wrong, and so I eame back again. Andnow the atory aeems nearly finieheöV Both girls were silent, beca,use they also were characters in that atory. ' It will be finished very soon now,' he said. 1 What will the end be like ? ' said Cassie. ' I cannot say. I only kno w what I hope. I eame here a Btranger among all you people, of whom I had never heard. That was only three months ago. What have you become to me ? For even if I were now togoaway and leaveyon,I could neverforget you.* 1 Oh 1 but what have you done for ua ? ' aaid Caaaie. 'I eame among you with a light heart,' Laurence went on, ' thinking to amuse myaelf. It is not preciaely amusement that I have found here : it is a new interest in life, and a change in all my thoughts.' He spoke to Cassie, and he avoided looking at Althea, who gazed straight before her and eeemed not to hear. But her Ups quivered and her eyes softened. ' I have a thing to teil you all,' Laurence added after a little ; 'but you and I, Cassie, have fceen such special friends that I ehould like to teil you now. May I ? ' 'Oh, yes, if you please.' ' It ia a coniession, I eame among you with concealment of the truth. When I found, to my surprise, that none of you knew what my name, I thought, would have suggested, I did not teil who I really was, and I have never yet told any of you." ' Bat we know," said Caesie. ' You are the aon of Sir David Waller, who is Prime Miniatur of New South Wales.' ? That is certainly true. But my mother, Cassie, ia your father's first cousin.' * Oh I ' Casaie jumped to her fest and clapped her handa. Acut Cornelia said the other night that you had her cousin " Luey's voice and her face — and nobody took any notice of her. Oh I then you are my couain, too.' 'I cun your oousiu, too, Cassie." He held out both hia handa. 1 Oh 1 you are my oousin — oh I my own couain I ' 1 Yee. And so, you see, you must call me by my Christian natne in futiire. But you need not teil Flavia or anybodyjust yet. It ifl onr own secret to onrselvea.' 1 Oh I Laurence I — I am to call you Laurence ? — I am afraid it aeema like taking a liberty. What will they say? And is your mother, my cousin, too, really and truly a ladyahip ? Do they call her my lady 1 ' ' Certainly, sometimes.* ' And are you really rieh, anä do you live in a big houae ? ' ' Yes, and there is room in it for you. I have written to my mother to have it kept for you. Becauae, Caaaie, you sce, the atory abmit the gir! who weut away and forgot her troubles is going to be a true story aftor all. You are going out to Auatralia with me, away from the old plu.ee, and you are going to forget — all kinds of thinge. 1 Caasie hang her head and aaid nothing. Then they were all aileut again— and what eaeh thought oi I know not. The girla Bat aide by aide— and Laurence walked sluwly along the graaay bordera of the lake while the aun sank in the west, and the warm autumn day eame to an end. Preaently he returned to tham. • There goea the aun,' he aaid. ' Let na walk back to Rieh- mond and have dinner. Even on the most beautiful day of the vcar — this haa been the most beautiful aunset of oll thia year, eseept one — we muat havo dinnor. For my own part the happier I am the happier does dinner make me. Men are made ao. Althea ' — he called her by her Chriatian name and it seemed the right and natural thing — 'have we taken you too far 1 Are you tired ? ' Then they walked back in ailence throngh the deepeniog twilight. Preaently Cassie stule her band npon Laurence'« ' I am ao glad,' abe murmured, ' I am ao very glad you are my couain. I will go with yoa anywhere — anywbere — to get away from here. Are you eure your mother will like to have me?' The tablea at the Star and Garter are not crowded on a weekday in September. Laurence took one of those which look out npon the winding river and the broad Valley. At firal they had the great dining-roonu to tbemaelvea, eicept for a young couple returnräg home a>fler tbeir honeymoon. It v/na the last evening before they were to aettle down in the ding j THE BELL OF ST. PAUDS suburbof the mannfacturing town: the last eveningof roraance: nest day, and e^ery day afterwards, the counting-house and the factory. When the College of Phyaiciana haa lengthened our apan to a hundred and eighty, or perhapa two hundred and fifty, the honeymoon will take ten yeara at least. The dinner was not so gay as that one in Regent Street : bnt they talked with oheerrabaeBs, and perhapa it waa happier. Casaie ealled Laurcnce cousin, a hundred times ; ehe laughed to think what Aunt Cornelia wonld say ; ehe pennitted herseif little archneaaes of apeech which are allowed among young per- sona connected by a tie which is too elender ever to become, lLke aome family ties, a chain. The waiter exactly understood the Situation, although Cassie waa the principal talker. He recognised the Queen of the Feaat : he hovered aronnd Alchea, showering upon her those attentiona whieh only a sympathetio waiter can bestow : thia waa an English waiter, of oourae. He of Gennany or Switzerland oan- not widerstand theBe iwanccs ; he knows not the poetry of hia profeasion. We muat not aet him down as mercenary because his thougbtful attentions received an ample gnerdon when the little addition was diacharged. Chorda of the heart may be touched without a thought of tips. This waiter had been young. Bhall not beauty, youth and love betwoen them be able to strike the trembüng lyro and awaken as npon an Eolian harp a tender symphouy. The eveuing, however, was not to finish without another ad- venture. At the close of their feast, when the waiter had bronght them the ooffee, a party of half a dozen entered the room and noisily took posseaaion of a table reaerved for them. Three were ladiea and three raen. The ladies, who wore magnificent attire and were all three very aplendid in appearance and of commanding beauty and poaseased of complesions most wonderful and eyes moatcurionalybright, laughed and talkcdrather moro loudly thrm ia oustomary with ladiea in a public place. One of the inen corre- aponded in appearanoe and mannera to the ladiea : he looked aa il he could have played to the life the part of a bnecaneer or a gentleman highwayman, or a gallant Cavalry rider under Prince Rupert. He would be aet down by thoae who knew the World as a bookmaker, adventurer, modern privateer, or, to aum up, a bounder : hia laugh waa loud ; hia shouldera were Square, and he carried a swagger as pronounced ae that of any old Peninsular Offlcer in the Twentiea. He waa a good.looking creature, black of hair and of eye, who proolaimed in his face the fact that morality or priociple of the old-faahioned kind waa not his etrongeet point. The aeoond 'was a young gentleman of more plsaaing appearance and miieter mannera. üe tuok hia pari in IN RICHMOND PARK 37» tt the lond laughter of his feiende. And the third, who placed hiinself at the bead of the table and was apparently the host, was noiio other than the future President of the Royal Society — Oliver Luttrel. One of the ladiea was the divine Julia and one of the gcntlemen was the gallaut Mr. Harry Stanley. Althea turne J her head and aaw him. ' There'a Oliver,' ehe eried. ' Does Oliver give dinner.parties at Eichmond ? And what a stränge set of people with him ? ' Caasie tooked ronnd and saw him too. He was bending over one of the ladiea— she knew their Mnd : ehe had asBiated at the taking of their photographs : Oliver at the Star and Carter giving a feast to actresaes of the kicd who laugh loudly and paint thickly — Oliver who had no money — Oliver who thonght about nothing but science : Oliver who had been rnaking love to Althea : and with auch a party t But Althea paid no more at- tention : it waa quite indifferent to her if Oliver entertained strande goddesses with feasting and Champagne. The giver of that banquet, fortunately, did not see them : and they presently went away, the laughter of the party ringing in their eara. ' Is your idol ahattered yet ? ' Lawrence whispered in the traia. ' He swore once that he loved you. Then he ohanged his mind. He swore that he loved Althea — as if any man coiüd love Althea and give dinners to such people aa those ] Cassie, where is your lover as yon imagmed him ? ' ' If the idol is ahattored,' said Casaie sadly, ' give tue a little time, Lanrence, to clear away the fragments.' CHAPTEE XXVIT. THB TWO WILL3. COLI i the Doctor he wants to ' No, Sir, it's yoo. He asked for Mr. Indagine.' The Poet took the card. ' It isn't a man,' he said. ' It is a Firm — a Firm of solici- tors — Messrs. Backet, Saye and Seal, Lincoln'a Inn Fields. Wluu can lawyers want with rae ? Perhaps— ' his thuughtu, aa uaual, running upon his great literary fame — ' Perhapa they come from some Firm of Pub) iah eis.' I will go into the other room.' 'No— no— why shouldyon de that? There is only Althea 27* in the otber roora. Btay höre. I haveno aecrets. Why, if you come tu t hinlc of it, he muet be sent by some publiahers. No oue eise can have any busineas with me. He haa been sent to aak what price I put upon the now volume. Adviae me, my friend. Stand by me and aasist with your advioe. In all such things I am indeed a wretehed bunglerl' ' Skull we eco, first, what he wanta? ' eaid Laurence, incre- duloue as to the firm of pnblis-hers. It was not tho Firm in peraon, bnt tkeir representative, who waited without. He was a young gentleman recently qualified, wko eateemed himaelf fortunate in being ablo to find in theae bad Cimes a berth as clerk at a modtut ealary in so good a Houae. The Casual wards are reported to be every night crowded with young Bolicitora, young baniaterB, young physi- cians, young surgeons, young engineera, young architecta, young noveliats, yoa . ?... ? i young pocite on the tramp looking for joba and finding none. He wko escapes the Casual ward is acoounted happy. This young man bore kia good fortune with- out b o.ist liüne aa. But, being young and therefore easily put out by the unexpected, he was aomewhat impresued, on being in- trodueed into the room, by the strangeness of the place. One hardly Iooks to find upon the Bank a student's library with all the propertica complcto and an unniistakablo atudent, a man of ink, in a brown velvct jacket and long white beard. •Mr. Clement Indagine?' He addreased himself to the Poet, ' I bring you a letter and a packet. 1 ' A lotter 1 From what Houae do you come, Sir ? ' ' From Meaars. Backet, S»ye and Seal, The letter is from your Ute brotker, Mr. JSneas Indagine. 1 ' It'a the Profoaeor 1 ' cried Laurence. ' I had clean forgotten the Professor. I ahould have told you, Sir, long ago, that od the steamer I made the acqnaintance of a nephew of yours — one Sylvester Indagine.' *My father'a name was Sylvester. But— my late brother?" ke Leid the letter unoponed in. bis band — 'my late brother ? and my nephew 1 ' ' One of the Profesaor'8 purposea in Coming to England,' Laurence went on, 'was, he told me, to repair if possible some wrong. But I quite forgot him. Where ia Professor Indagine ? ' 1 He employed üb to searoh for Mr. Clement Indagine. For a long time we were unalite to bear anything about him, and then the Professor waa obliged to retuin to America. We learned hu place of residence yesterday by a kind of accident through ft certain Barrister'a clerk, CottLe by name." ' I am bewildered,' aaid the Poet. ' You bring me a letter from my brother wbo haa been lost to me for five-and-thirty yeara — you teil me he ia dead : you speak of a nephew in searoh THE TWO WILLS of me — aotiiFilly in seaich of me and unable to find nie — Mt. And you go on to aay that yonr Firm— a Firm of aolicitora in Lincoln' s Inn — has also been in seareh of me, and that you have baen able to hear nothing of me — nofching — nothing — of Me 1 This ia wonderful I ' ' The Saturday Beviawer, remember, Lanrence made haste to remind kirn, ' was in just the aame positioru "Where," he asked, " ia Clement Indagine ? " ' ' True — true.' Tho ruiHed Poet was eaaily smoothed. ? Theae lawyera, yon would aay, knew my name and fame, naturally — everybody knew that, but they eould not leam my residence, I say, Sir,' he tnrned to the ltc-pn.'seritative, ? that yoa asked your- selves not — who was Clement Indsigine, but where was Clement Indagine.' The young gentleman who broughttheletterbegan to wider- stand that there aro many thinga of which even a paased aoli- citor may be ignorant : he had suspected this before, in moments of depression : aa, for inatance, the nanie and fame of Mr. Clement Indagine. But he smiled and looked foolish, and because he feit that he looked fbohsh, he bluaked and looked niore foolish still. ' Had you not better proceed to read the Ietter ? ' said Laurence. ' Yee— yes. Is this the Ietter 1 ' Mr. Indagine looked at it doubti'uily. ' It ia a voioe from the tomb. My brother, who is dead, is abont to speak to nie.' He looked aa if he waa not ansioua to hear this voice from the tomb. Well. Few people are. ' My brother,' he went on, tuming tho Ietter about, but not opening it, 'leit ns fi.ve-Bjid-thirty years ago. Thia Ietter, my friend, is going to revive the memory of a wretched time, a miserable time, a time which I had thought was long sinca buried, never even to be spoken of or thought of. We had a miserable childhood, and a iniBerable wpgrowing. We were Chüdren of a Prison — and our gaoler waa our own nnole — whose name I cannot bear to pronounee.' He trembled with agitation. ' I say, wretched memory — I oannot bear to open the Ietter. No — I cannot. Eead it for me, my friend. No — Leiter not. Call Althea, if you ple&se. She shall read the Ietter to me.' The name of hia brother and the Ietter which he bald in his hand recalled the Queen's Bench to his mind and the daya wheo he apent the morninga at hia desk in the Row among the booka and bis evenings with hia fatlier and brother in the Prison. 'Althea, child, read thia Ietter for me. Bead it aloud and let ns get it over. It is from your uncle, who ia dead, I do not know whether he did well or whether he failed. Ha went away yeara ago, and we have never ouco heard from bim, Bead it, my dear.' He leaned his head upon hia hand, eipeci- 174 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S iog to be taken forcibly back to thoKe days which he would m wülingly have forgotten. Althea opened the letter and read it. 'Mr deab Brotheb, — I am told that I am dying. Dtiring tha long yeara eince we parted I have alwaya looked forward to getting home and to seeing you again. Thia will never happen — and I ahall go to my long home without that happiaeBB, I ought to have written niany q year ago, bnt I have led ao busy a lifo that I put it off from tinie to time unti] it seemed too late. I have been very bney and very prosperous, becauae I had the good luck to come atraight out West. ' Before I die there is a small tbing on my mind. I say a emall thing, but I do not know. It may have proved a very great thing. If mischief hau come of it I am sorry. It is this. When I made up roy mind lliat llie only thing Icould do waa to run clean away and so get out of the diflicn.lt ies which I still believe were caused by our dear unele for his own purposea, I thought I would play him a cortain trick which would be likely to cause him annoynitce and tronble. Therefore before I left Backler'a office I opened tho tln box containing Mr. Norbery'a papers; I took them all out, tied them up, and brought them along with me. ?Well; I tossed them into my tnrak and they came to America with me — and tben, aftnr awbile, when I eettled down here and began to get work I forgot all about them. Mind, I folly meantto aend them back. But 1 quiteforgot. I fear that their Ioss may have caused more than annoyance. Howover it ia now too late to do anything more than aend them back. I ?uppose my unele can bardty be living still : but you can give the papera to his executors. As for mo I havo not opened the parcel and I have no knowledge of ita Contents. My Bon will take it to England and will place it, just üb I brought it away, in your handa. He will also teil yon everything about me, but when you get tho letter I shall l'C lying in the ciiuetery. ' I hope, my dear Clement, that you are well, prosperoua and happy. My aon will be wealthy, and you innst use him freely if you are in any want or tronble. Farewell. ' -Enbas.' Mr. Indagine liftod his hoad with a eigh, aa one who bas liatened to a pray er. 'I thoughtit would have been worae,'he seid. ' Poor Lineas I So he is dead. I ahould likei to aee hia son. Pcrhapa he will oome again. Not a Word about the old memoriea. Like me, iEnoas wonld not wülingly recalltliem. Write to your American Cousin, Althea, and teil him all that haa huppencd. Perhaps he doea not even know that the English Poet who beara bis snr- name is actually his father's brother. Whea the new voluma comes out he ahall have a copy.' THE TWO WILLS 27 S ' Hera are the papers Bpoken of in tho letter,' Baid the young solicitor, opening his bag and taking them out. 1 The papers ? Oh 1 yee — well — I have nothing to do with my uncle's property. I refuse to roceive any papers.' Mr. Indagine, so to spcak, bnished them aside. ' We linderstand, oninquiry, that tho Treasury has taken pos- iesBion of the Norbery estatea. Do yon wish na to oommuni- oate these docnmenta to the Treasnry ? ' ' My dear Sir, yon will do exactly as yon please. I have no interest whatever in the businesB. My brother'a foolish action cannot have mnde any difference. Of what consequence is the loss of a few papers ? And if any action haa to be taken I shall not take it.' The lawyer looked with pity upon a man who thought that the loas of a few papera could be of no consequence. ' Well, Sir, we opened the packet at the requeat of the Pro- fessor, and we found in it a will, which, considering that Mr. Norbery was supposed to die intestate, may prove of very great injportance indeed.' ' Well, Sir, do what yon please with it. It ie no concern of ' We underatand that the property in oueBtion is very largo/ ' Oh 1 ' cried Mr, Indagine with impatience. ' Shall I never hear the end of that accursed Property ? Take away your will — Tear it up — Take it away, I say. Do what you like with it,' he repeated irritably. ' My dear Sir— Tear it np ? Tear np a legal document ? ' ' My father,' Althea espiained, gently, ' means that he ean never consent to take, by will or otherwise, any portion of that 'No portion. Nonc/ said Mr. Indagine, with vehemente. ' Take it away. The sight of the thing with the knowledge of what it represents irritates rot. Take it out of my Bight/ ThenLaurenceremembered a eertain passage in hismother's letter of instructiona. ' Can yon teil ns briefly,' he said, ' the disposition of the estate by the will ? " ? Certainly. The will leaves the whole of the estate abso- lateiy to one Lucy Holford, then the Teatator's housekeeper/ ' Oh I ' It was Althea who started, romembering what Lan- rence had told her. 'And it namea one ViceBimns Cottle of Bank Bide as sole executor. 1 Then this was the will spoken of by bis mother. 'To Lucy Holford,' Mr. Indagine Baid with a sigh of relief. ' And nothing at all to me. Ah I That ia exaotly as it ahould be. My uncle had so much grace at the end. He Bpared me my dire 276 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S the laat Insult of bequoathing me my father's property which he had stolon : that was well Jone of him. Some man would have pretended to atone by leaving money to their vietims. He did not. Althea, my dear, henceforth no one can aay that we are in the leset interested in tbie abouiinable es täte. No man can aak me why I would make no movement in the matter. Yoting genUeman, you maynow tie 11p oll thoae papera again and tako them away. I refuae to receive them. With Mr. Norbery living or dead I will have no dealings what- ' Wall, bat,' said the yoting lawyer, ' this is a matter of very great importance: yon would not keep onybody out of hia rights. Will you at least teil me what you can of the persona named ? ' ' So far, I will help yoa. The Executor, Mr. Vicesimua Cottle, has been dead for twenty years. Lucy Holford, I heard, went away, but I cannot teil you anything more. She was a nioco of that clerk Lucius Cottle who gave you my place of reaidence. There were two sisters, Lucy and Florry. They were pretty girla : my brothec Lineas and Florry, I remomber, were once supposed — but that is boy and girl story. The girla were qnite poor and they were very pretty — and — well, Sir, I am sorry to aay that I cannot toll you more. Their cousin, Mr. Lucius Cottle, may give yon fiirther Information about thia heiress. I rofor you to him ; and now I wishyou goodmorning, young gentteman.' Althea looked at Laurence — Would he speak ? But he presorved a countenance nnrnoved. The Sphyni heraelf Iooke not upou the short-lived generations with an expression of leea interest. 1 Then,' said the Bolicitor, ' I snppose I had better take away the papers.' Whilst he was folding them up, steps and voicos were heard without. The door opened and Oliver appeared. Behind him stood Mr. Mayes. He was then in the midst of his electrio treatment and his diet. Enforced exercise and total abstinenoo had mude him both pale and thin. Also, his natural anxiety about the obstruction of the Motor path, which Eeemed resolved to yield to no severities, the awful expense of the treatment, and the physicol sufferings which he endured, naturally made birri irritable. 4 You here, Oliver ? ' cried Mr. Indagine. ' Wait a minute, my dear boy — we have just eompleted the businesa. But why are you here, Sir 7 ' he addreeaed Mr. Mayes. ' I thonght you understood ' ' I have brought him,' s&id Oliver. ' I will explain why, directly. It is a Business connected with the Norbery Estate.' THE TWO W1LLS 377 'Good Heavenal Wehave just finished that busineas. Take him away, Oliver — tako bim and his buaineas too, out of my 1 Bnt it concems Althea,' aaid Oliver. ' No — no — no— nobody here ia concerned at all. My nncla left bis property to bis houaekeeper, Lucy Holford. The will haa been found." ' To bis houaekeeper — to Luey Holford 1 ' Oüver turned ' Here ia the will,' aaid the aolicitor. ' Perhapa yon will be able to give us some informntion respecting that lady." Oliver anatched the will and looked at the date. Then be laughed gently and laid it down upon the table. ' It beara your eignature, Mayas,' he said. ' And it ia thirty years old.' 'LordI' Mr. Mayea ejaculated. 'So it ia — my aignature I Yea— Yea, Tee — I remember witnessing that Will very well. Where in the World was it found ? ' ' You remember witneasing that will ? ' Laurence aaked. 'I remember it as well as — as well aa ' ? Witnesaing the other," auggested Oliver, sharply. 'Yea— yes — oh, yea.' Itwaeperhaps the Treatment which made him turn so white and tremble at the knees. PcrhapB it waB tha contrast betwoan the clcar recollection of the one, and the blank space in his mind where the aecond event ahould have been photographed indelibly. * I remember the day very well and everything he Said. It waa a hot day in summer.' 'Well,' said Oliver, 'that only waatea time. You have brought with you a document whioh sets this will aaide.' Mr. Mayea drew a paper out of Ha pocket and laid it upon the table without speakmg. ' What ia this '? ' asked the solicitor. 1 Änother and a later will.' ' This ia very wonderful. Two willa, and hoth to tarn np on the same day 1 ' ' I know nothing nbout any earlier paper,' aaid Oliver. 1 What Mr. Mayea baa ia a document found a day or two ago by his clerk among aome old papers. I have aaked Mr. Mayea to bring it here, and I have comc with bim, first becauae I am — indirectly— concerned with the will, and nost becauae Mr. Mayea fancied there might be some prejudice.' 1 Misunderatanding,' aaid Mr. Mayea. ' Partiea not being alwaya buaineaa men." ' Oliver,' eaid Mr. Indagine, ' if that Will leavea me acy- ' It doesnV ' Then I am not eonoerned with it. Take it away.' ?J7« THE BELL OF ST. PAULS ' Bat thisis intereeting,' said Laurence. A aecond timehcex- perienced that very odd aens&tion of having the cup suatchod from hia lipa, ' This is very intereating indeed.' *I don't know how it concema you,' said Oliver, rndely. ? Nevertheleas, it ie interesting.' 1 Well, then,' Mr. Mayea explained, ' it'a all left to the young lady tbere, provided Ehe ohanges her narae by a certnin time, and if she doesn't, thcn to Mr. Luttrel here. Öoerna as if the old gentleman oouldn't abide the nime of Indagine. Made money, perhapa by aomo of the faniily, which naturally aet hint agon tbo ' That, you see, is tbe poaition,' said Oliver. ' As for myaelf, Althea ' 1 You have heard what my fsther said, Oliver. We can have nothing to do with Mr. Norbery'a will.' 'Well, Althea, consiilerin^ evwyilimg — ' Oliver glanced at Jjfturence, ' considcriiig all that haa paaBed — it mattcrs nothing In the long ran. Though I would rather that rny wife ' ' Tour wife, Oliver ? ' She faced him with eteady eyea which he could not meet. ' Your wife ? ' ' My wife, I said, should have her own property to beraelf. Still aa I ahall have it, there will tie no difference.' 'Your wife, Oliver?' she repeatod with no change in her colour, but still the eteady determined eyea. ' Como, Althea ' ' Your wife, Oliver ? ' she repeated a third time. ' There waa a proiniso,' he Teplied, dropping hie own eyea. 1 What promiae ? Eepeat that promiae.' Oliver was aüent. But he aeenied to grow amaller — and the old ugly look feil lipon him. ' You understand me, perfectly, Oliver. You know, perfectly, what was said on that oceasion. What is the meaning of tlus new pretence ? ' ' Pretence or not, what doee it matter ? ' he replied, doggedly. ' If yon will not profit by the will, I ahall. That is the aituation. If you chooae toreinain poor, I ahall not. You cannot blanie me, Althea.' ,' I do not blame you, Oliver, Yon will do as you pleaae.' 1 Good Heaveus ! ' cried the exasperated poet, ' you drive me mad with your Willa and your eonditions. Go away all of you. Oliver, take away this pereon who came the other day to seil the *eoret of hia preeiona Will. Wanted a oominiasion or a per- centage for handing it over. let this person understand that ha will get nothing from me. Do esactly what you like all of yoo. But never apeak to me again a.hout the Norbery Estate.' Laurence, ineanwhile, had been looking at the lateat of tha two willa. THE TWO WILLS 279 • It aeema fi very intellifjüile iloctiraent,' he said. ' The man hii.il, I BUppose, no other relation but youraelf, Mr. Indagiue, anii he seoma to have hatod you. Mr. Mayea, whoae knowledge of human nature doeei htm great credit, has supplied the motive. Mr. Norbery made money, perhapa by sharp practioes, out of yoiir family. We naturally hate ühoee whom we have injured. ßo he left it all to your danghter, not to you, and to her only on condition that ehe shonld not besir the mime which he hated. This kind of hatred makes one think better of humanity. It aeenia to ahow the eiistance of conacience. Perhapa Mr. Mayes understands the paaaiou.' Mr. Mayes was heard to marm.ui something abou t firie words in connection with Auatralia. 'I quite agree with Mr. Waller,' said Oliver. 'The doeu- ment is perfectly natural and reaaonable. And aa for my name boing there, it was put inbecauseit wasneoessarytoput in some one in cnse of the condition bcin£ imfulfilled.' 1 Quito so,' said Laurence, folding up the paper. ' We may congratulate you, Mr. Luttrel. When tue necesaary formolities are oompleted — I auppose that the thing ia all right — you will be able to have many more little dinners at the Star and Garter.' ' What do you mean by that ? ' Oliver aaked qnickly, ' Really — what I said — nothing' more. We aaw you the other day with yonr friends : you aeemed a cheerful Company. And strictly aciontihc. Here ia the will.' Ab he was handing itover, his eye was caught by souiething. ' 8tay,' he said. ' Here ia aome writing.' He looked more eloaely. ' It ia a very amall, fine writing, apparently later than the body of the will — in fresher ink — itlooka like a foroijrn langnage — well, I cannot read it, and I suppose that it doeso't matter. There, Mr. Mayes; you did find aomething after all.' ' It is a most extraordinary thing,' the Solieitor remarked, professionally. 'The Batate of the Inteatate long aince taten over by the Treasury ; a very large estate ; and two wiüs actually turning up on tho same day 1 It ta truly wonderful.' ' Well, gentlemen,' said Mr. Indagine, settling himself in hia ohair again, ' you have waated an hour of my valuable time. I wisli you all good morning. Oo and talk about it outaide.' He plunged into bis papera and became immediately abaorbed. Oliver lingered behind. Lauronce retired discreetly to the window. ' Althea,' said Oliver with aweetneas. ' I knew your feeling about myself, all along. I wiahed above all thinga to do what would pleaae — ' he pointed to her father bent over hia desk, 'Therefore I willingly doeeived mvaelf. As for what I said juat now, I was prompted by the desire to bring matters to a head— thei hitf 180 THE BELL OF ST, PAVL'S to set jon free if yon wished it, even from that conditiocal understanding. Well— you are free, and I am free. Ah for youl rofusal, I aay it is Quixotic, Altbea, Nothing lese.' 'It U my fatber's wieh, Oliver. That is enough.' ? WelL Bat you must not tliiiik tbe worse of me if I profit by this wonderful windfall ? ' ' Suiely, not. You will iict exactly as you think is best and right. - ' Thank you, Älthea. The difference between nothmg a yenr and a large income is for a scientific man incalculable. I shatl now comruand my own Laboratory — I sball multiply my work by ten. I ehall condnct Research tymeans of othera — Ohl yon cannot uuderetand, Älthea.' For a moment he Jooked again the old Oliver, aagor and athirst for science. Altbea forgot, while he Hpoke, his cruel de sertion of Cassie. 'Teil my fathor,' he went on. 'Let bim undorstand that through your sacrifice, — yours, Altbea — I am going to become rieb — independent, my own master — and — and — . Good-bye, Altbea.' He tonohed her fingera — tbe last time that he was ever to tooeh her fingern — and was gone. Then tbe voiee of Claudia seemed to fall lipon Althea'a ear. Again she heard tho sentence, stern and certain. 'The young mau shn.ll be aurely punished,' 'Don't let ue waste our time any loneer, Älthea,' eaid th« Poet. ' That bnsiness is dispa-tched, thank Heaven. Mr. Waller and I havo a great deal to do. We are now, Mr. Waller, arrived at tba poema which open the Third Period. Bit down, my friend. I think a note on the characteristics of this period Oh 1 sball I never hear the end of that abominable Batate t Can I never eBcape from tue memory of the Prison ? ' CHAPTEE XXVIU. A Peopbr Spirit, the reBenfcment of 'behavionr, 1 a Becoming Pride, the knowledgeof whatis dne tooneself and to the Family, jealousy of rights, and tbe assertion of proper Station, rank or respeetability — these things, though not necessarily virtues in thernselves, are attributee of a certain Virtue which has been hitherto unnamed by moraliats. This Virtue is conspicuonsly 'OUR COUSIN 1 281 illustrated in the great and powerfnl Lowor MiddleClass; where it ie the canae, unliappily— though bo great a Yirtue — of many fomily feudi, entered upon with beeoming pride and peraevered in with the obstinacy due to self-respect. It ie lesa oi'ten found among the working men ; it is uiiknown in the Upper Ten Thousand, who porhapa have othcr vir kies of their own, to make np. It was thia virtue, with ita attendant nympha of Pride, Kesentment, and Suspicioo, which separated Claudia and Cornelia for eigbtoon long veare. How the little rift began wbich widened to so great a fissure, I know not. There was once a tradition among the girls eonceming a forgotten pOBtage-stamp, bat this may anrely be disregarded. Surfice it to aay tbat for eighteen yeara Cornelia umd a Ca.ll. Tbia simple fact ahould bs enough. Sbe owed a Call, and Ehe did not pay it, Thorefore, for eighteen yeara the Sisters never met. Imagine, therefore, the aßtoniahment of the Family Circle, wben Claudia unexpectedly ignored the Call bq long due and visit c-d her brother and siatcr and her niecesat the Family Home, the Cradle of the Race. She came without aendingword to prepare theirruinda. She Hüddenly opened the door and Btood before them, smiling plea- santly, dressed in her silk and la.ee, her gold chain about her neck, a digniüed and gracious lady. ' Cornelia,' she said, ' I hope you are very well — LueiuB, how do you do ? ' That was all : not & word of explanation or regret : only sbe amiled and walked in. ' Aunt Clandia I ' cried Flavi« — ' Oh I ' 1 Bieter Claudia I ' cried Cornelia, springing to her feet. 1 Claudia 1 ' cried Lucius. ' Is it poBEible ? ' 1 Quite posaible,' she replied eschanging with her aieter the kies of recnncüiation, whieb was not a long and lingering kisa, but a birdlike peck. ' Quiu- pAKÜ Je, Lucius. Perhaps our long Separation bas been partly my fault.' Cornelia sat down. She reco\ --ered quiekly from her surpriae and was herseif again. She folded her Lands in her lap sitting bolt npright. 1 Perhapa yonr fault,' ehe eehoad. * As for ms I have long forgiven you, Bieter, That was my duty. Though if any- ' Clandia,' Lucius hastened to stop the danger of esplanation. 'We rejoiee to eee you once more. Tou are loaking well and yotmger than we tnight bave espected — I'ni sure — whon we con- Bider the wear and tear of your life. Propbecy is said to age Kple rapidly. Thia is my boy Sempronius— this ja CaBsie, and via you know." ; It 1a comfortable,' Baid Clandia, sitting down and amootbing skirts, ' to be with one's own people again. We go out into 'I hOTBl 282 TUE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S the woridanddowhatwearecalledftndchoBon to do. But thera is nothing like the old honse after all. You've ohanged nothing," she looked round the room. ' It ia all as I rememberit, As for \vhat you aro doing, Flavia pivos nie all the news, so that I know everything and you need not eiplain.' ' A long tiiue ago,' Cornelia began again, ' I resolved that it was my duty to forgive, arid I have endeavotired to forget, though from one's own Bister ' ' Nay, Cornelia — ' said LuciuB, ' on thia oecaaion we will have none but pleasant memorieg. Tour little CbapeJ, Claudia 1 ' he asked with tho condescension of an Anghcan, ' It still keepa up, I hope ; and the attendance — and the eollections — show no falling off ? ' ? The Trath cannot fall off, brother, though members may oome and go. And you, Cornelia, remairj still in your old place —in the Church ? ' ' I am still at the poat of dnty. As I was saying, sister ' 1 We are all,' Lucius interposed for the tlürd time, ' at the poat of dnty, Though unhappily one may be at bis post and yet out of his place — out of hie place. Post and Place do not, aa in Cornelia'a caae, always go together. At the present moment, we are mostly out of place.' 1 So I leam. The Family,' Claudia glanced, perhaps acoi- dentally, at her siater'B BtufT dress and again smoothed her soft silk dmperies, 'hasnot got on very well, except myself. Not that I take credit for my own gii'ts. Heaven forbid I Ifyott stay at home and look for plitms to drop into your mouth you can't expect to got on, Fathor did much the Barne with hia Academy. Well — my Bon Felix is going to Australia, He goea out with Lsurence Waller.' 'With Mr. Waller?' ' You call bim Mr. Waller. Yes. For the present. Well 1 • again she looked round the old familiär room. ' Everything just the sarae. Oh ! Cornelia, if you lived a thousand yeara you would koop evor\ thijssjnsl 1 1 1 c- s:l!iic. Thtre is ^randfather'a Portrait and the samplers and the punchbowl and the silver candleaticks, If you had bocomo a IlouriBhing man, Lucius, I suppose that all would have been changed and the very hooBO given up.' ' Oive np the old house, Claudia ? Never." 'Well: it ia pleaaant to look round and rernember the old times — and two girlB and a boy again, who mij;lit be Cornelia and you, Lucius, and I. But tbere are changes Coming.' ' What changes ? ' Claudia paused. The pause madeherrepIymoreimpreBsive. ' There are going to be many changes,' aha said— 'many and important changes, That is partly why I am here to-night.' • *OUR COUSIN' 183 1 1 am ignorant of any changea,' aaid LucraB j ' what changea ahould liiere be ? ' ' You will soon be in ignorance no longer. "When changea are hanging over a Family it ia right that all ahould be uniied. Therefore, I am here. No more expliinations, Cornelia, if you please. We are united once more. That ia enough,' Kho spoke with authority (lion^'h (.'"ni' lia wits her eider, and ehe assumed herprophetic manner and her voice Warne deeper and the smile left her face, and her eyes lost thcir sympathy. Then awe feil npon those who heard her, even lipon Cornelia herseif, who had thought never to be awed by a younger eister and the Prophot of a Diesenting Chapel. 'There will be changee,' ahe repeated. 'Those who have been lost to ua will be reatored. These whom we thought dead will be alive : we Bhall gain but we stall lose : there will bo BpparationB : the past will be destroyed, yet wo ahall be preserved. Everything that we uow look lipon will be liispersed. Yet a Wcek or two and we shall be rega,rding the World with changed eyes. Therefore I am here, to warn you and to ahare with you : to take counael with you and to give it.' ' It'a terrible,' whispered Flavia. ' She knows everything, Father, ask her for more. She ran teil all that ia going to happen.' But Lucius, who was uow pale and trembliug, wriggled inhis chair. To be in search of a place puts a man at a disadvantage in presence of a Prophet ess. She might, for inatanco, annoimce that he would never lind one. ' Why,' said Cornelia, ' as for that, anybody can aay that thinga are going to happen. While I sit in the empty Churoh I aee what is going to happen aa piain as if it was written upon the wall in lettera of gold like the Cornrnandinents. I know what will happen very well if Lucius and Caaaie don't find work to do after Mr. Waller, who'a our chief support, goea away. "When we lose bis five-and-tbirty Shillings a week where sball we be ? Can you teil more, Claudia ? But in my Churcb they don't call me a Prophetess.' 1 1 teil you again, that there wilJ be great ohanges. A chnnge for you, Lucius : a change for Flavia ; a change for Casaie : a change for Sempronius — a change for Älthea and for her father: b change for all. For you and me, Cornelia, losa and aepa- ' Ian't ehe wondorful ? ' cried Flavia. 'Enough of waming,' Claudia looked round amiling again. ' I have come for otltcr thinga. I bring you a message. It ia from Laurence Waller, who is Coming himeolf in a fow minutes. I promised to save bim the trouble of explaining.' 1 Ia he actually going, thon '? ' cried Flavia. ' Oh ! what ahall do?' 284 THE BELL OF ST. PAUDS •He is not going just yet. Bat he wishes me to teil you * 1 He ought to give a fortnight's notice,' said Cornelia. 1 He wishes me to teil you ' 1 Nay,' eaid Lucius. ' He has been a great happiness to us. He shall oome and go as he pleases. As for the money, I ehall find another berth, no doubt, unless Claudia prophesies against it.' 4 He wishes me to teil you,' resumed Claudia, 'what he might have told you at the outset, only, I suppose, it seemed romantio to be here in disguise. He did not let you know who he really is — in fact, he is no other ' 4 He is the son of Cousin Lucy,' cried Cornelia sitting up triumphantly. 4 I always knew it. Lucius, you will bear witness that I always said it I ' 4 Tou did, Cornelia, you certainly did.' ' Lucy 's voice, Luoy's eyes. I always said it. And now I do hope we stall hear no more nonsense about his father being a nobleman. And perhaps we shall find out where he gets the money that he flings about as if he had the whole Bank at his back, taking girls to theatres and giving them Champagne and gold watches, and turning their foolish heads. And perhaps he will teil us now what he does for his living and where his mother works.' Claudia laughed pleasantly. ' My dear Corneba, you are too quick. His father has been knighted and is now Sir David Waller. Therefore, though it is wonderful to think of, Cousin Lucy is Lady Waller, and they are very rieh indeed. They have got cattle stations, sheep runs, houses, and all kinds of things — Lucy has her carriages and her gardene, and is now a very great lady.' 'Oh! Very well.* Cornelia sniffed gently. 'Andsheonce a daily dressmaker 1 But to me she will always be piain Lucy.' 'Lawrence came here at his mother's request in order to find out the present circumstances of the Family. I always did say that Lucy had the best heart in the world, though after the way we behaved to her — there, Cornelia, we won't go into that. Well, she married a boat-builder at Botherhithe when she left our brother-in-law ' ' A boat-builder 1 ' Cornelia breathed again. ' Dear me 1 only a boat-builder I Was that all ? And after Coming to the Academv every Sunday afternoon for tea ! But to be sure the poor girl had no choiee.' ' Then his affairs went wrong and they emigrated, and every - thing has prospered with them sinoe.' ' Why, children,' Lucius leaned back in his ohair and crossed his legs, ' this should make us all proud and joyful : Mr. Waller, 'OUR COUSIN' a8j whom we will now oall Laurence — which I thinli he will not lake ül — 13 ourcousin. He has heaped Mndnesges upon us ' ' He gave me a sovereign,' said Seinproniua. ? Oh I' Flavia sigbed, ' I always knew there must be Borne 'And he is our cousin. Cornelia, it mattera nothing that Lucy was once a daily dressmakor. Cease to dwell upon that memory. Besides, the Family sbould agree to forget these little details, which are not dishonourablä, certainly, yet not a cause of pride. She is now rieh and a great credit to all of us. Her Ladyship couftTs lustro upon üb. Let ns welcome Laurence by saying kind things about his mother.' ? For my own part, I shall write to Lucy,' said Claudia, ' by this weck's niuil. But Laurence bad another task imposed lipon him. He was to und out, if he could, what has become of ' Ah I ' said Lucius, ' there was Florry. I wonder if she also has been ratsod to the rank of nobility. I wonder, now, if Florry is another subjeet of pride for the Family ? ' ' Not before tbe children, sister,' Cornelia whispered. Thera was a sudden hardening of her face, and her Ups tightened, Symptoms whioh Claudia marked. • Why not before the girls? Do you tbink, Cornelia, that Laurence will perhapa find her ? ' ' I oannot say.' ' Do you think yon eoold help him to find her ! ' ' How sbould I know anything about her ? ' • She was so very sweet and pretty," Claudia went on, softly miiviuiirLif', as if out of the fulneea of bor heart. 'I ahvaya loved Florry, but Julia's favourite was Lucy. I wonder where she went and how ahe fares. Soinetimes I tbink she may bave fallen into poverty.' 1 That is very poasible,' said Lucius. He was not elever, but he understood that in tliia talk about Florry there was moro than met his ear. Also be saw that Cornelia was disquieted, and that Claudia watched her. ' It is very poBaible,' he repeated, ' they wore terribly poor.' ' When people suecoed,' Claudia continned speaking, almuBt as if she were quoting the worda of her father, the wise man, ' their friends for the most part und them out if it is only to borrow monoy of them. If theyfail their friends oease to search for them, or if they find them, tlicy hide tlioui away and koep therahidden — andthen— oh! children — children I' shetarcedlo the two girls, ' poverty ia the greatest temptation that can fall in the way of mau or woman. Pray, pray to be guarded against this temptation ; pray witb all your aoul and with all yonr streng th for the daily bread. Poverty causes eins ümumemble ; of th poverty destroya honour and uelf-re*pect, When the wretched oreaturas begin to sink lower they think to atay tbeir fall by sin and crime. Poverty Ulla ottr priaone : poverty turna honesty into crime and virtue into dishonour. It is a terribla tbing, indeed, to fall into poverty. Children '—her voioe sank into a aignificant whisper, 'ahould one such paar creature, afterlong Buffering and the puniahment which ahvays awaita the tranagressor, be found by one who lovea her slill and be drawn np out of the dreadfnl pit, there is nothing left for üb — oh 1 there is nothing left for na tut forgiveneaa and love and silence among ourselves — yea — and süenee.' ' 8he might be forgiven,' aaid Cornelia, 'but ehe shonld be kept out of sight.' The two girla liatened with awe and fear. Something vi eertainly going to happen. ' No,' said Claudia, ' she must be forgivon altogether and in ailence. Such, Children, is the teaehing of the Early Church.' 1 1 hope,' said Cornelia severely, ' that I may be allowed to know the doctrinea of the Church as well as you, siater. It ia our duty, we are told, to forgive the wiekod man when he turneth away from hia wickedneaa. But as for reoeiving him At Ihia point she stopped and her face became frozen. The andden freezing of a face enn ouly be produced by astoniahment, which at the aarne tiine fixes the eyea and deprivea the aufferer of the power of utteranee. For the door was thrown open and there entered Laurenoe. — With him a lady — a lady in whom Cornelia reeogniaed nona other than Florry horsolf, of whom they had been apeaking. Äfterwarda ehe imaarstood, nudknewhow toreaent inabeeominn manner, the artfulnesa of her Bister in preparing the way for the reeeption of the prodigal. But what Cornelia looked npon was Florry tranaformed. No longer the ragged, Btarving, miserable creature, wan and hollow- eyed, who dragged her way along the Street and picked up crusta. Florry dreaaed ükea lady, weariiigpretty thingsthat cost money, like the wife of a olergyman or of the general practitioner, or of the eminent grocer — but cot so fitie. Florry in glovea and a bonnet that muat have coat — bnt of courae her nephow paid for all : Borne people have no shame about taküig preaenta. Florry who seemed to have gone back twenty yeara. Hercheeks, which flamed, gave her aome of her former beauty : her aoft eyea, limpid eyes which looked once round tha room and then dropped, were as sweet aB ever. Florry — no longer in coneealment but brou^ht back after all to the nid house — even to the Sanr-tuary of the Academy, the Holy flace of the Family. She hcld her 'Ol/R COUSIN' 2S? nephew'B hand, and etood with drooping head. But he stood upright and confldant and masterfiil. ' My dear eousina,' be aoid, ' Claudia has explained things, I hope — I am your unworthy cousin. Ttaat is all, and I bring back to you another cousin — my Aunt Florry who has been saparaied from you a great « li i le. — ' We ha ve found her at last and we never mean to let her go again, Never— never.' Hedrewlv.T p.-mlv und kÜMd her od the forehead beforethen all. It was not only the kies of aßeetion, hnt the sounding of a trumpet. Ciirnoliii lim1wnlmiwl It nieant thal Florry was to be received, with himself : it was meant for her private ear; itoon. demned her to ailence about the past. She gasped, and for a while Bat irresolute. But Claudia snatched her cousin rrom Laurenoe's arms. ' Florry, dear 1 — Oh l you remomber me very well, I am snre, I am Claudia, my dear, though I am old and changed. But you aro still pretty. Oh ! my dear, how long since we have aecu you 1 Now we have found you again we shall never let you go, never, mind — no — not until tlie Auge] of the Lord calls you and brinya the fine linen, clean and white, which is the righteousneas of the Samts. Florry — do not cry, Florry , you are with your own people at last, and across the aea, your aister atretches her band to wel- come you back with love and kisses. My dear, this iB a happy evening. Lucius, have you forgotten Florry ? Coro aha, have you neither ayes nor ears 1 Children, this is onr cousin, onr cousin Florry Holford,' Cornelia rose, her mind rcsolved. Shc assnmed the frigid air of oondescenKii.n with which in the old days she had been wont to reeeive her poor relations on Sunday Afteraoon. 1 Cousin, ' she said coldly extending her fingers. * It ie loDg sinoe you cnme here last. Much has happened. You have doubtless a great deal to teil üb when we have time. 'Will yon sit down ? Give your cousin a chair, Flavia.' ' You mean it, Cornelia ? ' Florry asked timidly. 'Sitdown. You are at home. WithyourownpeoplB.' Cornelia answered in jerks, as if euch syllabie was au effort. ' Perhaps wa shall learn, in good time, your name. Your married name,' she added with emphasis. ' I am called — they called me — Sinclair.' *Oh I Sinclair.' '. OE-in.ini p: uijuimcc-d the niune as if betv een Cottle and Sinclair there was indeed a gulf. ' Is your huabond living?' 'Ho is — he is— ' ehe caught the atern rebuke in Coraelia'e eyes and dropped her own. ' He is dead." 1 You are living near here 1 ' 'Laurenze haa found mealodging inMansell Street, near the ib'8 THE BELL OF ST. PAULS ' You are a widow. Ton have dropped your widow'a So haa Claudia. I judge nobody. But iniue I weoruntil my dying day.' Flavia and CaBBie, Standing spectatora, held their breath. What did thia mean ? 1 She said that such an one should be reoeived with love and ailence,' whispered Flavia, ' ehe never eaya anything without a Florry," said Lucina, ' yon are welcome. There are my daughtera Flavia and Cassie. Thia is my aon. Yon are indeed welcome, for the aake of old times and your sii Lady Waller." ' Cousin Laurence,' aaid Cornelia, ' I saw all along that you were Lucy'a child. Thia should be a joyful evening to na.' She amiled, but it was one of tliose amiles which aome aculptora de- lineate on lnarble faces — muscularly correct, yet with no glad- ness in them. 'I do not know whetherthe newa that you are indeed our cousin, or whether the recovery of Florry ehould give ue the greater joy. I hope, Florry, that your last lettera from Lucy, her lädyahip, were satiafactory. You will teil her of thia hnppy nieeling and give her our united lovea. "When ehe knowa all — all— sie will be — yes — ehe will be joyful indeed.' The girls wondered. Their Aunt Cornelia waaalwayacandouc itself, she disguiüed nothing and concealed nothing. Bykeep- ing tbe piain truth before her niecea ehe had done mucb to prevent the growth of conceit. Kow, however, she was manifest to all, as playing a pari, and playing it both unwillingly and But Claudia underatood. The Honour of the Family demanded tbia aacriike; that, before everything. And beeauae Florry her- solfconld not but feel tha constraint and malte -believe, she Bat beaideher cooing and murmuring, pressing her hand and whisper- ing over and over again soft words of kindnesa and welcome, while Cornelia, her formal welcome completed, aat upright with her aet emile npon her lips. ' We now underatand, Coaam Laurence,' aaid Lucius, ' why you came to ua, and why you have etayed here, and wby you have heaped so many kindneseea on our heads. It was for your molher'a eake, You will teil her, when you write, that we have not forgotten her, nor the old days when she came to enjoy my father's converaation on Sundsy Aftemoou. Ferbaps bis wisdom may have halped her upward flight. Teil her that we rejoiee unfeignedly— aay unfeignedly, lest ehe should think that there is - - ; nglo grain of euvy in any of us — I say n grain' — he turned back on Cornelia in order to ahow everybody that he mean» no reüecüon upon her, ' one aingle grain of envy in any of our 'OUR COUSIN 1 389 hearts. No : we are proud of her rise to fortnne and distinotion, She adds another name to Bank Side. With thoae of Shake- Kare, Marlowe, Massinger, VioesimoH Cottla and Clement dagine, tbe historiana will heaceforth conple that of Lucy, Lady Waller.' ' WABNED OFF. ? I wtsh,' Laurence grumbled, ' that somebody ebehad this offiee. Felix wonlil have enjoyed it. There'a a sad want of personal oonsideration about Prophets.' He was holding in hia hand a lettc-r from Claudia. 1 Go at once,' she said. ' There ia no time to be loet. See tbe young man Obrer Luttrtl and givo tum, from me, a final waraing, Give it in these worde. " Desist immediately. A danger of which you suspect nothing hangs over your head, Desist immediately. Tbere ia yet time." Ifhebestillobdurate, he muBt tako tl 'I don't halflike it,' Lawrence repeated. ' Felis ought to. havebeen sent.' For one young man to warn Bnother ought to be an eaey tbing to do, becanse one ahould always be ready to speak np ia tbe cause of rirtue. Bat it is a proceeding which dotb always somewhat smack of the Prig. For tbe professional admonitor, tbe preacber and teaoher by trade, it ia withont donbt a very easy thing. He is always wagging that forefinger. Nay, some members of tbe profession are never really happy nnless tbey are brandishing it in the face of a sinner. Laurence did not like it at all, but still be obeyed and carried the Job throagh. In the discharge of bis duty, there- fore, he called npon tbe Demonstrator of Physics at bis Labora- tory in the City College. The long students' room was empty : nono of the mcn were working at tbe tables ; vacation abso- lnte reigna in September ; and tbe footsteps ecboed loudly aa Laurence walked down the room towards tbe Lecture Hall. Oliver was in his private room and came out. ' Yon ? ' he asked with surprise and amall ehow of oordiality, * Yes, can I bave a few worda with yon ? ' ' We can talk here. There are no students. ' Tbrongb the open door of the private room, Laurence savf that there was another visitor half sitting, half leaning upon the table— with a cigar of the largest kind between hui Ups. Hfl 290 THE BELL 0F ST. PA UL'S recogniaed Ihe man as the awaggering blustering talker of ths Bichmoud diimer. ' I have boon aaked to apeok to you — to deliver a meaaage.' * Oh 1 ' Oliver aasumed that he came from Caesie and hardened hia heart. ' I am told that the meesage is of the higheat importance, tut I have not been informell, wby.' ' You are myBterioua.' 'When I teil you that I am a cousin of Miss CaBaandra Cotüo, you will nndorataud that I do not visit you out of any friendliness.' ' Yuti a c onsin of Cossie'a ? ' Lawrence inclined his head. ' Bince you are Cassie's cousin,' snid Oliver, 'yon are entitlecl to an cxplanation, I waa not aware of the relationship. I sup. pose you have heard what has hnppened. It iä tnie that we were engaged. It ie also true that it waa a pcrfoctly fooliah engngeinent for two people with no money at all. Nothing could have come of it. When I quits understood that it was fooliah and impoaaible I broke it off, That was really kinder than keeping it on.' ' You alao Bwore to — te öfters — that thera had been nothing of the kind.' ' That was in order to protect the young lady. And it waa at her own request. Do you lilame me, I fl.sk, becauae I did what I could to aave a girl from the prejudice which sometimea attachea to on« who haa had au üugageinent broken off? ' 'You are doubtleas estreinely considerate.' Indeed, bis manner waa that of one who bad weighed the matter very care- fully. ' However, I am come on the part of Mra. Laverock.' 'Of Mrs. Laverock? The Prophet person? "What have I got to do with that woman ? Am I a ruenibor of her hiim. bugging Community ? ' ' A Eule roapeot if you pleose, Mr. Luttrel, for my cousin.' 1 Oh I reepect — reäpect,' ho repeated losiog hia temper. ' Ab mnch as you lue, Sir, Waller, if that is your real name. I deoply reöpect all your urasina — the clerk and the pew-opener and the telegraph girl and all. And now will you please to go on witb your procioua moaaage 1 ' Just then the gentleman in the private room came eaunter- ins out, hia handB in hia pocketa, rolling hia Shoulders, andatood behind Oliver, as if to protect hiio. ' My meaaage ia a Wartung.' ' A warning ? ' Olivor laughed, but he turnad cnrioualy white and the odd ugly look feil upon hia face. ' To warn me — me ? Mrs. Laverock ia good enough to warn nie?— Indeed I — To repent and be converted and to join the Early Church ? ' uro. 'WARNED OFF' 'Towaxn a gentleman,' said Mr. Harry Stanley with a roll of the Shoulder that placed himself offensively close to Laurcnce. ' I Kay to warn a gentleman seema to me a thing that wants ex- planation. I've Seen anian warned off a raeceourse, andanofher man warned not to turn up the King, and I've seen a man warned by the Bcak; bnt hang nie if ever I saw the man take his warning in a friendly spirit. Explain what you mean, Sir, whoever you are. What the Devil do you mean by threatening a gentleman? Explain, Sir,' he added with a fine but common phrase used for the Etrengthening of Speech, ' or we'll know the reason why.' Laurenee looked at bim slowly from head to foot. To he thus deliberately estimated makea a man angry. But the Australien was a good deal bigger than Mr. Stanley, and was apparently not in the least afraid. ' As for you,' he rcplied, ' I have no warning for you and I know nothing about you. Tour appearanee is not scientific, aml I ahould say yon would be moro at home on a raeeeourse or in a billiard-room than in a Laboratory. But, my swaggering friend, if you think to bustle mo I shall take it fighting." 'Well,' Said Mr. Stanley falling back, 'it'a no funeral oi mine. But I'll etand by and see fair play.' I You were so good as to promise me a warning,' aaid I I wül read yon the words coutained in my letter.' Laurenee drew it from hia poekot and opene-d it. ' Shall I read it in pre- Beiice ofthia— thia third person ? or shall I communicate it to your private ear? I would advise tho latter course, but of oourse it shall be exactly aa you please.' ' I have no secrets from my friend. Read it.' 'Yery good. Mrs. Laverock begs me to uae these words — I read thoni from her letter— " DesisL inline diately. A danger of which you BUKuect nothing hangt over your head. Desist im- mediately. There is yet time." That is my message, Mr. Luttrel. I know nothing of what it meane. But it doea look a liltle like being warned off the eourse.' He turned to Mr. Stanley. ' Have you any fiirther remark to make, Sir ? ' 'NÖthing,' Mr. Stanley rephed. 'It's no fight of mine. If you have read what you were told to read, you may as well go, mayn't you ? Might save further row. No good in getting up s, row, is there ? ' Oliver elearly took the warning like tho gcntlcman on the raoeeourse, in no friendly spirit, to judge from his face. Whon the shutting of tho doer bc-hind Laurenee echoed along the walla of the empty roozn, he eaught his brother by the Danger ! ' he cried. ' What danger ? Oh I What ämgrn ? ' c 2 391 THE BELL OF ST. PA UL'S Mr. Harry Stanley made reply alowly, ' There can be none escept from the man who wrota the thing,' he said. ? But conaider — why should he let oo 9 He Uvea by writing things. If it were to get about that ho's peached, he would lose bis living, and go on the parish. And who would he teil ? Ho can't luavo hia bod except to pull him- self about in a wheel-cbair; he's got no friends; he's alwaya been such a desperate bad lot that his relationa have long sinoe given him the Boot. Besidea, if he was to confess in the tniddle of Leicester Square be niight tura the oops on to me, but not toyoE. If he was to do that, who eould connect me with you? And it's his living, I teil you — his living: his whisky, his baccy, hia bed, and his room. Sometimea it'a an I O U to write and sign reatly für a night when the Juggins gets drunk. You can't dispute your own signature in che rnorning when it'a ahown you. Many a time I've seen that done. Sometimes it'a an acceptanee — always there'sa signature in it. Generally it'a a, little Job : but I've heard of one or two big joba — none ao big as oiirs, to be stire— that have come off by bis help. Besidea it'a his pride, he '11 prop himaelf up in his blesaed old chair and look at the two signatures eide by side and lie'll laugh and awear a' 'elp him if ha knowa, himaelf, which ia the gentiine and which die other. No, my boy, that man can't give himself away. He can't do it. If ho wanted to ever ao much he couldn't — because he hasn't sven got any pals ; and the house ia fall of Itahana and foreigners. Cheer up, Oliver. Don't look as if you were going to put in aeven yeara of the best at Port- ' Well, it does aeem impoBeible.' 1 Seem I It ia impossible. Think, man. Ton didn't find the thing. You've got nothing in the world to do with it. Mayes found it, or Mayes' Clerk. Mayes, who aweara he re- membera aigning it. Lordl what ajolly old Liar he ia, to be sure I Why it's got nothing — just nothhig to do with you. Look here. I've been finding out what will happen. The Treasury chapa will fight. They're bound to fight. Mayea will have to do the swearing. Not you — nor me — nobody bai Mayes. They can't call on anyone elae. I found that out be- forehand. It's aa safe a thing as ever was hatched. Because you aee, when the perjury ia once afloat, he's bound to etick to it. It's as safe as the Bank of England. 1 ' Then what does the wooaan meau r ' • "Who 1s she ? ' * They call her the Prophetess, but I never heard of her interfering in this way betöre. Aa a rule, it'a only speaking in atrange tongnea and rireaching and prophesying at her Chapel.' 'There ig something up,' Mr. Stanley replied, reflectively, ordi ?pe< ' that'a pretty eure. You've got no quarr el with. the l have you ? * ' I have never even aeen her.' ' Wa've all got people who owa uh a turn, and when they get a chance they will stick in the knife and they willtwiatit ifthoy can. Ia there anybody who's put her up to threatening you. ? ' ' Why,' said Oliver, ' there'a the girl Cassie, her niece. Perhaps ahe ' I What ia the matter with the girl ? * ' Well— there was a little nonsense at one time and I broke it off and ehe wanted it kept on, that's all.' ' All ? Why, man, what more do you want 1 Here's a chap ! He goea and throwa over a girl and then he ib aurpriaed when he gets a naaty one froni her friends. Why, man alive, you needn't be uneasy. It ia oll aa right aa possible. As for you being warned not to go on aa you have been going on, it'a part of the nsnal thing. Danger indeod I They can niaka a row about the girl if they lue. Let 'em — it won't hurt you.' Oliver breatlied inoro frcely. If it was only hia treatment of Caasie, why — then — they might indeed do their worst. 'You've done nothing,' hia brother continued, ' and you've got nothing to fear. Enough said about that. In tliree months time we ahall be about as rieh as we can expect. No more of the old game for me, I ahall go and live at Paria or Bruaaels, or Eome of thoae placea tili the memory has blown over a bit, becanae, you aee, my boy, a gentleman can't live on hia wita yprv well, without having unpleasant things eaid about hiin behmd hia back.' ' If the three months were only over ! ' Oliver eighed. I I wiab they were ; you should eoon be out of this mouldy old hole and have your own Chambera and live like a gentleman. I wiah they were, OUver, becauso I want money pretty iad just now. Last night I played on the aquare — had to— becauae there were too many eyes about. I lost thirty-two poundB — I did indeed — and I'm stone-broke. How rauch did the perjurer leiid you?' 1 Three hnndred, and it'a all gone except twenty." ? Give me ten, and stick liirn for another hundred. A hnn- dred ? Get a thouaand if you can. And aa for danger — why, Oliver, you look white about the gills still.* ' I waa thinking aguin, that if there should be any — But there cannot be — aa you say— there cannot be — it ia imposaible — it is quite impossible.' Nevertheleaa he feit ill at ease, Bo ill at ease that he fonnd it neceaeary to put the ease to himself over and over again in Order to strengthen hia faith. It was once Boid by a perBon of ?peciftl experience in sinfulneBB that the greatest puniahment 294 THE BELL OF ST. PAULS awarded to bim aa a tronagreasor waa the condition of eonatanl fear of being found out, and the neceaaity of fiuding oontinually new aasurancea for hie own luiud that disoovery was inipoaaible. Tina waa eiactly Oliver'a caae. Presently he was so borne down with disqniet, in spite of hia brother'fl brave words, that he walked ovcr to tho Southwark Bridge Road and aonght Mr. Mayeshimself. There was nothing in that good man's appearance to juatify bis fears. Certainly he looked perfeotly confident — it waa whilo he waa still under treatment and eonfidently expecting a speedy recovery of hia tnemory. ' Mr. Luttrell ' he cried. ' Sir, it does me good to see you. Chevalier, you ean go. It does me real good to see you. When I look at you, I sez " thrce inontha moro " I aoz. Throe months moro and the harvest will come in. Thero will be a reaping and a gathering. On'y throe montha more. And yon aa anrioua to begin as me, no donbt. Well, Sir, after the othor day'a asanrnneea, we may rest eaay. That young lady won'l claim afarthingof the money, not evenif sbeearnait by changing her name. You are ipiite safe, Mr. Luttrel.' ' Will you back that opinion by lending me another hundred ? ' ' To be eure I wilL and another at tha back of that if yon pleaae. Come in to-morrow morning and I will find the money for you somohow.' Here was solid safety. What danger eonld be meant ? To find that Mr. MayeB ahonld be rcady to lend him money— mors money — on the secnrity of that docuinent waa auch a relief aa may be feit by one spent with long ewimming when he finda hia feet at last upon the solid rock. 1 Then,' he said, ' you qnito reinernber, now, do you ? ' 1 Lord ! Yes,' Mr. Haycs replied aturdily. ' If I didn't I should have a eofteuing. The doctor told me that. I must remember. There was a time, I confeaa, when it did seem aa if I could remember everything in my whole life eicept that one thing. Overwork, aaya tho Doctor, overwork— strain of tho nervoua syetem; too much drink and not enough eiercise. Only thia morning I Beemod to rememher ipiite pl&io. Jnat now — but there — it will all come right again. The Doctor aaya ao. A few more electrio ahocka and then — but oh I it's a moat expenaive b i CHATTE R XXX. I fim MI Plokby, reacued and restored, everything blotted out and for- gotten, Bat alone in her lodginga. She hatl now, one would think, all that woman can want or pray for. In place of a coarae hack tlirown over a heap of shavings, a warm bei with soft denn linen : in place of four bare walls, a furnished room with a maid to wait tipon her r in place of Btarvation, aa many Hquare meala a day as she chose to ordor : and inetead of raga, the joy of wcaring onco more beautiful and becoming elothes. In addition to all this, a releaae from work, reatoration to her people and freedom from amiety. What roore could she desire ? Alas I The Goda who still punish ua for our aina, aometimea give na all that we want and leave ua still unhappy. Thia poor buffeted ereature, so forlom and lonely, accustomed for bo many yeara to creep along the lowest deptha in the Vale of Miaory, where the niud ia deepest and the thorns are tili ck est, was suddenly carried clean out of the dreadful place aad put into a garden all Bunabine and warmth. And yet— yet. When one ia alwaya hungry and cold and nnBatisned ! bo long aa one has to ply the needle with feverisb haste ia order to kocp the roof over head and to find the pittance of food which will stare off Death, there ia no room awakened to the voiceof reproaching conscience after conauming one good dinner at least and receiving an asaurance of another and yet another to come after. That is the reaaon why the good people who desire to convort the Jcwa provido euch a beau- tiful home- — you may aee it at Hackney — for the reception and Entertainment of Enquirers. The greatest criminal goes unre- Eantant so long as he goea himgry and cold. Thua doth the ody still take precedence of the bouI. Otherwise, conaeience would be stronger than the fear of Death and the sinnsr would knock off work in order to repent and with reaignation he down to die. In recognilion of thia great law, the legialators of the future, who will know of no patty, and be abaolulely indifferent to place, and will no longer eat their worda without shame nor stand up before the multitude with brazen brow to denonnoe what yeaterday they glorifled— will conetruct prisons for orimi- nals on the new principlo of leaving all the doora unlocked, Unding good and abundsuit f.-iod, nr.il ollei in.:; work on conditiona &s easy aa thoae which will then prevail ouiside. There wiU| of Com 596 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S courso be no prison dress,andso strongwillbe the public feeling on the Biibjeet, and so easy the road to rcpentanca and conver- sion, that the thief and the burglar will eit down aide by aide to eat and then repent together, and humbly pasa behind the Veil, nnd Magdalen herseif shali weep for ahame to see how her Bisters can forgive, though her own conscieuce doth never ceaae to upbraid. Thia, alasl was the case with Florry. Her nephew came every day to see her : he walkad abroad with her : he took her drivmg: he gave her pretty things euch as the poor soul had always loved : he talked to her continually of bis mother ; he inade her talk of the old aayi when the tivo were girle together : he warmed her atarvod heart -with love and tonderncss : and as for the paat— the thirty yeara aince ehe and her siater parted — and the dreadful misery in which he found her, Laurence said never a word, even of pity. All was to be forgotten. Nay : it was to bo ae if there was nothing to forget. Even Cornelia knowa not the tnie hiatory of those thirty years. Certainly it waa not the common story of degradaüon, drink,and horrible companionship. There werenoaignaof such things in the poor ereature'a wan face and hollow eyea : nor in her conversation : nor in her manner, which was as quick to ahow fceling aa in the daya of her innocent yonth. Was it for one sin, one impatient rebollion against poverty — that the poor creatuxe was punished so long and ao terribly? Let us not ask. Kow, at length, she who aeemod enlarged was truly laid in a Frison : even the Prison where there ia no puniahment but the presence of the past and the thought of what wiglit have Cornelia made haste to call lipon her. In her presence Florry Bat like a schoolpiil rcceiving admonition : or like Job receiving the consolations of Zopbar the Naamathite. ' Tou've come back to yonr fajnily,' ehe said, frigidly. 'I didn't bring you back. Mind, if I'd been aaked for my advice, I should have said that aomething weekly, which Lucy wouldn't mies, wonld have been proper. But he thought differont. Very well. For the credit of the family I ehall hold my tongne. Though how you had the face ' ' Laurence madc me,' she said meekly, 1 Althea koows that you uaed to go about In rags. They say she will marry Lanrence. Then thcre'll be two — >m"t and her — in Auatralia, who know. You can't tie 11p peoples' tongues. Pity you can't, but there it ia. Well you'll have to make up a> story and stick to it. You must end it up with going poor, eise Althea won't believe a Word of it.' Yea,' Florry murmured. 'Ohl oobody knowa exoept you, Cornelia,' ALL THAT SHE WANTED 297 "Fhere'a no call to teil Lucy. Not bat ehe'd have prido enough, now. But there'a Otha» to pomader. Cassie is going Out with yoa and Felis, and noüiing will do but the boy muat *"", Cousin Laurence says he ehall leam shorthand and 1 a newspaper man. He talks about Bending him to Sydney College ; but what's the use of College whea you aro going to bo nothing but a newspaper man ? Thore was one in the Bridge Boad, I remember, who used to get drank and beat hia wife shameful. Florry, if that boy ever learna the trnth, they'll have it out of l»"i and in all the papera, and it will be all over the world in no time.' 1 Oh I Cornelia.' ' Claudia said there would be changes. I wonder if ehe knew or if ahe prophesied. Women who prophesy get artml. Changefl there are, indeed. You've oome back, respec table— Fla via is going to marry the Chevalier, and he seventy I They're going to live with Claudia. On the collections, I auppoae. There'a another Title in the family. More rank, if you care for such nonsense. And now they nre at Luciua, wanting to buy the old houae and make it an office for the wharf behind. Why, if we seil the houee it will be liko putting an end to all of us — and who'a to have the Punchbowl and the books and the Plate 7 ' ' It would be a terrible pity to Hell it,' aaid Florry. ' Ton are going,' this amiable consin continued, ' among carriage Company. At least they teil ms so. Don't make your eister aahamed of your manne». Though how you will be able to Bit among them after all that 's past, I can'fc thlnk. Borne folk will brazen out anything.' ' Oh I Cornelia,' murmured thie poor womon. ' Mind, you've had a husband, you're a widow. Who was he ? what was he ? where did he die ? what did he leave you ? ' Florry ahook her head. The neeessity of thia invention had not yet occurrod to her. ' Make him — your Kichard — make bim a commercial tra- veller. That'a reapectable enough, even for herladyship.Iahould hope. A traveller in hops— there'a a great hop trada in the ? Cornelia, I cannot ' ? You must. How eise will yon get < Bister and thoae innocent girls and t ' Cornelia, oh I spare me.' ' You must make up your etory and stick to it,' ehe repeated. 'Well, Florry, I've been a good friend to you, and I'm your couain, and every right to speak my mind. A sad trouble and diagrace you've been to üb, but never ehall it be aaid that I 2o8 THE BELL OF ST. PAULS lowered the family credit by telling anyone.' Bha rose an shook her acauty akirta. 'Never. There'e a family party tc morrow eveniiig. Cousin Lam-onoe gives it, but Lucius takea the head of the table. Von are to conie. Oh ! yes. Ab if you'd always been reapeetable. Laurenco wouldn't hcar of anything eise, of courae. I hope Claudia won't begin to propheay, but there'H no telling what she mayn't do — such ia hör conceit, poor thing I There ia to be Champagne and the Best Service.' * I will come if I niuBt,' said poor Florry. 'You can begin about your husLand to.morrow evening. Get your hand in. Your huKband — your Richard — travelled in hops. He died in the North of England, of rheumatio gout. When Cornelia went away Florry eat motionless, her handa cl&spcd, thinkmg. Gencrally her thoughts went back to the terrible paat, now they were turned upon the future. Alaa I 16 was even more dreailful than the past. Sho saw herseif Irving with her aieter, always a lie upon her lips, dying with that lie unconfessed. No — ehe would not : ehe could not. Better even the old lifa of Btarvation and misery than thus to live and thus That evening no One camo to sce hör. Ehe aat quite alone in her room. Laurence was beeide Althea while she sang and played. Flavia and the Chevalier walked upon Bank Side hand in hand and made out their future aa if the span of threescore years and ton were in bis caae to be lengthened to the generoua allowance accorded to Abraham, in order that the whole world might be converted to the doctrines of the New Bumanity and tho Early Church. Felis aat with Cassis, eloquent over the great things which await the brave and strongin the Austrat She was alone. Preaently ehe took pen and papei — ehe who had written nothing for thirty years— and began a lettcr. Firat ehe wroto slowly and painfuily, but soon her thoughta found expression: — i I living in a dream. I ospect everyminute to wake out of that dream and find that I am again in rags, pinchod with hunger. For twenty long yeara I endured this misery and I eamiot underatand that it is ended. At first I cried, " Lord, how long ? " Then I ceased to lock for any end escept the end of Death. And now it has ended and yet I cannot feel that with tho end of punishmont will over coinc forgivonesB. ' You have made me promiae not to epeak of the past either to you or to your mothor. But how to koop that promiae 1 How can I fece Lucy without telling her everything 1 And it would make her so unhappy. Laurence, I cannot go with you. migb tbiui ALL THAT SHE WANTED 299 e stay here inobscurity: onlygive mea little toliveupon. I will take that from you. But is it, ai'tcr all, a drcani 1 ShaO I »wake once more to the old misery 1 'I have had a dream, Laurenee— I put döwn the pen and leaned baek in the chair— a low, soft, easy chair — before theiirs which I ha\e lighted bocausa the chill of twenty years ia in my very bones. 1 cloaed my eyes and I had a dream. I saw two g'rla — sisteis. They were poor, but they resolved never to park dt hing ahould part tbom. Than one married, and at firüt it seemed aa if her lata was going to be miserable indeed. Bat they remained togothcr, and thoy wont abroad together, and whÜe the married Bieter became rieh and honoured hy everybody her siater ahared in her ge-od fortune and became also a gracious lady loved and honoured. It was such a beautiful dream that the joy of it awakened nie and I remenibered that it was a dream, because they parted. Oh 1 they parted— why — whydidLuoy let mego? ' The old things coma back to me as I now sit alone, old words, old sayinga. Oh 1 I am always in a dream. Just now I heard the voiee of my Uncle Yiceaimns : he waa saying, " I can understand how those who have been injured in this world rnay easily in the nest forgive those oppressors and those who have done them wrong. It is, howevar, hard to understand how the wrongdoers can ibrgive themselvea." No ona was evei eo wiae as my Dncle Yicesimus. Alaal when he spoke of wrongdoers I thought they were like Indian savages, as far from us and all cur ways. There is one way better stall. If I were dead.' When the writer had got thua far the pen dropped out of her hand and she lay back in her chair thinkmg. In the days of her wretchedness she had been liable to assault from a certain great temptation, wlüch Oes in readiness to spring upon all prisoners and captives and oll that are desolate and oppressed. I wonder why the Litany hafi noror taken any notice of this temptation. When Florry was attacked by this tempta- tion, whatever the time or season, Bhe would creep out of her lodging and walk with resalution aoross Tower Hill and so into Tharuea Street and a place beeide the Street she knew so well. She was dragged to this place as a drunkard is dragged to the public -house. This evening the temptation aasaulted her with such force as she had never before feit. Were I Bunyan I ahould say that Apollyon stood before her armed \v\\\\ ÜreMfb] wMponBj with rage in his eyes and fire starting from his nostrils. The Temptation ight so be described. On the olher hand, this woman— sitting »1'ine at night, a terrible past behind, and a terrible future before : thiuking with what face Bhe skould meet her sister : with wbat a 300 THE BELL OF ST. PAULS clerad of faheboods she ahould hide the pitet : with what hypocriay ahe should sit among the inoooent girls — eeema a pieture mora terrible than that of Apollyon. At leaat one could rush upon that denion and slay or be slain. But tbere ia a Dewon who never takes ahape, who always hovcra around iiia victime, and never goes away and cannot be assailed by uny armsof man. It is far, far more terrible to encounter thia Demon of the Valley than the hardest fighting Devil that ever roamed thoae glooniy dcptbs. The Temptation came in a voice soft and kindly perauasive. 1 My dear,' it aaid, ' now is the tüue for you to go. You hava reated awhilo : you have been clothod and warnied : you oaa never faee your aister: you must not, indeed, think of such a thing. You muet now, having been refreshed and restored, givo no more trouble to anybody.' She arose, therefore, being of a soft and yielding disposition, and accastomed to do what sho was told. The clock on the mantelsbelf pointed to teu. She took up the letter she had written and read over again the last worda— * There is one way botter Etill. If I were dead.' She put on her jacket and her bat. Tben she threw herself on her kneos and bo ternainecl tat fti e minutea. W'hen aha got np she was weeping. She Icvked about the room ae if for the laat time, and tuen, monnm ?,• and £? 'bii. :?;,'. she crept down the 6taira and out into the etreet. From ManseU Btree* to Thames Street ia not far : ehe croaacd Towor Hill ; on her left rose np the great white Tower, now black m the night. All the way she was led as by a hand and she was exhoxted aa by a voice. Beside the longQuay and Terraee of the Custom Hölise, whieh at night isclosed, there are stiiirs, broad atonestaira, with aniron railing running down thom and a little atone landing-place at the top : you reach the Blairs through iron gates in the Street. In the daytime tbere are boatmoii hanying abont ; survivors of the Thames watermen. By night there is no one. Great timber piles are atuck into the bed of the river just below theae atairs, for the mooring of barges, and when the tide is going up or down the water rushea boihng, aueking, tearing at the timbera aa " 't would gladly pull them up and hurry them away far out Hither she came and here she stood looking into the water, while the voice tempted and urged her to plunge in and so make an end. Onlyoneüttlestep: nomoretrouhle: nomoremisery : no more tears ; no more starvntiüu, Bold, nga, and shaniei Just one step : the river, the rusliing river, the kind and inerciful river, the river of rest and aleep, would do the rest. Think, every night there are these wretcbes gazing at tha river, on every "bridge they Btand: at the head of all the Staks: ALL THAT SHE IVANTED 301 Iat thc wall of all the Embankments. Ton may evenmeet tbem on the Biver Wall between Barking and Tilbnry : they are Bcattered everywhere along the river bank. They look with Umging yet with torror at the rushing water : und the Templer Bings the aame refrain for eaoh. No one was on the stah'a : after dark no one ever is on thosa etaira : she walked to the head of the Steps and caught the iron ra.il and looked over. The tide was beginning to nm down, but as yet the watera were not hurrying and tearing up or down : they were qiüetly lapping at the Bteps, and whispering among the piles: but they were very black : the sky was cloudy : the river was dark. Florry etood there, her hnnils catching the rail, leaning and listening to the Yoice which invited her to step over and ' See,' it said, aoftly and aflectionately, ' the water ia smooth and yielding: it will elose over you gently: yon shall not be banged and beaten agornst barges and cliains : in a naoment you will ii:i-, T,i !..:? .'[?.? . trlfHMinnt water ie lika falling asleep. Farewell, Florry. i'areweU— Farewell.' She would have taken thal etep. But another voice spoke to Iher. It was the voice of Lucy. ?Ohl my Bister,' it said. 'Oh! mysister — my Bister — Florry — you cannot die without a word trma mo 1 Wait — wait — wait — tili I have time to speak. Florry, wait for only one word of love from me.' The voice of the Tempter niEide answer. ' Why wait ? Sha will never know. Nobody will everknow. Lie down— he down, and fall auleep.' The wash of the water was like caressingmusic. ' Lie down — he down — welcome aleep and everlasting rest.' And then a third voice apoka to her. The voice of Claudia. 'Florry,' she said imperativ ely, 'go home and get to bed. Tbia min ute. My dear, I never naean to let you go again — never— never — not until the Angel of the Lord bruigs for yon the fine Iinea, clean and white, which is the righteousnesa ol the Saints. Go home— Go honia I ' She obeyed. Sha weufc hoiue crying. And like a child she eried herseif to uleep. TUE BELL CF ST. PAUL'S CHAPTER XXXI. War are we here ? ? Aa each oarae in tum, they looked abtrat and aakedeaeh otherthis question, whieh no one oould the Why wore they MMmUsd togetherf For all were there. Lucius and his daughters : Felix : Altheit and her father : and Laurence, who know no more than the othcrs why ho had beea ordered to aasist at an unknomn Function. The Chevalier waa also present, bat now dressed aa an elderly gentleman who respecta his personal appenranco. Kay, was not he about to become a bridegroom ? His hair was cut : he showed a grey mouatacbe and a clean ahavon chin ; his linen waa apotlesa : his dresa waa aa ncat aa if he still belongcd tu the Auatrian Cavalry in which he had formerly served : liia hands— thoy wcre smnll and pretty handa— were caaed in gloves, and his boote — who, to loolt at these boots, would believe in the old oloLh slippera ? They were all present, and no one knew why. Only Claudia was absent, and aomehow, without being told, everybody under- etood that ehe would presenlly airiye, The last to eome was Mr. Mayes. He was anxious and gloomy because the medical treatincnt, wMch ha had now abandoned in disgust.haddonehim nogood, andtheyounggeneralpraetitioner had aaaured him that he might now rely coufidently oa what hia patient üalled a aoftcning. What is the good of Coming into mortey— getting a whole tenth part ofMr. Norbery's Estate— if you've got to go silly aftcr it lue Mr. Backler, deeeased ? Thus fate still loves to mock rnanlriiid. 1 Look here, Mister,' ho addrossed Mr. Indagine. ' You're tha Master of thia House.' ' I am not tho Muster of this House,' Mr. Indapne replied. 1 Well, then, perhaps you will teil me what it rueaua.' ' I do not know. I have not aaked anybody here. Althea, pleasa let thia person undei-stand that I know nothing about it. Ohl dearl dearl what does thia interruption mean?' 'Iudeed, Mr. Majes,' said Althea, 'we are all in completö ignorance, but I dare say we shall know boforo long.' ' I was told that a taee was going to be trieiL' ? Indeed ? Then you know more than anybody eise.' 'A eaae going to be tried,' Mr. Maye3 repeatod. 'What Bort of a case 1 Is thia the County Court ? Is it a Police Court 1 Wbat does it mean ? ' ' I do not know. Kone of ua know.' 'Thcre'sthe Chevalier— lookat Hirn — dresseduplikeagentle- man. That's hie gratitudo. Whilo ho was with ino he dressed like a pauper. What's he doing here 1 I might eiuumoDB bim for going away without lawful notice— it's illegal dismisBal — and I will, too. I aupposa he's coine into a fortune. Got up from the table the day before yesterday and said he was going, Said he wouldn't stand it any ' ' Hush," said Flavia. ' Here is Sister Claudia.' She Btood in the opea doorway. She was dresaed as if for Chapel with her black lace mantüla over her head. She threw it aside and atood for a moment looking round the room just as she did in the Chapel. But thero was no sniile upon her lips: her face waa atoro and hard. She was no longer the Prophetesa of Mercy, but of Justice. She possessed so largo a measure of mesmeric force that she became in theeyesof all whatshe wished to be. Everyboüy underatood that tho oecasion was one of the greatest gravity, and that, whatever tlie nrtture of the Function, this was the President, Jiidge er Lcarter. Wonderful that ono eo amall ahould possess such power und ehow so much dignity. But FIavia'8 eyes flashed. ' At last,' she whispored to CaBsie. "Atlastl Ohlmydear. You shall berevenged. The Chevalier has done it all. He's the only one— and, ohl doesn't he look noble ? ' Claudia took her seat aolemnly at tho head of tho table in tho Dootor'a armchair. The others gathered about the table, exeept Mr. Indagine, who took his own armchair and sat apart, sppearing to take no interest in the proceedings. ' Brothers and sisterB,' said Claudia, throwiiig her veil over heT Shoulders and raising her face auddenly öfter her masner before the eongregation. Like all wlio poasem tho divine gift of apeech she made every person present believe that he himsell was the special object of her attention. 'Brothers and aistera, I have asked you to come together thia day in order to try a ra-iminal before Hb crime haa becn Ic'iy.lly oomnäUed — that is, before the law haa been able to take coj.iiisa.nce of it. The guilty person will be here in a few iniuutes. 1 have warneil bim — onee, twiee, thrice — that he desist from his evil ways. Sineo nothing eise will Eorve, he ehall he adinuuislied in the sight of all, and hia crime proclaimed befora his own friends. This will bo better For De and more wholesome for him than that he should fall into the hands of Justice. In this out Churcb, we do not bale man before magistrates, nor do we punish them at all save with the outpouring of Love. If men wül cormnit injustice lipon us they may do it without fear of the law and its penalties. But we seek to prevent them if we can by other means. The wrong-doer, when he lenves thia room, will not be foüowcd by the Law. Nay, if he choose to ma further risk, he may eonthme in his wrong.. THE BELL OF ST. PAUVS doing. But hia sin will havo found him out,, and he slmll stand confesaed in hia true light before you all. I eipeet Oliver Lnttrel to appear before ufi all.' ßhe ceased. Theo everybody gasped, bocause now everybody, except Mr. Mayee, understood who was the wroug-doer. And Cassie caught her Bieter by the hand. 1 Don't Ißt them,' she whisperod. ' Don't let them, Flavia." ' It isn't about you, Casa,' her sister replied. ' It is a very differout thing. But he will be punished for hie behaviour — no one waa ever worse punished.' Then the door oponed and Oliver himaelf appeared. Ab aoon aa he stepped wilhin theroom Felis placed himaelf, perhapa accidenlally, at tbe door. Certainly it would have been a big and strong man who could force his way through a door barred by Felix. Oliver looked about him in astonishment. He met faoes which were turned upon him with hostility, wonder, or ourioaity. Altheft' a eyes were grave : Cassie hung her head : Laurents looked hard : Lucius, wondering: Mayes — what had Mayea to do with Cassie? — bewildered; the Chevalier, calm and cold. But wben he caught Flavia'a eyes he read in them exultation and revenge. It was, then, that business of Cassie's, after all. 'What does thismean?' he asked. 'I am oome in obe- dience to a myeterious note Inviting me to assiat at something — I am not told what. Are we rehearsing a Comady ? ' ' No,' said Claudia, sternly. 'Let Tis get on, then,' eaid Oliver, 'I have not learned ajiy part, whatever it 1b, So I will be a apeetator.' 'Youog man ' — no Judge could have been more impreBaiv» — no foreßnger ever lifted could he more terrible, and yet sha was only a Jittle woman — 'yon have been warned. You Lava been warned three timos. You have been Bolemnly enjoined to turn away from your wickedness — but you have hardened your haart. Any one who was not rushing upon hia fate would have known that hia wickedness had been diacovered— yaa — thewhola of the plot — the whole of the conapiraey. I have brought yoa here, therefore, in order that your friends— those who have loved you — those who have built the highoat hopes of your future — those who have believed you to be an honourable man — may leam what manner of man you have become, and of what wickednesa you are capable. You are here in order that the last Etep of that wickedneaa may be prevented. You are here, also, in order that you may have a loophole of escapo.' Oliver turned white. But he did not speak. The BuddennesB of this public attack took away the power of apeech. Hia heart waa truly hardened and his eyes bliaded. For be still THE SENTENCE OF THE COURT < n Bpite of this plninncss of apoeeh, that the buainoF.s ,8 that concerning Cassie. Thia he still believed, although the presence of the man Mayes sfcouid have made him widerstand. ' As," he Said, ' I am not disposed to play any further part in this folly, I ahal) leave you.' He turned to go, but Felix stood before the door. ' No,' aaid tho strong young man, I If I am kept by force,' said Oliver, ' I must stay, I snppose. Go on, therefore, with yonr bu-sinesa.' He took a chair and sat at the lower end of the table, and tried to look unconceraed. ' Nobody knew,' Claudia replied, ' excopt yourself and my. aelf and one other. But since nothing eise will turn yon aside we must take that way. Chevalier, will yon teil everybody what you have told me ? ? Oliver looked up sharply. What od earth had this man to do with Cassie ? The Chevalier stepped to the table. •Bister Claudia,' he said. ' Fortwoyearaand more— until the day before yesterday— I was in the aervice of Mr. Joseph Mayes.' ' Youwere/saidMr. Mayes huskily, Somethingdisagreeable, he now suspected, was about to be revealed. I I was in the Service of Mr. Joseph Mayes,' the Chevalier repeated, in his soft and gentle voice. ' I was his clerk, bis cook, and his messenger. Before I waa so fortunate as to meet with this employment I livedin a houae near Soho Square, filled with foreign peopie — Italians, Swiss, and others — for the most part as poor as myself. Some of us lived two and three together : in one roooi of the honse, however, there lived by himaelf — an En^lish- man. He had ooee been a lawyer and — I know not— perhaps a man of consideration. For aometbing that he had dono he had lost his position and his friends. Everybody in the houae had lost tliose. But this man had loat his honour as well. 1 He was paralysed, and sat all da; lung in a chair with a table before him : he could wheel himself about in his chair : if snybody would sit and drink with him, or play carda with him, he was happy. Sometimcs men came to aee him on business, and after that he would keep the door loeked. Everybody knew that he was engaged upon the devil's work, but it was no one'a buEwesB to interfere. ' After I oame to Southwark upon my new Service I nsed to go to Soho on Sundaya in order to seo theae my former friends and fallow.esilea. My principal friend waa one who, like myaelf, was once a gentleman of Hungary. He is now a waiter at a Club where they dance and feast and gamble all night. For these revellera he runa about opening bottles, and carrying auppara. In the daytime he sometimes playa eards with this Englishman out of kindnesa. One day, not long ago, tUw Mg OU bar 306 T/fS BELL OF ST. PAULIS EngliehmaD drank so nmeh that he feil asleep. On the table lay Home papsra whicli he bad been writing — my friend saw on that paper a naine he knew — bocauae it was the name of my employer — the name of Joseph Mayea.' ' My name— mine ? ' cried Mr. Mayes. ' I don't rcmember.' He groaned, thinking thia waa another aymptom. 'That'e the second thing I can't remember.' ' My friend therefore copied the paper and gave me a copy. It ia höre.' The Chevalier pulled an envelope out of Ms pocket and laid it on the table. ' Then my friend watohed and dia- covered the man who employed thia clever writer, and when he gave me the paper and told me the etory be offered to show me that man if I would go to the Club with him.' Flavia followed the etory with breathless interest, inelining her head at every point as if to score another. If the Chevalier from Inno to tiine turnod to her ahe amiled and nodded ap- provingly. 1 The paper waa a very eurioua paper indeed. It was nothing leaa than the will of a dead man, rieh while he waa Uving, drawn np eis or aeven years alter he waa dead.' Oliver glanced round qnickly. Ko sentinel on duty was ever more conscientious than Felix in guarding that door. He leaned hia chin upon bis hand again and listened without any fiirther outward emotion at all, except that hia eyea ehifted uneasily towarda Mr. Mayea, who listened with open mouth, breathmg heavily. ' Tho paper intereated me bo miich that I borrowed the dreas of a waiter and I wect with my friend to the Club. Presently, when the theatres were over and the rneinbers began to come in, the man who employed the akilied pon arrived, havitig with him two ladies and a gentleman. My friend and I waited upon thom and gave them their aupper and their Cham- pagne. When the aupper was finished the ladieB danced a little and went away, Then the two wentto the card-room andplayed all night. Yes : I waited on them all night long in the card- room. The geittlemaa who engaged the Services of the sküled writer is named Mr. Harry Stanley, and the other gontleman, hia companion, you eee before you— he sits at the end of the table.' Oliver made no sign of having heard, But Mr. Indagine at this point sat up, mwmuring ' Stanley ? — Stanley ? ' ' So I learned,' he said, 'what had been done. I read the copy whieh Siater Claudia haa before hör, until I knew it by heart. And I waited. Now mark. One day, fönt weeka ago, I was at work for my master, Mr. Mayea, aorting and reading papera for him. He was c-ut. This yoiuig gentleman, Mr. Oliver Luttrel, called and asked to aee him. He beld in hie band, trying to conccul them bebind him, a bündle of papera. *TIfE S ENTE NC E OF THE COURT' He did not go away immediately, but he engaged me in talk, still trying to bide this packet of papers— one haa not been s> conspirator for nothing — I became auEpicioue— I pretended to observe nothing. I pretended to turn ioy head, I pretended not to see when hv Inid llini pucki-t ainon^ die pap'-TE- an the table. I even helped him by oovering them carelessly with another bündle. And then he went away. I took up bis packet : I tumed down one corner, and I wrote thereon an aecount of how the paper came on tho fable in amall charactars and in ray own language. Thoro it will be found. Kow, Sister Claudia, open the paper on the table and let us know what it is.' ' It ia called the last Will and Testament of Samuel Norbery. Shall I read it ? ? 1 It needa not. Word for worii it is the aarne aa the paper which I found, and Mr. Mayes thinks ia a genuine will. Yes — the forgar of that will is the paralysed Englishman. Ha was employed by Mr. Harry Stanley, and hia aooomplice is Mr. Oliver Luttrel.' Oliver lifted his head and spoke quietly and with perfeet seif- posaeasion. 1 Thia ia a very pretty story, indeed : and craftily put together. Two thinga ahalj oonfound yon. First, who is this Mr. Harry Stanley, of whom I know nothing, that he Ehould forge a will leaving Mr. Norbery's Estate to hia nieoe? What knowledge ehould he haveof Alihea 1 And neit, the will itself: Mr. Mayes remembers and can awear to the eignature. As for your copy, of course you must have made it yourself. That is all I have to say.' But the Poet apoke. ' Oliver, you had onoe a brother named Stanley, It is your And Laurence spoke. ' If the man Stanley is a handsome, black-haired man with a loud langh and a swaggering mauner, I have seen hin twice in Mr. Luttrel's Company, both at Richmond and in his laboratory.' Oliver retumed to hia old position, chin in hand, looking straight before him. And he made no further sign of being moved. Then Mr. Mayes orose and spoke. 1 Chevalier,' he asked humbly, 'isit true that you saw him put the papers on the table ? ' ' It is true.' ' Is it true that you have a copy of the Will made by your friend before ever it was laid upon the table ? ' 1 It ia quita true.' 'Then, Chevalier, why didn't yon teil me so at the very beginning ? ' 3o8 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S 'Eecause you said that you remembered yonr own Sig- na turo.' Tliea Mr. Mayes made confession. Quite like an Early Christian, as Fla via afterwarda observed, ho confoaaed openly. 'I've been & fool,' he said. This, indeed, was the sum of his eonfeasion. But he went on to show the nature and the ex tont of hia folly. ' I never dreamed that the will was a forgery, and I thought I ougbt to remember it. The more I tried the lesa I conld remember it. I was aahamed to own up. I went to a doctor and all — they gave me shocks between the nape of my neck and the tongue : it coat me six guineas a day, and they cut off my drink. "When I woultln't go on any longer they Haid I should get woree and worse and have a softening and die I — all because I conld not remember what never hap- pened. Forger I Villain I Forging Yillain ! ' he roared, tunnng fiercely upon Oliver. Caaaie shrieked and hid her face in her hands. ' Easy, man,' said Felix. ' Xou ahall bave it out with him somewhere eise. Easy I ' Mr. Mayes checked himself. 'Tea,' he said. ' Elsowhere. He's borrowed fonr hnndred pounds of me, besides what he's made me pay the Doctors. Yes — I'll have it out with him elsewhore. He shall have no peace tili I've got it out of him. Ha ! ' Mr. Mayes plnnged his hands into his poeketa. With some men this action aigniöes resolution. ' "Well, I haven't got a softening, and there was nothing to remember. Mind that — I know now, if there had been, I shonld have remember cd it. It's all true. The Chevalier has his faulte, bnt he can't malte up lies.' ' Sir,' said the Chevalier, ' 1 thank you.' 1 No — he ean't — I believe every woril of it. If all foreign noblemen are like tho Chevalier, the Eooner we bring 'em over in a lnmp and make 'em Clerks the better.' ' Again, I thank you,' said the Chevalier, gravely inolining hie head. ' And I haven't got a softening after all,' he sigbed heavily. * As for the precions will — here it ia.' He drew it ont of hia pocket and threw it upon the table. ' I was going to give it to a lawyer this very day. Now I'm prepared to ewear that I never did sign that will, and anybody that likes may give it to his lawyer; I wash my hands of it. I've been led to believe tnat I should getwonderful great things out of it — butwhat's all the money in the world if you go Billy ? And as for yoo — ' he turned again upon Oliver, 'I will — I will — I will wait tot you outside.' He left them, Felix opening the door for him and resoming bis position as Inner Guard ot Tyler. -THE SEA'TENCE OF THE COURT' 3°9 t: ' One thing more,' Baid the Chevalier. ' I Bhould Üke to read the writing of which I hava apoken. It ia hexe.' Es turned ovcr a coraer of the will and showed it elear and small. ' It ia mitten in mj own language. Liaten. " On thia day, August the 15th, 1687, this document was brought to the house and laid npon the table by Mr. Oliver Luttrel, aecretly as he thought." That ia alL' Oliver at this point lifted his head and took the paper froni the Chevalier. He looked at the writing. He then took up the copy and compared the two with the appearance of one not greatly intereated. Hie curioaity aatisficd, he rollod both to- getaer, placed them in hie breast -pooket, buttoned hia ooat and resumed his former attitude. No one interfercd. Tha action was understood to be a finish to the whole business. There waa an end. Nothing more would be heard of that will. It was at this point that the Doctor arrived. ? Why,' he cried, ' hero ia a goodly assemblage. Oliver, my dear boy,' be clapped his adopted son on the Shoulder, ' wo haven't aeen you for agea, Are you giving them a leaaon on Science ? Why are you all gathered together ? ' ' We have now finiahed, Dr. Luttrel,' said Claudia, ' Every- body will go away. The Court haa been lield. The Seiitenee of the Court is that evarything be forgotten that can be for- gotten. In onr Church we do not only forgive ; we forget : we grieve and pray for such as offend, and we forget. In this matter let os all be Early Christians : let us pray and hope and ' Why ? ' said the Doctor, ' what has happened ? Of late, something new happens every day. Ia this aome device of yours, Lauronce 1 ' ' No, Sir : thia was none of my handiwork.' 'CaBsie,' Flavia whispered, 'you see him at last as he is. Now you won't fret for him any longer. Oh 1 you oan't — the wreteh I Yon are revenged, my dear." 'Let us all go,' said Laurence. The last to go were Althea and CaBsie. These lingered. ' Oliver,' Baid Caaaie, holding out her hand, ' I am going away. I am going to Australia. Let us part friends.' He refused with an angry gesture. 1 You will never see nie again, I think. Let HB ahake bands.' * No,' he said roughly, ' Give her your hand, Oliver,' said Althea, ' Oh 1 Let her at least forgive you, Oliver. It ia farewell to the old Love." ' The last iÜuaion we ahall destroy will be the illusion of Love,' he remembered hie own words. Go,' he Baid, hoaraely. The girls obeyed, with tears in their eye«, 3>° THE BELL OF ST. PA i but the Doctor, Mr. There were left in ihe ei Iudagine, and Oliver. 1 What is it, my dear boy ? ' s&id tbe Dootor. ' There ia Borne kind of trouble, what is it ? ' • My friend and brother,' seid the Poet, laying bis band upon the Dootor'e sboulder, ' wo tuwe been dreaming. It is time that we ahould bo awakened." ' What is it ? ' ' Remember how you atarted twcnty yeara ago with a great Boheme. You brought home & gipay child. You would educate him. All the hereditary tendenciea ahould he ao mnny atepa by whioh be ahould rise. You would teaeh him no Religion : there ia, you aaid, ao Btrong a Natural Religion tliat he will learn it for himaelf : and trom the Natural he would rise to the Spiritual. That aeeraed certain to you. You would bring hirn up with no illuaioQB. He ahould learn the naked truth : overy other man is, you would teach him, a natural enemy : the root of everything out of which the loftiest apiritual lifo springa ia tho aimple Law of Seif Preservation. You remember what you thought would liLLppen. Äs huindtiitvitsi lf, yimsaid, starting with nnawakened brain and nothing but a hunting instinct and obedience to that Law, is destined to rise to auch a height as we cannot even yot coneeive, so the individual himself may roprc-seiit mankind and iu his own life riae to the loftiest Spiritual level, if he can etart unencumbered with illuaions and Buperatitions. By meana of roaaon and Bcience your pupil, your adopted aon, would pnsa through Natural to Spiritual religion. On the foundationa of ISelf Preservation he ahould riao to Seif Sacriüce. Was not this your dream 1 ' 1 Well ? ' But he looked curiously at hia adopted aon, who Bat in the aarne poaition with hard-set face. ' You think still, that it hus sueceeded ? ' ' I find myboy," said the Doctor, laying his hand on hisBon's arm — but Ohvar ahrauk back — ' wholly given up to Science. He ia feeling his way through Science to the higher Spiritual LevelB of which we Euinctinios talk. He leads the simple life. His heart is aet upon the higheat things.' ' Oliver,' aaid the Poet, ' I leave you to your father. Teil him what you plense. No one elaa will teil him anything,' They were left alone. Oliver lifted hia head. The Doctor was gazirtg upon him with troubled eyes. ' Speak, my son,' he eaid. * I am not your aon,' Oüver replied, gently. ' Let na cherish no rcore illusions. I am a gipsy— alwaye a gipay — a scientific! gipay— the only gipay who haa ever become a Fellow of the Royal Society, But first of all, a gipay. I have found my own THE SENTENCE OF THE COURT' 311 peopla, who, for that matter, have never lost aight of me. You tiiJuk that I have been living the simple life — meaning the temperate and abstemious life. On the contrary, of late I have beert getting as muck enjoyraent out of my life as I could afford. You tkink that my mind ia wholly aet upon aeicneo. On the contrary, it ia now wholly occupied by eontrivancea for securing more pleasure. Science, I begin to underatand, ie only yaluahle aa it afforda the meana of prolonging life, preventing diaeaae and extending the field of enioyment. Culture is only valuable as it quickena the aenaea. Wo have hut one life : let ob make, if we can, every moment in it a moment of delight : let ua anatch what we can before we die. You thought I should attain to Natural Religion firat, and what you call Spiritual Religion nest. I have not got to the first and X don't know what you iiiean by the aecond. You have alwaya wearied me with your talk of Natural and Spiritual Religion.. They are dreama — like your doctrine of öelf Saerifice : they are dreama and ahadowa. We are all fighting and trampling on each other : the strong men join together and make the weak work for them. The Beeret of life ia to join the strong men and help to keep down the weak, In order to get the meana of more animal enjoy- ment I have attempted a littlo manosuvre whieh baa failed. They would call it a crime, I believe, but it would have injured no one, and it very nearly aneeeeded. Perhapa aome one eise will teil you the detaila, if you wiah to hear them. Can I say any more ? I am sorry,' he added, ' for yovn- aake, that your experiment haa failed. Looking back, in cold blood, I think ?ou will own that it never had & chanoe of ancceaa. I aay that am aorry. You have been very kind. You deserved to aueeeed. You will aoknowledge, at leaat, that I pretended, in Order to please you, that you had suooeeded.' As for what the Doctor aaid in reply, that ahall remain un- recorded. Ohver, ten minutes latei, paaaed out of the honae and stood in the atreet. Before him atood Mr. Mayes with arma ontatretehed. ' Give me back my money,' he thundered. Oliver turned to the left with the air of one who neither ases nor hears, and so reached Bank Side. Mr. Mayea followed him, thundering ' Pay me — Pay me — Give me back my money.' He followed Oliver as far aa the Falcon Wharf. There ha deaiated, promiaing, however, and loudly repeating his promise, that he would call at the Laboratory day after day, every day. if it was forty yeara, there to demand hia money until he was He did call the very neit day — and every day afterwards for $, fortnight — but he could not find Oliver. JI* THE BELL OF ST. PA ÜL'S When the Professor of Phyaica of Greaham College eame back at tlie beginning of term ho found that bis Deinonatrator had reaigoed — leaving a letter. Most important buaineas, ha aaid, had called him away : buaineas whioh would keep bim away for five or six rnonths. Therefore ha muat regretfully resign. It ia mmoured that Oliver ia now reeiding at Heidel- berg, It is oertain that Mr. Mayes haa not received hie money. CHAPTER XXXII. TBE HONOUB OF IHK FAMILY. Evektbodt knew that the supper was provided by Laurenee, in honour of the reunion and Wore the final dispersion of the Family. Althea and her futher wero bidden to the Feast — that was underetood aa a sign or token that they wäre shortly to be- come more closaly connected witti tho Family : the Doctor was not going to be present— thia indicated the complete rupture of posaible relationa with Oliver : tho Chevalier was invited— - this marked hie formal reception into the Family. Claudia, after eighteen yeara, would break bread once more with her sister : Florry, after nearly thirty yeara, would again ait at meat with her consins : the Banquet should be intereating and even im. poaing. Up to a cortain extcnt it was both. If that was all, the atory of the evening could have been told in very few words. But it was not all, aa you ahall hear; and the end of that Banquet was, as happens to many Banquets, very difl'erent froni what had Leen anticipated. We ait down, for inatance, at the Banquet of Life. When wo rise from that (occasionolly) pro- tracted Feast, with ita many couraes and ita thousand diahes, how has it fared with us ? I cannot atippose that Bank Side, even in the daya when the Acadaniy was yoimg and thera were no wharves or bargea, but only houaea of aubstantial inerchanta on the Bank, ever eaw ao splendid a feaat ob this. One need only suggest its material nature— the chicken, wild duck, plover, ham, tongue, salad, mayonnaiae, partridge, jelly, cream, ice cake, peaehes, grapes, peara, pluma, bananaa, pineapples, and other thmga whicn go to make a princely Feed in the mouth of September r oce need only hint at the Champagne and the tall red bottle and the short Square bottle and the flask in baaket-work. But the Hel- ling forth of theae good things ! That indeed waa the glory lind the Triumph of the Feaat. Only to eontemplate the inount- THE HONOUR OF THE FAMILY 313 ing, 10 to Bpeak, of the pieco brought teure to Flavia'a eyea and woiild have brought pride unutterable to Cornelia but für ose thing. It ia only yonr old families who have taken root in one spot and lived there for a hundred years at least, who can do this kind of thing properly. Of coutbo, you can get things — stage things — propertiea — platei things, from the Confectioner. But there are things which no Confectioner can find even in imita- tion or plate. This family poasesaed, bosidea a Best Bedroom, a Beet China Service. Its existence was well known : it lay in a certain closot whcro for forty vears and more, einco in fact the Christening of Lucius, it had lain wrapped and covered over with napkina. New it was produced. Tlio girla aaw it for tbe first time : a service in pink and gold : cliicken and ham lay in the long dishee : peaa and beans and potatoes were aerved in the vegetable dishea : ita aacred platee were plaeed at every eover. There was also, in the same cloeet, the family plate — a ehest containing epoone and forka of real ailver,fuot trumpery plate. These came forth after long dieuae, and were beheld by the family for the first time. They were unfortunately a good deal wora, because the first Acadeinidan loved Eplendoux and used these things every day in reckless fashion. There was also, still from the same cloeet, a Service of fine linen, table cloth and napkins, of aplendour so dazzling that every one's heart was up- lifted with pride. In the centre of the table waa the punch- bowl fillcd with ieed claret cup, the silver ladle swimming on the surface ; the silver candlesticka lighted the feast. When Lucius atood at his place and surveyed the table beforo he took his seat, he feit that now for the first time he realised tbe reepeetability of the family of which he was the Head. He pronounoed a benediction of the ancient kind, which had been used in the family in the daya of fatness on those great oc- casions which formeriy had been raore frequent. It was not the hurried formula which aervea very well for cold boiled mutton, bat a Frayer before a good FeetL His Bieters remembered it and aeknowledged the fltness of the occasion, Tlien he Bat down and looked about him with cheerful eyea. On his right, in the post of honour, sat hia newly recovered oousin, Florry. She was agitated : the greatness of the welcome made her colour come and go. With this suffusion and her soft eyea which lifted shyly and drooped again, her ahapely head and. her still abundant hair, ehe looked far younger than her cousins. And in her dainty dreaa and the way she wore it, thera ahowed the girl as ehe was remembered. Her nephew sat next to her grave and anxioua. From time to time she took his hand beueath the table and beld it as if for ptotect.ii, Opposite sat Cornelia in her Sunday black, lese rusty than the 314 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S week-day wear : her face was set Bevere. Even the aight of the Best Service ooultl hardly make her amile. Nest to Cornelia eat Mr. Indagine, and Claudia next. The young people, includ- ing the Chevalier, filled the lower and of the table. Ah the banquet proceeded, everybody looked happy except Cornelia and her cousin Florry. The one grew harder to look at, and the other more agitated and trombling. Lucius, with knagination free, saw hunself once more hononrably placed npc the Higher Branch. Caaaie aeeraed toforget for theevening tu feitbless and wortblesa lover — -indecd, thero needed but Separa- tion and chatige to make her forget him ahogether. Claudia was no longer the Prophetesa., but tho aister of the House. In bis place at the Head, Lucius surpassed the higheat expectation that could have. been formed of him, though bis experience of Banqueta was scanty indced. In rocollectiou of Bome feativity long ago whilo his grandfather was still living, and in imitation of that venerable scholar, he invited everyone in turn to take wina with tiim : on the former occasion the puncbbowl contained a more generous potation than iced claret onp — but there waa Champagne. And while he drank he talked continually, now to his cousin, now to Claudia, and now to the table, so that the othera preeently disregarded him, and there arose a susurrus or gentle murmur of talk like the washing of the rising tide among the pebblea. 1 This is an occasion,' he said, ' over which my father would have rejoiced. Perhaps — nay, we ahould not doubt it— he ia looking down from aoinewhere which commanda a view. We must not BUppoae that whem we go away from this world we carry with us no furtber interest in thoae we love. That were a poor and low eatimate of human love. He rejoicea to aeo na welcome thia evening a couain from across the aea — whoae feet have been upon Antipodean ahorea — the son of one whom we have often welcomed beneath thia roof at Sunday tea — one whoae husbaud has been ennobled, raised to au eitalted rank, by special com in and of Her Majcsty the Queen. We welcome another cousin who has been sepnrated from ua for years too a to oonnt. She haa come back to us and we shall ;ht of her again, unleas ahe joioa her ladyship acroes snaps, 'her Iinan: uot I '] Richard, travelkd in hopa. He had a large c North of England.' Florry eoloured deeply and hung her bead and caught Laurence by the hand. He began to wish that he had not invited his aunt to this banquet. Corneha'a manner warned him of rocks ahead. 1 Wherever you have been, my dear cousin,' Luciua con- whose immo: THE HOAOtfß OF THE FAMILY tinued, ' it is pleasant to find tbat you have not forgotten your a with this honourable and highly esteemod family.' Bichard,' Cornelia centinued, ' was not, hiruself, so honourably connected. But he was justly eateemed.' Florry inclined her head and gasped. 1 Ton eat nothing, my dear Auut,' said Laurence. ' I cannot eat, my dear,' she wbiepered, ' I am eboking, Oh 1 will ahe never stop 1 ' ' Florry,' Corneha went on, ' you will go ont to Lucy — to Lady Lucy — to Lady Waller, yonx Bieter. To me, I confess, ehe is alwaya Lucy, and I cannot of coiiree forget the old days when ehe was a daily dressinaker and glad to got it, and you were in ' Cousin Cornelia,' said Laurence, with the umile whieh hidos admonition, ' the day of small thinga may be remembered — indeed, it is the one thing whieb. is always remembered — but we do not want to tali about it when we are rejoieing in the day of succesa, do we ? Let us for a moment forget the daily dress- maker and the trimmin gB.' 1 Lucy has gone np,' Cornelia replied, *bnt I remain where I was. I suppose I cannot be eipected to pretend tbat I have gone up. I was in tbe Church when ehe went away, and I am in the Church still. But of course it is your supper, Laurence, and you have a perfect right to rebuke your eiders.' 'My dear cousin,' Baid Laurence, again smiling, but with grave eyes, ' I was only ansious not to have memories revived D hieh migbt be unpleasing.' ' I was going to Bay,' Cornelia esplained coldly, ' that when my couain Florry goes to her Bister ehe will naturally have a good deal to teil her about her huaband — who travelled in hopa.' Claudia looked round. She saw her Bister nodding at Florry in a meaning manner and observed a look of admonition in her face. She also saw that Florry was visibly distressed and that Laurence was anxious. These things made her watchful. ' We have also,' — it was again the voiee of Lucius and he was enjoying the sound of it as much as if be had been Chairman in a Lodge of the Ancient and Honourable Order of Antediluvian Buflaloes. ' We have also to welcome among ua tbis evening one who has longshedlustreupori the Bank for his distinguished servicea in the cause of Freedom, even though Freedom for the time had to — to knock under. It was Freedom, as the Poet Campbell Baid, who shiieked when the Chevalier feil, Happily, be got up again. Chevalier, I drink to you. Let üb all drink to the Chevalier. We are indeed proud to think that one of this house is about to contract an Alliance with a hero of Freedom, whose esploits will eertaüily oceupy a page — or half a page — of lortal history. The Chevalier,' Lucius explained, as if th» 316 THE BELL OF ST. PAUL'S circumstance" tunst be mosl gratify mg to a soldier, ' bas nin away from four pitclied battloa.' The Chevalier, who in his new clothes really looked the very cleanest, neatest, and best grooincd old gentleinan in the World, bowed gravely to Lucius, and tuining to Flavia raised her band and kisaed her fingers. The girl reddened with pleasure and Eride: her eyea softened; tha demurity went out of her face: er nose grew smaller : her Ups curved in the most lovely and most gracious smile ; she looked like her sister, or like Claudia : or like Florry— bo great is the power of Love in the improvement of a girl's looks. If it were not for that most nnfortunate arrangoinent of natnre which takea aivay a woman'a beauty at an age varying from twenty-five to forty-five, I am convinced that one might turn tho plaineat damsel into a Helen of Troy only by subjecting her to a course of bappy and devoted love. That is to aay, ehe muat be loved as much aa aho muat love : and the double event, aecording to the Fronen Proverb, doea not always come off. 1 Althea,' Laurence whispered, ' will you tnke nie out once more, alone, in your boat ? 1 If you would like it,' ehe replied, with a consciona blush. ' To-morrow, in the evening, if the day is bright, I want one more sunaet on the river. You came to nie, Althea, out of the Snnset.' Thifl from a young man who had, as yet, said not one word of love. Bot they nnderstood. ' Yon were a goddess, you know, clothed in golden and crim- aon vapoura. Can I ever forget how you floated down atraight out of Heayen?" ' Oh ! ' she murmured. ? Ton mnst not talk like that.' ' There is money in hops,' said Cornelia, fixing her oold eyes again upon poor Florry. 'Lota of money 1 Lota of money I ' said Laurence, quickly. ' A glasa of wine with you, Mr. Indagine ' — the recollection of his grandfather'a Btately politc-ncas madu Lucius the most atten- tive of hosta. ' It is delightful to think that yon ara with us — you and Althea — on such an occasion ae thia. Althea, my dear child, a glasa of wine with you. Fi 11 her glasa, Laurence. Let it be Champagne, the wine that looseuB girls' tonguea and makes their cheeks glow.' Heavena I How did Lucius acijuire the Anacreontio vein? 'Your health, Althea 1 Mr. Indagine, to you I It haa beeu our happy lot, Sir, to converse almost daily, when the length of day permits. upon the Bank. We have added a chapter to the Literary History of London. AsBoswell is remembered by his friendship for Dr. Johnson, bo Bhall I, perhaps, go down to postenty as the bnvver who hghtened the conversatioa hours of the Poet.' THE HONOÜR OF THE FAMILY 317 'Ton shall, my feiend,' said Mr. Indagine, much moyed, and perhaps jierfusu» mero, warmed with wnaecustomed wine, ' you shall. Ah soon aa my poema are ready for publication, I shall liegin my sutobiography. The chapter 011 my aecond Feriod — that of Seolusion — will mainly dwell on the development of the eecluded poet. But they will also contain nmny delightful reminiaeencea of yonraelf and yoni charming family, of whom I shall ever retain a inoat pleaaing recolketion.' Could anything be grander ? I Caaaie,' Felix whiapered, ' yotl ara going ont with Lanrenee, So am I ; so is Sempronius ; I bslieve everybody ia going ont. It'a aplendid! I'm to go up conntry toSir David's cattle Station to kam the buaineaa. What are you going to do ? ' I I don't know.' ' No more photographa, I reckon. And, I say, Caaaie, you've forgoiten that little black beast and furger. You can't (hink about bim any more afler all that'a come out. You'll let aoother fellow have a chance, won't you ? ' ' Don't, Felix.' ' We could have wished,' Lucius continued, ' that the Doctor had been with ns. We eeem incomplete without the Doctor. Late eventa — moat aurprising and distreaaing eventa — have ahaken bim. He excused himself. Bejoioing, he said, was not in hia way juat at preaent. Let us say no more about thia un- happy buaineaa. Felix, my dear boy, a glaaa of wine with you I When do you start for Australia ? ' 1 In hopa '—Cornelia again fixod aearching and admonishing eyes upon her cousiii — 'in hopB money may be lost as well aa made. Your Kichard, I believe, lost hia alL' ' Never mind family misfortunes just now," said Lanrence, again interfering. ' Thia will be our last gathering under the old Boof,' Lucius -went on. ' I kept this communication for the last. Chiliiren, I have to teil you that wo are going to part with the Honae. Yes — an old house, like a Title, holds a family together. When we giva up Bank Side we are dispersed : we shall be like the Ten Tribes, who are scattered over the wbole World and lost. The femily will be dispersed and perhapa loat. Futnre ngea will ask where are the deacendanta of Vi-cesimns Cottle. Like Shake- speare, he will seem, perhapa, to have left nonc. I bave been offered a good anm of money for the place, which ia to be tumed into an offlee. When we go, the last of the private families of the Bank will have dieappearod, and at evening it will be left silent, with the scrap-iron and the broken glass. The Academy will be finally extingnished. As for me, I have taken conneel with Laurence, and 1 have oome to the serions resolution of going with hiin to this new world of the South. In my forty- aha] she 318 THE BELL OF ST. PAUVS aiith yaar I shall become an Emigrant. The word Emigrant,' he added, reflectively, ' haa always suggeated to me a family aittmg i'iü their boxes and tea-keülea, crying. Laurence, how- aver, teils me that we shall not einigrate esactly in that ' He'a going, too,' Said Felir, ' We are all going ; I told yon ' Laurence asawes me tliat an intimate acqnaintance with the practica of the Higher Branch will command a — a plane, though the dignified custom of the Guarantee does not perhapa prevail. Well, ohildren, all ia determined. Flaviaand the Chevalier will live with Claudia. Cornelia will take oare of the Best China, the Plate, the Punchbowl, and the Booka until wo can have. thein aent out. Perhapa ehe will heraelf bring tbem out.' 1 No,' aaid Cornelia, ' my place ia in the Cnurah." 1 She won't givo up tho Body,' Fehs whispered. ' The only thing that troubles me," said Lucius—' Mr. Inda- gina, another glasa of wine with you I Althea, my dear — no inore wine ?— the only thing ia that our friends will be left behind. Cassie, how shall we get on at all without Althea f ' ' It is for na aa wall,' aaid the Poet, ' to make confeaaion. I, too, am going out. Yes. No public announcement of this impending ehange haa becn mado, and I confcaa that I do not like to tbink of what Fleet Stre et will say. But I clearly under- stand that it ia the beat thing I can do. I have gona back to the world. I have prepared my new volume of poems. Bat the old lifo haa become impoeaible to me. And as for the new life, I cannot begin afreah. London haa grown too big. It waa alwaya a terrible place to me, and now it has become much rnore terrible. The wita have loft their old haunta and have gona to cluba. Laurence has tasken me to his clnb, and I confess that I found the atmosphere cold when I remembered the taverna. I have been reading new booka, and I find another school of poetry, which I hardly understand. Their metres are atrange, and there ia a desterity — aometimea I wonder at my own popularity, and I donbt whether my new book will succeed. If you all go away and leava me, what ahould I do ? 80 I, too, am going with you. I have taken eomisel with Laurence. Ha loves my talk, and I hia Booiety. After the last three months I could not, indeed, get along without him. Althea consents to go, and my young friend ahall continue to enjoy my conver- eation.' Althea bluahed because Claudia Emiled. 1 Oh I ' whiapered Cassie, ' we ahail all go together, and wo shall not be parted, Althea. But I knew very well, all along,' she added in a iower voiee. It will be lonely when you are all gona,' said Claudia. ' I THE HONOUR OF THE FAMILY 319 have been parted from you, bnt in epirit I was alwaya with you, Felix told me everything. Well, I cannot leave my poople, and I shall have Fla via.' 'It has alwaya been lonely for me in the Churcli,' aaid Cornelia. ' Nobody ever oomes meide the Chnrch, and I have not hing eise to do than to thiuk. I ahall think '— I do notknow whether thia waB malignity or atupidity — ' how Florry ia laugh- ing and ainging with you, quite as ahe used to do when ehe waa a girl. My husbaad, aa everybody knowa, waa only a verger, and her Bichard travelled in hopa. 2'm a widow, and thankful for my preaent place. Florry's a widow going to live in the lap of lusury with my Lady Lucy " Florry sprang to her feet. ' Let me go I Let me go 1 ' sha cried, as Laurenee caught her hand. ' Let me go 1 ' and rushed out of the room. 'Cousin' — but Florry was already out of the room — "re- member I ' Cornelia Bank back white and terrined. 'You have been too mnch for her, siater,' aaid Clandia, "with harping upon her huaband. She'a nervous to-day— I've been wetehing her. She's sbaking all over, and ahe didn't take any supper. But ehe waa alwaya a amall eater. She will come back preaently, when ahe has had her ory. It was Florry'a way when ahe waa a tittle girl to bnrat into tears and go away tili she could leave off. We are all three widowa, Cornelia, and I for one shouldn't like to be talked to about my poor Laverock. Let ns wn.it. Sit down, Laurenee, ahe is only gone to have a good cry.' ' She promised, faithfu], that ahe would rcmeinhei',' Conieha murmured. 'Poor Florryl ' Claudia went on. * Wfao knowa what her life may have been 1 Yet she loois almoat too young. Some- thing ia going to happeti when a wonmn of fifty looks like a girl of twenty. Siater Priscilln, who died the week before laat at eighty, looked a girl again half an honr before ahe died. Some of the brethren said it was because she was already permitted to put on the face of an angel ; but perhaps not, becanse she looked old again in the coffin. Florry's face reminded me of old times. Go on talking, Luciua. Florry will aoon come back again. And leave off about her Eichard, Cornelia — and — obl good gracioua, what is thia ? ' Florry had retumed. She stood before tlicm, again, but changed, She had torn off her bluek ailk diesa and I know not what beside, and now atood before them dreased again in her old duds — the stuff frock, wenther-atained, torn, ragged : the msty jaeket with open seams: and in her hand, daugling, the ddest and most miaahapen head-covering that waa evcr aeen. And alaa ! her face was no longer young ; the blooin had lefl 32o THE BELL OF ST. PAULS her cheek again ; sbe was -wan and thin : she lifted her eyeB, but they were filled with despair. ' Florry 1 ' oried Cornelia, ' how dare yon ? How dare yon ? Ehe oould eay no more. ' I have no right to be here,' said Florry. ' Forgive me, all of you, for Bitting among yon. I have no rejrht, Laurenoe [ Oh ! yon kind — good — boy. No— no— don't touch me— -don't dare to touoh me— Lucy'B aon — oh I happy Lucy ! Give her my tender luve. Ohl what will she Gare for any message from me when Ehe knows ? ' 1 Remeinber ! Ohl remember, Florry,' cried Cornelia. ' I have remembered.' She sank npon her kneee before them all. ' I am what yon have often oalled me, Cornelia— I am the Disgrace to the Family. I have never had a husband. All that Cornelia made up about me was falsa. Forgive me. I wdl never trouble anybody any more. Forgive me.' She rose quickly, and was gone. Before they understood what ehe had eaid — what it nneant — she diaappeared. Thns ended Ulis most splendid Banqnet. * Oh I ' Cornelia snapped her Ups with wrath irrepressible. ' She promised, faithful. And we've alwaya been so respect- The firat to recover waa Lanrence, who, while the reat were etill staring in amazement, liurried out after the fugitive. The boy Sempromus followed itim. A moment later ho returnod with whito face. 1 She'e jtimped into the ri vor 1 ' he oried. ' I eaw her Jump, and he'e jumped after her, and the lido'a running out atrong.' Yes. Laurence was just in time to see her spring npon the low wooden wall and hurl herseif headlong into the blackwaterg below. He leaped upon the wall, aaw her, a blaok lump, rolled abont in the tumbling hurrying waters. A atrong ebb tide was tea.ring and dragging the water down stream : at the spotwhere the woman jumped in there were no barges : tho ourrent eaught her and rolled her over and over. Whatever air was in her clothing kept her from sinking. Was she nnconscious ? Did she feel in those brief momente the horror of violont death ? Did the oold water awaken her aenses, or did it dull them 1 Did she see— as some have reported who have gone through the first stages of drowning— the whole of her past life revealed to henkt a singleglanee with tho oonscions. ness that nothing ever diea ? Laurence saw and leaped after hei. Oh 1 Lucy, sitting in the verandah of the Sydney home, did no thoüght of the peril of tfav eon and thy sister distorb the peu.ce of thy bouI ? Tet, bat for. woi THE HONOVR OF THE FAMILY 321 thing, they wonldnow be lying in their gravea, and thoa wouldst still go in aorrow to thy last day. ' She'B jumped into the river t ' cried tlie boy, ' and he's jnmped after her.' Theo Althea ran Bwiftly and caught the light sculls of her Bkiff from where they stootl in tha n&rrow hall, and rushed down the Bank Side stairs, and befoie they knew what ahe was doing, ehe had untied the painter and east off the boat. Sbe looked across and down the river while her boat was dragged out and hnrried down by tha onrrent, The water looked black : there was a Utile light above froin the atairs, and lights from the bridge were reflected on the river. Then she made out the black rolling lump — whioh must be Florry. And then ahe saw another and a emaller lump — only a moving spot in the water — tbat must be the awimmer. And then ehe sat down, put out her sculls and pullod with all the strength that her twenty yeara and her long practice on the river ha i given her. With strong arma and swift strokes she rowed, and the boat gainad npen the awimmer and the swiunner gained npon the drownlng ' I am coming, Laurence ! ' aha eried, preaently. ' Laurence, I am Coming I Keepup- — keep up, I am Coming ! ' But Laurence heard nothing. She said no more, but pulled as never woman pnlled before. Wnen ahe reached them, Laurence was swimming beaide tha floatine form, wondering how on earth he could tow or drag ii aahore oefore the woman was drowned. For she lay npon her face, and her head and arma were under water. ' I am here, Laurence 1 ' cried a voice — oh I how welcome I — oloae beeide tum. ' I am here. Quick I one hand on the acull and the other ander her head. Hold the scull tight. I am quite atrong.' 1 Tum her bow a bit — so — one stroke more. Now I have her. I cannot lifl her, Althea" — he had one hand on the acull and the other on Florry's jacket eleeve — 'but I have got her tight, and ehe doesn't Beem to be sinking. Ship the other scull. Lean over the bowa. I can pnll her along the senil — thia way — so — ^atch her by the collar and hold her tight. Have you got her ? ' 1 Yea — yes — I have her tight. The water rolled her over — I can lift her face out— ahe is not heavy. Can you get into the boat ? Try to olimb over the atern.' Laurence passed hia handa along the gunwale and olimbed over the stera — not an easy thing to do when oneis encumberel with wet clothea. Take off your wet coat, 1 aaid Althea. ' Now take the Bcnlla pull us back as fast as you can. A little more in ahoro so aa 333 THE BELL OF ST. PÄUL'S to get ont of thia dreedful cumnt. What a long way we have ooaie down the river I Ko, don't miuJ me, she is not heavy, bnt oh I I think ehe ia dead. l'nor womsn ! Poor crealure I I did not know her in her pretty dress. I reinembered her wbec ehe appeared in thoue poor raga of hera. Oh ! Low aha mos) have snffered I Oh ! poor c reu ture — poor oreatnre I ' Laurenee said nothing, bat pulied with all hie might. 'Bhe neither moves nor KTjeaks,' Althea went on. ' If had ouly got her oa shore agedn ! Her face ia quito white a her eyes are cloeed, and oh 1 the cold wator dashea over b Lanrence, do you think we k1ih.I1 anve her ? There are the orai of Bank Side ; I can see thetn now. You oan go a li tue closer. to the Bank. Now — oh t Lore are the etaira, and all of them crowded on the walL' It was another arm which lifted the eenseleas form from ont of the water — it was the atrong Felix, not Laurenee, who carried her np the stairs and acroaa the road and laid her on the bed, whüa Claudia bent over her and tried to bring back the bouI which seemed to have flcd. 1 Althea,' said Laurenee, ' yon brought me back to life a week I had only juat begun to underetand the joy of livicg, and if you have eaved me ag&in. You youJ n quickly,' the replied, ' and change your thinga." They all trooped back to the honae, where Cornelia Bat in hei acc ustomed place, her handa in her lap : on her eheeka a spot of red which marked her wrath and fihanie: and her Ups were working, bitt what ehe aaid to herself I know not. ' She hae been bronght back,' aaid Lucina, Cornelia toaaed her head. ' She ia Benseleae — we fear that she ia dead.' ' She ahould have died long ogo,' aaid Cornelia. Florry opened her eyea a quarter of an hour later, after the moat prodigioua eiertiona of Dr. Luttrel. She was lying in bed, and at the bedside were Claudia and the three girla. ' My dear," aaid Claudia, ' don't ask any questiona. Yon are in the old houae — yon are in the Best Bed. 1 ' I thonght— I thuught ' Freaently ehe waa so l'ar recovered that ehe conld listen and perhaps nnderstand aomuihing of what was said. A etrange reatfnlneBB feil upon her apirit. The words of Claudia dropped upon her esra like mueic, and her aoft careaaing voiee aooihed her ae if to sleep though ehe rema-bied broad awake. ' Florry, deax ' — the voiee reniinded her of the wavee playing about her head — 'now we understand it all — poverty and außer- ing and all. My dear, we know all that we need ever know. You have auflered — oh I my dear, yon have suffered, how mnoh you have suffered I All the miaery in the world scems sometimes heaped upon one peraon. That we cannot Widerstand. Ynn Bhall not go trat to your aister, my dear. You would be unhappy bscause you would be ashameil. You shall riotbave to make up Lea and live in daily terror. Lucy would forgive, but you would never forget. You Bhall not go to her. There ig oaly one place where you oan go. My dear, long ago I found peaoe and rest in the Communion of the Early Church. It is among the brathren that you shall live. Thare we are all brothers and Bieters Fililie. It ia Love that rulea. us. Where there is Love there is no room for forgiveness. If any sin, we love him still, though he Continus in sin. But Love casteth out ain. No one can reaist Love. If any are repentant, Love dries their teara and warms their heart : if any wonld forget the sbame of th« past, Love dropa a veil which hidea it. Love cannot gibe ; Love cannot tnock : Love cnnnot upbraid. Love ia tendor: Love thinketh alwaya of the othor and never of himself.' She clasped her handa, her chceks glowed and she raised her eyea, She was now the Prophet« ss of Lore and Meroy. 'You ahall live with me, Florry. We ought never to have let yon go. But we were youngar then and ignomnt. Do not auswar, dear. Shnt your eyea and slaep. When von awake, remember that henceforth there ahall be no ahame for you, or reproaob. If you aorrow ov repent, that ts between the Lord and youraelf. Yet we may help. With us there ia nothing— nothing — but Love — Heavenly Love — tnie and unselfish and ahiding. Tbis ia the kiss, ruy dear, of BrotherhooiL You are now one of iib." Florry olosed her eyes and went to sleep obedient like s ohild. Claudia remained to watch. But the girls went down atairs, tearful and ailent. Below, Laurence walkad baekwarda and forwards. It was midnight but no one though t of bed. 1 She is quiet and sleeping,' said Althea. 'We may all go now. Come, father.' ' We had the best China,' said Cornelia, her handkerohief to her eyes, ' and the Plate brought out. She promiaed me faith- ful. No — Lucius, no, I cari not forgive her, and it'a no uae pre- tending. And now, aiter all, she's had the Beat Bed and Claudia prophesying over her. No, brother, no. I oan't do it, I kno w my duty to the Family, if you don'fc, and I can't,' THE BELL OF ST. PAULS CHAPTER XXXIII. THE tNLi. 'ArlaEtl ' eaid Lanreiice. He was alone with Althea nnd in the midatreom rowing np the broad river on the flow of the tide. The wann September nun was flloping to the west, trat still the City on either band Inj basking in the warmth and light. ' We must take to Australia with us,' he Said, ' and never forget, this picture of the river in the evening glow.' ' Ab if I ever oonld forget the river,' said Althea. He rowed on in silence past Waterloo Bridge, paat "Wert- minater, past Vawhall, Opposite Battersea Park he stopped and looked abont liim. He had brought Althea to the very Barne place where the; firat had a talk. 8he very well under- stood why, • It was on a moming in June," he said, ' that yon brought me here. I remember etery moniont of that morning. Have yon forgotteu it f ' 1 No,' she replied softjy. 1 Only three months ago. I came home for a simple boliday. I was going to see everythiiig liefere I wect out agam. I came to Bank Side just to amuse raysclf. I thought I woold write a letter home about my remajkable cousina, and then go away and forget them all. To forget them 1 That was my thought. You were among them. I was to go away and forget you all.' Althea made no reply. ' That morning in June — he went back agam to that morning. 'I remember the fresh breeze, the flying shadows and the sparkling water. You showed me all the places on the Bank as we rowed np. Yonr nind wae so füll of them ; you were so eager that I should miss nothing r you talked as if they were all your own property— and you were so beautiful, Althea — Oh I— yon were so beautiful that I was alniost earried out of myself." The leere oame into Althoa's oyes — I know not why. ' And then while we drifted here you feil into silence. and I eaw that your eyee were looking far away— and you had fallen into a dream. Do you eonue here still to dream and eee ghosts — Lord Bolingbroke and Addison on this bank, and on that Bir Francis Mure, and on the river tho Btately bargea with the physicians and their great periwigs ? ' THE END ' No,' aaid Althea, ' I aee no uiore ghoata. Thoy havo all vanished — my poor ghoata— evor aiiiuo wo have boen tnlmn mit of out aeolusion and eetm Üiu livii ig world. Kineo you onme,' ehe added. In every tale of true love ther« Cornea n. mouiont — Um 0110 fitting moment — tbe auprenie momeiU of the wooiiig wheu tho last word ahould be apoken luni tbe luv er» shutild füll into cnoli other's arma. If it is delayed, it ia like letting a bottlo of Champagne atnnd after the cork Juib beeil Irvlimi oiil. Homethiug ia lost — a little of the sparkle, a touch of rapturo, a Utile of tho liie — avery minute. On the other band, if tbe word in hurriml and apoken too aoon, ther ia unoortainty witli doubt und aniiety. The true joy of Love is olouded. Üb I Llmt young men wotild therefore ponder thesa thinga I And Boeing tbat ii ia oiily oueo in a man's life — unleas he be a llover — tuat thia joy ooii be experienced, ia it not a, thouaand nitiea thnt it in lu) often miaerably spoiled by being ruebed, or lamentably tuiido etale with delay ? Perhape tbe maidena should look to it ! the golden opportunity ahould nevor be grantod ntitil thoy are perfectly eure of their own inind» and the tuiiid of tho young Althea knew notbing of Love axcept as a aweet und bmiutiful extravagance invented by poeta for tho purpuae of weiivitiu lovely veraas and aweet concoita and musio that ahould nti'»l over the aenaes and hold them prisoner. It lind been an unroal thing. Ab for the thing callod Love — tbe Art of Love — why äoes no modern poet wnte a new Art of Love ? — the Prinoipl« of Attraction, the Nature of Selection, and bo fortb, abe ander- etood no more than ehe undoratood the art of Flirtation. Poots, j-iin see, are generally vague even when they nro lnoat snlendid. Now she knew something — Love was no longer an unroni thing : it seemed to her, aa indeed it ia, a inoBt divino gifl beatowud by Ilesven lipon all mankind, and like all the gifte of Heavan, proportioned to the capacity of eacli, so tbat with one it is of tbe e&rth, earthy; und with the other — bnt thin ia too high for OB. With all her ignoranco Althea knew that thia duy her lover wonld üjicftl: to her and ahe wonld give herself to hin]. ' The ghoBta are gono,' he repeated, ' and tbe living worldjs with you at last. Tbere shoald ba one ghost loft. Althea. for you all his life. to be your faitbful nervant alwaya and yow lover alwaya ? Teil ine, Althea, do you novor see tbat gboat ? ' ' Tea,' she replied with her awoot frankneaa, whieh went to her lover'e heart more awiftly than tbe most artful wiles, ' I fesl his preaence always. Bat only,' abe mnrmured— ' only for tba l&Bt feW duy;.' $16 THE BELL OF ST. PÄUL'S SlionM he at th.it momen have apoken tke lest word f Burely there wanted no more. 1 1 muat cnnfess to you, Althea,' he Bald with an effort, ' I oaanot speak what is in my heart until I bave made confeesion. Tour fathor thinks that I oame from Australia to gazeupon him. He is quite mistaken. He neeumed it. I bave never known why, but I did not undeeoive him, and whon once I had left i( in hia uiind it became impoeaible to undeceive him. It mad« bim ao happy to think that hia veraea wäre read everywhere — and it made you, too, bo happy, that I encouraged him to believ« it. I went further — I wrote a resiew and printed a sheet like tlie inaide sheet of the Saturda/y Review wluch carried on the deeeption. And then he walked with you down Fleet Streofc. Tho poople talked about the Poet— he took it for himeelf. The Poet is the nick-name of a Pilze- flghter.' ' I know. Felis told me. They were shouting the niok-nama of a prize-fighter, and we were bo simple aa to believe ' I Kay, it pleased him. Why not ? He ahall never be un- deoeived." ' I know more than yon think,' eaid Althea. ' The Saiurday Review article, I have learned, was never in the paper, becausa I bought a oopy with the date. Ih it all pretence 7 Has my poor father no readera — no fn.me at all ? ' 'None, Althea, none. Hia vblume feil Hat and dead. He haa no readera. He ia absolntüly unknown.' ? My poor (ather I ' ? He will go with ua : he will live in onr qniet eonntry : onr friends will know that he is a poetand haa published poetry ; hia new volume will oome ont, and he Bhall never be undeeeived. Althea, it was for your Baku that I oonferred tbiu iniagined happineaa npon him.' I I know — I know.' ' And he will have yon with him, Althea — and — and he ahall have me with him, too, hia faithful disoiple, if you will suffer me to be with you always — alwayfl. Oh I my dear — my dear ' Hia voiee broke. That was all he said. Not tili afterward» did he teil her how mnch he loved her. He only took both her hiinÜH and drew her gently and ki.saed her on the lips, twice. In the evening the poor girl reflected that thia thing was aclually done in an open boat, in broad daylight, and in the middle of the river; it was aotualiy visible from the Chehea Embankment: from the housea behind it : from the long walk of Battersea Park : and from two bridges. She turned very red only to thinfr of it. So very red that ehe looked more boautiful than ever, and if her lover had been there to> see, he muat have kissed her again. I wonder if any aotualiy witoessed the deed. There was a belated nureemaid in the Park who ought to have been houie für THE END 327 tea long before, with her peramnulator and the two babiea. There was a Poüceman looking over Cbelaea Bridge, bnt a Policeman regardeth not b kisa any more than Behemoth regardeth a daffodil : and there waa a houaeniaid lonking out of b top window of Cheyne Walk. But if they saw it I know not. The boat drifted slowly with the stream, the water plashed melodioualy lipon her bows and rippled along her sidea. Laurcnce Bat with the girl's hands in Mb, murmnxing things Bweet and fooliah. Of moat things fooliah there comuth repeut- anoe in tho end, and of moat thinga aweet there cometh satiety : bat never dotb there corne repentance or aatiety for the aweet »ad fooliah thinga of love. Aa for what the yonng man called hia niistrees, bow he wliispered of her beauty and her aweettiesB, and her graee — to Althea henself theae worda seemed fax lo anrpaaa the irioat beautifi.il things that had ever been written hy the most divine poet. Whioh ahowa that everybody who ia really in love becomes the finest poet in the World to the Imagina- tion of bis eweetheart, and einoe only imagination is real, thia ia hard reality. For thongh the words of tho poot be ao rueloilioiia »ml so eraftily interwoven with rhymea that ring like bells and B meaaured muaia which brings tears to the eyes, or joy to the Soul, or danciog to the feet, they lack the muaio of the voice, the beatüig of the heart, the wamith of the hand, and the longing of the eye». Presently he remembered something, and letting her hands go he drew a packet out of hia pocket and opened it, emiling. 'Youchoae them yourself, Althea. Give ms your flnger, the third finger of your loft hand. Thia ia the magio ring '. I am the slave of the ring : and thia bracelet is a part of the chain which binde me : and the neoklace is the tribu te and token of tuy »Uegiancfl — my dear— what oan make yon look more beantiful ? ' By thia time the snn waa BJnking low. ?You came to me, Althea,' he said, ' ont of the' sauset. Yon were in a magio bark, wrapped in a nmgio glow of golden red and purple, auch aa never before shone upon mortal watoher. OhI my dear, can I ever forget it? You came etraight froni Heaven'B gate— I thought it tben — I know it now — cau I ever aonbt that ? You were Bent to me. And now in the light of the annaet you come to my arma. Oh 1 my love I my love 1 " On the Bank, ao fine waa the evening, they were all gathered together. ' Yon will all go,' aaid the Doctor, aadiy. ' I ahall remain behind. Urge me no more, Clement. I have given my life to theae people, and I mnat apcnd aniong them what retuaina. I aon, but hfi ia gone. I had a dream,but (hat has goue too. all that remaina — to Work omoug theae pour.' 